[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. You should consider the following risk factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase any of our securities.. The markets in which we operate can be cyclical, and downturns in them may adversely affect the results of our operations.. Some of the markets in which we operate have been, to varying degrees, cyclical and have experienced downturns. A downturn in these markets could occur at any time as a result of events that are industry specific or macroeconomic and in the event of a downturn; we have no way of knowing if, when and to what extent there might be a recovery. Any deterioration in any of the cyclical markets we serve could adversely affect our financial performance and operating results.. At December 31, 2017, Airbus and Boeing had a combined backlog of 13,129 aircraft or nearly nine years of production at 2017 delivery rates. To the extent any significant deferrals, cancellations or reduction in demand results in decreased aircraft build rates, it would reduce net sales for our Commercial Aerospace products and as a result reduce our operating income. Approximately 72% of our net sales for 2017 were derived from sales to the Commercial Aerospace industry, which includes 89% from Airbus and Boeing aircraft and 11% from regional and business aircraft. Reductions in demand for commercial aircraft or a delay in deliveries could. 10. result from many factors, including delays in the startup or ramp-up of new programs, changes in the propensity for the general public to travel by air (including as a result of terrorist events and any subsequent military response), a significant change in the cost of aviation fuel, a change in technology resulting in the use of alternative materials, consolidation and liquidation of airlines, availability of funding for new aircraft purchases or leases, inventory corrections or disruptions throughout the supply chain and slower macroeconomic growth.. Our content on the A350 is approximately $4.8 million per plane and it is our largest program. We expect sales of approximately $575 million per year when Airbus reaches its projected buildrates of 120 per year. Both Airbus and Boeing have experienced various delays in the start and ramp up of several aircraft programs, including the A380, B787, B747-8, A400M, and A350. In the past, these have delayed our expected growth or our effective utilization of capacity installed for such growth. Future delays in these or other major new customer programs could similarly impact our results.. In addition, our customers continue to emphasize the need for cost reduction or other improvements in contract terms throughout the supply chain. In response to these pressures, we may be required to accept increased risk or face the prospects of margin compression on some products in the future. Where possible, we seek to offset or mitigate the impact of such pressures through productivity and performance improvements, index clauses, currency hedging and other actions.. A significant decline in business with Airbus, Boeing, Vestas, or other large customers could materially impact our business, operating results, prospects and financial condition.. We have concentrated customers in the Commercial Aerospace and wind energy markets. In the Commercial Aerospace market, approximately 89%, and in the Space & Defense market, approximately 31%, of our 2017 net sales were made to Airbus and Boeing and their related subcontractors. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, approximately 44% and 41% of our total consolidated net sales, respectively, were to Airbus, and its related subcontractors and approximately 25% and 28% of our total consolidated net sales were to Boeing and its related subcontractors, respectively. In the wind energy market, our primary customer is Vestas. Significant changes in the demand for our customers' end products, program delays, the share of their requirements that is awarded to us or changes in the design or materials used to construct their products could result in a significant loss of business with these customers. The loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by Airbus, Boeing or Vestas or any of our other large customers could materially impair our business, operating results, prospects and financial condition. The level of purchases by our customers is often affected by events beyond their control, including general economic conditions, demand for their products, disruptions in deliveries, business disruptions, strikes and other factors.. A decrease in supply, interruptions at key facilities or an increase in cost of raw materials could result in a material decline in our profitability.. Our profitability depends largely on the price and continuity of supply of raw materials, which may be supplied through a sole source or a limited number of sources. We purchase large volumes of raw materials, such as epoxy and phenolic resins, carbon fiber, fiberglass yarn, aluminum foil and aramid paper. Any restrictions on the supply, or an increase in the cost, of our raw materials could significantly reduce our profit margins. Efforts to mitigate restrictions on the supply or price increases of these raw materials by long-term purchase agreements, productivity improvements or by passing cost increases to our customers may not be successful.. The occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to failure of, or interruption to, key equipment or natural disasters, or inability to install, staff and qualify necessary capacity, achievement of planned manufacturing improvements, or inability to meet customer specifications, may have a material adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility. With respect to certain facilities, such events could have a material effect on our company as a whole.. Reductions in space and defense spending could result in a decline in our net sales.. Space and defense production that has occurred in recent years may not be sustained, individual programs important to Hexcel may be cancelled, production may not continue to grow and the increased demand for composite-intensive programs may not continue. In addition, the production of military aircraft depends upon defense budgets and the related demand for defense and related equipment. Approximately 17% of our net sales in 2017 were to the Space & Defense market of which about 87% were related to military programs in the United States and other countries.. We have substantial international operations subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results.. We believe that revenue from sales outside the U.S. will continue to account for a material portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. In 2017, 52% of our production and 59% of our customer sales occurred outside of the United States. Additionally, we have invested significant resources in our international operations and we intend to continue to make such investments in the. 11. future. Our international operations are subject to numerous risks, including: (a) general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; (b) the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; (c) foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the U.S.; (d) cost of compliance with international trade laws of all of the countries in which we do business, including export control laws, relating to sales and purchases of goods and equipment and transfers of technology; (e) tax rates may vary and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; (f) governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities; and (g) the potential difficulty in enforcing our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries, and the potential for the intellectual property rights of others to affect our ability to sell product in certain markets. Any one of these could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may influence the profitability and cash flows of our business. For example, our European operations sell a portion of the products they produce in U.S. dollars, yet the labor, overhead costs and portions of material costs incurred in the manufacture of those products are primarily denominated in Euros, British pound sterling or U.S. dollars. As a result, the local currency margins of goods manufactured with costs denominated in local currency, yet sold in U.S. dollars, will vary with fluctuations in currency exchange rates, reducing when the U.S. dollar weakens against the Euro and British pound sterling. In addition, the reported U.S. dollar value of the local currency financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries will vary with fluctuations in currency exchange rates. While we enter into currency exchange and hedge agreements from time to time to mitigate these types of fluctuations, we cannot remove all fluctuations or hedge all exposures, and our earnings are impacted by changes in currency exchange rates.. We currently do not have political risk insurance in the countries in which we conduct business. While we carefully consider these risks when evaluating our international operations, we cannot provide assurance that we will not be materially adversely affected as a result of such risks.. We could be adversely affected by environmental and safety requirements.. Our operations require the handling, use, storage and disposal of certain regulated materials and wastes. As a result, we are subject to various laws and regulations pertaining to pollution and protection of the environment, health and safety. These requirements govern, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to waters and the generation, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of waste and remediation of contaminated sites. We have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures in order to comply with these laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future.. We have been named as a \"potentially responsible party\" under the U.S. Superfund law or similar state laws at several sites requiring clean up. These laws generally impose liability for costs to investigate and remediate contamination without regard to fault. Under certain circumstances liability may be joint and several, resulting in one responsible party being held responsible for the entire obligation. Liability may also include damages to natural resources. We have incurred and likely will continue to incur expenses to investigate and clean up certain of our existing and former facilities, for which we believe we have adequate reserves. The ongoing operation of our manufacturing plants also entails environmental risks, and we may incur material costs or liabilities in the future which could adversely affect us. Although most of our properties have been the subject of environmental site assessments, there can be no assurance that all potential instances of soil and groundwater contamination have been identified, even at those sites where assessments have been conducted. Accordingly, we may discover previously unknown environmental conditions and the cost of remediating such conditions may be material. See \"Legal Proceedings\" below and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. In addition, we may be required to comply with evolving environmental, health and safety laws, regulations or requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future or to address newly discovered information or conditions that require a response. In particular, climate change is receiving increased attention worldwide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The U.S. Congress has considered climate change-related legislation and may retake the issue in the near future. Specific policy measures could include cap and trade provisions or a carbon tax. The European Union has instituted the Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading System (EU-ETS). Our manufacturing plants use energy, including electricity and natural gas, and some of our plants may in the future emit amounts of greenhouse gas that could be affected by these legislative and regulatory efforts. Potential consequences could include increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require the Company to make additional investments in its facilities and equipment or limit our ability to grow.. 12. Acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, business combinations or joint ventures by the Company may entail certain operational and financial risks.. Over the past several years we have completed several strategic acquisitions of complementary manufacturing companies, Formax (UK) Limited, Structil SA and Oxford Performance Materials aerospace and defense business, as well as strategic investments in companies such as Carbon Conversions Incorporated. We expect to continue to explore complementary acquisitions, investments and joint ventures and may also pursue divestures of business lines that do not fit with our core strategy. We may also engage in further vertical integration. From time to time, we have evaluated, and we expect that we will continue to evaluate, possible acquisition, investment, joint venture and/or divestiture transactions. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to these types of activities or may have entered into non-binding letters of intent. However, we may face competition for attractive targets and may not be able to source appropriate acquisition targets at prices acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, these types of transactions may require significant liquidity, which may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. There can be no assurance that we will realize the intended benefits from such transactions or that such transactions will not present risks that could result in increased expenditures and could materially adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. Our forward-looking statements and projections may turn out to be inaccurate.. This Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to analyses and other information that are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements also relate to future prospects, developments and business strategies. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as \"anticipate\", \"believe\", \"could\", \"estimate\", \"expect\", \"intend\", \"may\", \"plan\", \"predict\", \"project\", \"should\", \"would\", \"will\" and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions. Such statements are based on current expectations, are inherently uncertain, and are subject to changing assumptions.. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (a) the estimates and expectations based on aircraft production rates made publicly available by Airbus, Boeing and others; (b) the revenues we may generate from an aircraft model or program; (c) the impact of the possible push-out in deliveries of the Airbus and Boeing backlog and the impact of delays in the startup or ramp-up of new aircraft programs or the final Hexcel composite material content once the design and material selection has been completed; (d) expectations of composite content on new commercial aircraft programs and our share of those requirements; (e) expectations of growth in revenues from space and defense applications, including whether certain programs might be curtailed or discontinued; (f) expectations regarding growth in sales for wind energy, recreation, automotive and other industrial applications; (g) expectations regarding working capital trends and expenditures; (h) expectations as to the level of capital expenditures and when we will complete the construction and qualification of capacity expansions; (i) our ability to maintain and improve margins in light of the ramp-up of capacity and new facilities and the current economic environment; (j) the outcome of legal matters; (k) our projections regarding the realizability of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards; and (l) the impact of various market risks, including fluctuations in interest rates, currency exchange rates, environmental regulations and tax codes, fluctuations in commodity prices, and fluctuations in the market price of our common stock, the impact of work stoppages or other labor disruptions and the impact of the above factors on our expectations of 2018 financial results and beyond. In addition, actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward looking statements due to a variety of factors, including but not limited to changing market conditions, increased competition, product mix, inability to achieve planned manufacturing improvements or to meet customer specifications, cost reductions and capacity additions, and conditions in the financial markets.. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different.  Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following: changes in general economic and business conditions; changes in current pricing and cost levels; changes in political, social and economic conditions and local regulations; foreign currency fluctuations; changes in aerospace delivery rates; reductions in sales to any significant customers, particularly Airbus, Boeing or Vestas; changes in sales mix; changes in government defense procurement budgets; changes in military aerospace programs technology; industry capacity; competition; disruptions of established supply channels, particularly where raw materials are obtained from a single or limited number of sources and cannot be substituted by unqualified alternatives; manufacturing capacity constraints; uncertainty regarding the likely exit of the U.K. from the European Union; and unforeseen vulnerability of our network and systems to interruptions or failures.. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expected, estimated or projected. In addition to other factors that affect our operating results and financial position, neither past financial performance nor our expectations should be considered reliable indicators of future performance. Investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Further, the price of our publicly traded securities are subject to volatility. Any of the factors discussed above could have an adverse impact on the price of our securities. In addition, failure of sales or income in any quarter to meet the investment community's expectations, as well as broader market trends,. 13. can have an adverse impact on the price of our securities. We do not undertake an obligation to update our forward-looking statements or risk factors to reflect future events or circumstances."
