[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. There are many factors that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and investments in us. Security holders and potential investors in our securities should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below, as well as the discussion of other factors that could affect us or investments in us included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If one or more of these risks were to materialize, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. These known material risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any written or oral forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf.. Risks Inherent in Our Business. Our business and financial performance depends on the level of drilling and completion activity in the oil and natural gas industry.. Demand for frac sand is materially dependent on the levels of activity in oil and natural gas exploration, development and production, and more specifically, the number of oil and natural gas wells completed in geological formations where proppants are used in hydraulic fracturing treatments and the amount of frac sand customarily used in the completion of such wells.. Industry conditions that impact the activity levels of oil and natural gas producers are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including:. • governmental regulations, including the policies of governments regarding the exploration for and production and development of their oil and natural gas reserves;. • global weather conditions and natural disasters;. • worldwide political, military, and economic conditions;. • the cost of producing and delivering oil and natural gas;. • commodity prices; and. • development of alternative energy sources.. A prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices would generally depress the level of oil and natural gas exploration, development, production and well completion activity, which could result in a corresponding decline in the demand for the frac sand we produce and deliver.  In addition, any future decreases in the rate at which oil and natural gas reserves are developed, whether due to increased governmental regulation, limitations on exploration and drilling activity or other factors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, even in a stronger oil and natural gas price environment.  If there is a decrease in the demand for frac sand, we may be unable to sell or deliver volumes, or be forced to reduce our sales prices, any of which would reduce the amount of cash we generate.. 17. Table of Contents. Our operations are subject to operating risks that are often beyond our control and could adversely affect production levels and costs, and such risks may not be covered by insurance.. Our mining, processing and production facilities are subject to risks normally encountered in the commercial silica industry, some of which are beyond our control including the following:. • the volume of frac sand we are able to buy and sell;. • the price at which we are able to buy and sell frac sand;. • demand and pricing for our integrated logistics solutions;. • the pace of adoption of our integrated logistics solutions;. • the amount of frac sand we are able to timely deliver at the wellsite, which could be adversely affected by, among other things, logistics constraints, weather, or other delays at the wellsite of transloading facility;. • changes in prevailing economic conditions, including the extent of changes in crude oil, natural gas and other commodity prices;. • the amount of frac sand we are able to excavate and process, which could be adversely affected by, among other things, operating difficulties, cave-ins, pit wall failures, rock falls and unusual or unfavorable geologic conditions;. • changes in the price and availability of natural gas or electricity;. • inability to obtain necessary equipment or replacement parts;. • changes in the railroad infrastructure, price, capacity and availability, including the potential for rail line disruptions;. • changes in the price and availability of transportation;. • availability of or failure of our contractors, partners and service providers to provide services at the agreed-upon levels or times;. • failure to maintain safe work sites at our facilities or by third parties at their work sites;. • inclement or hazardous weather conditions, including flooding, and the physical impacts of climate change;. • environmental hazards;. • industrial and transportation related accidents;. • fires, explosions or other accidents;. • difficulty collecting receivables;. • inability of our customers to take delivery;. • difficulties in obtaining and renewing environmental permits;. • facility shutdowns or restrictions in operations in response to environmental regulatory actions including but not limited to actions related to endangered species;. • changes in laws and regulations (or the interpretation thereof) related to the mining and hydraulic fracturing industries, silica dust exposure or the environment;. • the outcome of litigation, claims or assessments, including unasserted claims;. • inability to acquire or maintain necessary permits, licenses or other approvals, including mining or water rights;. • labor disputes and disputes with our third-party contractors;. • inability to attract and retain key personnel;. • cyber security breaches of our systems and information technology;. • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; and. • changes in the political environment of the geographical areas in which we and our customers operate.. 18. Table of Contents. We may be adversely affected by decreased demand for raw frac sand due to the development of either effective alternative proppants or new processes to replace hydraulic fracturing.. Raw frac sand is a proppant used in the completion and re-completion of oil and natural gas wells to stimulate and maintain oil and natural gas production through the process of hydraulic fracturing.  Raw frac sand is the most commonly used proppant and is less expensive than other proppants, such as resin-coated sand and manufactured ceramics.  A significant shift in demand from frac sand to other proppants, or the development of new processes to replace hydraulic fracturing altogether, could cause a decline in the demand for the frac sand we produce and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, a significant shift in demand from the types of raw frac sand product that we produce and sell, to other types of proppants, could cause a decline in the demand for the frac sand we produce and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our future performance will depend on our ability to succeed in competitive markets, and on our ability to appropriately react to potential fluctuations in the demand for and supply of frac sand.. We operate in a highly competitive market that is characterized by a small number of large, national producers and a larger number of small, regional or local producers.  Competition in the industry is based on price, reliability of supply, transportation capabilities, product quality, performance and sand characteristics.. We compete with large, national producers such as U.S. Silica Holdings, Inc., Unimin Corporation, Fairmount Santrol Holdings, Inc., and others.  Our competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we do, may develop technology superior to ours or may have production and distribution facilities that are located closer to key customers than ours.  Should the demand for hydraulic fracturing services decrease, prices in the frac sand market could materially decrease as producers may sell frac sand at below market prices.  In addition, oil and natural gas exploration and production companies and other providers of hydraulic fracturing services could acquire their own frac sand reserves, expand their existing frac sand production capacity or otherwise fulfill their own proppant requirements and existing or new frac sand producers could add to or expand their frac sand production capacity, which may negatively impact pricing and demand for our frac sand.  Because the markets for our products are typically local, we also compete with smaller regional or local producers.  For instance, prior to 2015, there had been an increasing number of small producers servicing the frac sand market due to increased demand for hydraulic fracturing services.  In 2018, we anticipate commencement of operations at frac sand production facilities of several national, regional and local producers in the Permian Basin due to expectations of increased demand for frac sand in the Permian Basin.  If demand for hydraulic fracturing services decreases and the supply of frac sand available in the market increases, prices in the frac sand market could continue to materially decrease as less-efficient producers exit the market, selling frac sand at below market prices.  Furthermore, our competitors may choose to consolidate, which could provide them with greater financial and other resources than us.  We may not be able to compete successfully against our competitors in the future, and competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The majority of our sales are generated under contracts with companies in the oil and gas industry.  The loss of a contract or customer, a significant reduction in purchases by any customer, our customers' failure to comply with contract terms, or our inability to renegotiate, renew or replace our existing contracts on favorable terms could, individually or in the aggregate, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As of January 1, 2018, we have contracted to sell raw frac sand under long-term supply agreements to customers with remaining terms ranging from 12 to 84 months.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, we generated 73% of our revenues from sales of frac sand to customers with whom we had long-term contracts.. Some of our customers have exited or could exit the pressure pumping business or have been or could be acquired by other companies that purchase the same products and services we provide from other third-party providers.  Our current customers also may seek to acquire frac sand from other providers that offer more competitive pricing or capture and develop their own sources of frac sand.  The loss of a customer or contract, or a reduction in the amount of frac sand purchased by any customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our customers may fail to comply with the terms of their existing contracts. Our enforcement of specific contract terms may be limited by market dynamics and other factors.  Our customers' failure to comply with contract terms or our limited enforcement thereof could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Upon the expiration of our current supply agreements, our customers may not continue to purchase the same levels of our frac sand or logistics services due to a variety of reasons.  In addition, we may choose to renegotiate our existing contracts on less favorable terms or at reduced volumes in order to preserve relationships with our customers.  Upon the expiration of our current contract terms, we may be unable to renew our existing contracts or enter into new contracts on terms favorable to us, or at all.  The demand for frac sand or prevailing prices at the time our current supply agreements expire may render entry into new long-term supply agreements difficult or impossible. Any renegotiation of our contracts on less favorable terms, or inability to enter into new contracts on economically acceptable terms upon the expiration of our current contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. Our long-term contracts may preclude us from taking advantage of increasing prices for frac sand or mitigating the effect of increased operational costs during the term of our long-term contracts, even though certain volumes under certain of our long-term contracts are subject to annual fixed price escalators or other pricing adjustment mechanisms.. The pricing arrangements under our long-term supply contracts we have may negatively impact our results of operations.  If our operational costs increase during the terms of our long-term supply contracts, we may not be able to pass any of those increased costs to our customers.  If we are unable to otherwise mitigate these increased operational costs, our net income and available cash for distributions could decline.  Additionally, in periods with increasing prices, our sales may not keep pace with market prices.. An increase in the supply of raw frac sand could make it more difficult for us to renew or replace our existing contracts on favorable terms, or at all.. If significant new reserves of raw frac sand are discovered and developed, we may be unable to renew or replace our existing contracts at favorable pricing, or at all.  Specifically, if frac sand becomes more readily available, our customers may not be willing to enter into long-term contracts, or may demand lower prices, or both, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows over the long-term.. We are subject to the credit risk of our customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers could adversely affect our financial results and cash available for distribution.. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers, whose operations are concentrated in a single industry, the global oilfield services industry.  In particular, as a result of volatility in oil and natural gas prices and ongoing uncertainty of the global economic environment our customers may not be able to fulfill their existing commitments or access financing necessary to fund their current or future obligations.  Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully eliminate customer credit risk.  If we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers or unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness, any resulting increase in nonpayment or nonperformance by them and our inability to re-market or otherwise sell the volumes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions to our unitholders.. We have entered into a Revolving Credit Agreement and Term Loan Credit Facility which contain restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities.. Our Revolving Credit Agreement and Term Loan Credit Facility place financial restrictions and operating restrictions on our business, which may limit our flexibility to respond to opportunities and may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our Revolving Credit Agreement and Term Loan Credit Facility restrict, and any other future financing agreements that we may enter into could restrict, our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, to engage in, expand or pursue our business activities or to make distributions to our unitholders.  For example, our Revolving Credit Agreement contains covenants requiring us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio, minimum interest coverage ratio and asset coverage ratio.  Additionally, our Revolving Credit Agreement and Term Loan Credit Facility restrict our ability to, among other things:. • enter into a merger, consolidate or acquire capital in or assets of other entities;. • incur additional indebtedness;. • incur liens on property;. • make certain investments; and. • enter into transactions with affiliates.. Our compliance with these provisions may materially adversely affect our ability to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities we believe to be desirable, obtain future financing, fund needed capital expenditures, finance acquisitions, equipment purchases and development expenditures, or withstand a future downturn in our business.. Our ability to comply with any such restrictions and covenants is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control.  If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired.  If we violate any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in the Revolving Credit Agreement or Term Loan Credit Facility, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable and our lenders' commitment to make further loans to us may terminate.  We may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments.  Even if we could obtain alternative financing, that financing may not be on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us.  If we are unable to repay amounts borrowed, the holders of the debt could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding against the collateral.  In addition, our obligations under our Revolving Credit Agreement and Term Loan Credit Facility are secured by substantially all of our assets and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness as required under these facilities, the lenders could seek to foreclose on our assets.. 20. Table of Contents. Our long-term unsecured debt is currently rated by Moody's Investors Service Inc. (\"Moody's\") and Standard and Poor's (\"S&P\").  As of February 15, 2018, the credit rating of the Partnership's Term Loan Credit Facility was B3 from Moody's and B- from Standard and Poor's.  Any future downgrades in our credit ratings could negatively impact the cost of raising capital, and a downgrade could also adversely affect our ability to effectively execute aspects of our strategy and to access capital in the public markets.. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We have exposure to increases in interest rates under our Revolving Credit Agreement and Term Loan Credit Facility.  As of December 31, 2017, we had $200.0 million of debt outstanding under our Term Loan Credit Facility, with an effective interest rate of 5.41%.  Assuming no change in the amount outstanding, the impact on interest expense of a 10% increase or decrease in the average interest rate would be approximately $1.1 million per year.  As a result of this variable interest rate debt, our financial condition could be adversely affected by increases in interest rates.. Our expansion or modification of existing assets, or the construction of new assets, may not result in revenue increases and may be subject to regulatory, environmental, political, legal and economic risks, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing facilities and the construction of new facilities generally involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties beyond our control and may require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital.  If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at the budgeted cost or at all.  Moreover, upon the expenditure of future funds on a particular project, our revenues may not increase immediately, or as anticipated, or at all.  For instance, we may construct new facilities over an extended period of time and will not receive any material increases in revenues until the projects are completed.  Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in a location in which such growth does not materialize.  Since we are not engaged in the hydraulic fracturing process, we may be unable to accurately predict the extent of drilling and completion activities to take place in future periods.  To the extent we rely on estimates of future levels of drilling and completion activity in any decision to construct facilities, such estimates may prove to be inaccurate because there are numerous uncertainties inherent in forecasting the levels of drilling and completion activity.  As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain, develop and increase our asset base.  The inability to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, or at all, could have an adverse effect on our growth and profitability.. Although we have used a significant amount of our cash reserves and cash generated from our operations to fund the development and expansion of our asset base, we may depend on the availability of credit to fund future capital expenditures.  Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, the covenants contained in our Revolving Credit Agreement, Term Loan Credit Facility or other future debt agreements, adverse market conditions or other contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control.  Our failure to obtain the funds necessary to maintain, develop and increase our asset base could adversely impact our growth and profitability.. Even if we are able to obtain financing or access the capital markets, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and our level of indebtedness could restrict our ability to fund future development and acquisition activities.  In addition, the issuance of additional equity interests may result in dilution to our existing unitholders.. The majority of our sales are sourced at our production facilities.  Any adverse developments at the facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Any adverse development at our production facilities due to catastrophic events or weather, or any other event that would cause us to curtail, suspend or terminate operations at the production facilities, could result in us being unable to meet our contracted sand deliveries.  If we are unable to deliver contracted volumes within the required time frame, or otherwise arrange for delivery from a third party, we could be required to pay make-whole payments to our customers that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  If we are unable to provide supply from our production facilities, any reduction in the amount of frac sand available for our purchase from third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 21. Table of Contents. Inaccuracies in estimates of volumes and qualities of our sand reserves could result in lower than expected sales and higher than expected production costs.. John T. Boyd, our independent reserve engineers, prepared estimates of our reserves based on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our engineers and geologists.  However, frac sand reserve estimates are by nature imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from available data, which may prove unreliable.  There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of reserves and non-reserve frac sand deposits and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond our control.  Estimates of economically recoverable frac sand reserves necessarily depend on a number of factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results, such as:. • geological and mining conditions and/or effects from prior mining that may not be fully identified by available data or that may differ from experience;. • assumptions concerning future prices of frac sand, operating costs, mining technology improvements, development costs and reclamation costs; and. • assumptions concerning future effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits and taxes by governmental agencies.. Any inaccuracy in John T. Boyd's estimates related to our frac sand reserves and non-reserve frac sand deposits could result in lower than expected sales and higher than expected costs.  For example, John T. Boyd's estimates of our proven reserves assume that our revenue and cost structure will remain relatively constant over the life of our reserves.  If these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, some or all of our reserves may not be economically mineable, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.  In addition, we pay a fixed price per ton of sand excavated regardless of the quality of the frac sand, and our current customer contracts require us to deliver frac sand that meets certain specifications.  If John T. Boyd's estimates of the quality of our reserves, including the volumes of the various specifications of those reserves, prove to be inaccurate, we may incur significantly higher excavation costs without corresponding increases in revenues, we may not be able to meet our contractual obligations, or our facilities may have a shorter than expected reserve life, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. Our operations are dependent on our rights and ability to mine our properties and on our having received or renewed the required permits and approvals from governmental authorities and other third parties.. We hold numerous governmental, environmental, mining, and other permits, water rights, and approvals authorizing operations at our production facilities.  For our extraction and processing, the permitting process is subject to federal, state and local authority.  For example, on the federal level, a Mine Identification Request (MSHA Form 7000-51) must be filed and obtained before mining commences. If wetlands are implicated, a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Wetland Permit is required.  At the state level, a series of permits are required related to air quality, wetlands, water quality (waste water, storm water), grading permits, endangered species, archaeological assessments, and high capacity wells in addition to others depending upon site specific factors and operational detail.  At the local level, zoning, building, storm water, erosion control, wellhead protection, road usage and access are all regulated and require permitting to some degree.  A non-metallic mining reclamation permit is required.  A decision by a governmental agency or other third party to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations.. Title to, and the area of, mineral properties and water rights may also be disputed.  Mineral properties sometimes contain claims or transfer histories that examiners cannot verify.  A successful claim that we do not have title to our property or lack appropriate water rights could cause us to lose any rights to explore, develop, and extract minerals, without compensation for our prior expenditures relating to such property.  Our business may suffer a material adverse effect in the event we have title deficiencies.. In some instances, we have received access rights or easements from third parties, which allow for a more efficient operation than would exist without the access or easement.  A third party could take action to suspend the access or easement, and any such action could be materially adverse to our business, results of operations or financial condition.. 22. Table of Contents. Federal, state, and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing and the potential for related litigation could result in increased costs, additional operating restrictions or delays for our customers, which could cause a decline in the demand for our frac sand and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Although we do not directly engage in hydraulic fracturing activities, our customers purchase our frac sand for use in their hydraulic fracturing activities.  Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.  The federal Safe Drinking Water Act (\"SDWA\") regulates the underground injection of substances through the Underground Injection Control Program (\"UIC Program\").  Currently, with the exception of certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel, hydraulic fracturing is exempt from federal regulation under the UIC Program, and the hydraulic fracturing process is typically regulated by state or local governmental authorities.  However, the practice of hydraulic fracturing has become controversial and is undergoing increased political and regulatory scrutiny.  From time to time, Congress has considered various other legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process.. There is also the potential for increased federal regulations governing various environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing and the oil and gas production industry.  In recent years, the EPA has finalized rules to limit air emissions from the hydraulic fracturing of certain oil and gas wells and to regulate other sources of air emissions from production operations.  The EPA also finalized wastewater effluent guidelines for unconventional oil and gas operations.  Likewise, the Bureau of Land Management (\"BLM\") finalized rules increasing compliance and disclosure obligations for hydraulic fracturing operations.  Although the BLM rules have been rescinded or delayed, they are the subject of litigation that could result in the rules becoming effective.  Further, the EPA, BLM, or other federal agencies could promulgate new, amended, or replacement rules for hydraulic fracturing and oil and gas operations.. As noted previously under Item 1, \"Business: Environmental Matters\", the RCRA and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and, in some circumstances, non-hazardous wastes.  From time to time various environmental groups have challenged the EPA's exclusion of certain oil and gas wastes from regulation as hazardous wastes under RCRA.  A loss of the RCRA exclusion for drilling fluids, produced waters and related wastes, if EPA were to eliminate the exclusion, would increase our costs to manage and dispose of the wastes we generate and our customers' waste management costs and level of drilling activity, either of which could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial performance.. In addition to federal laws and regulations, various state, local, and foreign governments have implemented, or are considering, increased regulatory oversight of hydraulic fracturing through additional permitting requirements, operational restrictions, disclosure requirements, and temporary or permanent bans on hydraulic fracturing in certain areas such as environmentally sensitive watersheds.  Many local governments also have adopted ordinances to severely restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing activities within their jurisdictions.. The adoption of new or more stringent laws or regulations at the federal, state, local, or foreign levels imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting or delaying, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete oil and natural gas wells, increase our customers' costs of compliance and doing business, and otherwise adversely affect the hydraulic oil and gas fracturing services they perform, which could negatively impact demand for our frac sand.  In addition, heightened political, regulatory, and public scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing practices could expose us or our customers to increased legal and regulatory proceedings, which could be time-consuming, costly, or result in substantial legal liability or significant reputational harm.  We could be directly affected by adverse litigation involving us, or indirectly affected if the cost of compliance limits the ability of our customers to operate.  Such costs and scrutiny could directly or indirectly, through reduced demand for our frac sand, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A facility closure or long-term idling entails substantial costs, and if we close our production facilities sooner than anticipated, our results of operations may be adversely affected.. As a result of market conditions, the Augusta facility was temporarily idled from October 2015 until production resumed in September 2016 and the Whitehall facility was temporarily idled during the second quarter of 2016 and resumed production in March 2017.. 23. Table of Contents. If we idle our production facilities for a long period of time or close a facility sooner than expected, sales will decline unless we are able to acquire and develop additional facilities, which may not be possible. The closure of a production facility would involve significant fixed closure costs, including accelerated employment legacy costs, severance-related obligations, reclamation and other environmental costs and the costs of terminating long-term obligations, including energy contracts and equipment leases. We accrue for the costs of reclaiming open pits, stockpiles, non-saleable sand, ponds, roads and other mining support areas over the estimated mining life of our property.  We base our assumptions regarding the life of our production facilities on detailed studies that we perform from time to time, but our studies and assumptions may not prove to be accurate.  If we were to reduce the estimated life of our production facilities, the fixed facility closure costs would be applied to a shorter period of production, which would increase production costs per ton produced and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Applicable statutes and regulations require that mining property be reclaimed following a mine closure in accordance with specified standards and an approved reclamation plan.  The plan addresses matters such as removal of facilities and equipment, regrading, prevention of erosion and other forms of water pollution, re-vegetation and post-mining land use.  We are required to post a surety bond or other form of financial assurance equal to the cost of reclamation as set forth in the approved reclamation plan. The establishment of the final mine closure reclamation liability is based on permit requirements and requires various estimates and assumptions, principally associated with reclamation costs and production levels.  If our accruals for expected reclamation and other costs associated with facility closures for which we will be responsible were later determined to be insufficient, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.. Our production process consumes large amounts of natural gas and electricity.  An increase in the price or a significant interruption in the supply of these or any other energy sources could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Energy costs, primarily natural gas and electricity, represented 3% of our total sales and 11% of our total production costs during the year ended December 31, 2017.  Natural gas is the primary fuel source used for drying in the frac sand production process and, as such, our profitability is impacted by the price and availability of natural gas we purchase from third parties. Because we have not contracted for the provision of natural gas on a fixed-price basis, our costs and profitability will be impacted by fluctuations in prices for natural gas.  The price and supply of natural gas are unpredictable and can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other events outside our control, such as changes in supply and demand due to weather conditions, actions by OPEC and other oil and natural gas producers, regional production patterns and environmental concerns.  In addition, potential climate change regulations or carbon or emissions taxes could result in higher production costs for energy, which may be passed on to us in whole or in part.  The price of natural gas has been extremely volatile over the last several years.  In order to manage this risk, we may hedge natural gas prices through the use of derivative financial instruments, such as forwards, swaps and futures.  However, these measures carry risk (including nonperformance by counterparties) and do not in any event entirely eliminate the risk of decreased margins as a result of natural gas price increases.  A significant increase in the price of energy that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our products or covered through hedging arrangements or an extended interruption in the supply of natural gas or electricity to our production facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects.. Seasonal and severe weather conditions could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our business could be materially adversely affected by seasonal and severe weather conditions.  Severe weather conditions may affect our customers' operations, thus reducing their need for our products or ability to take delivery of our product at the terminal or the wellsite, or impact our operations by resulting in weather-related damage to our facilities and equipment and impact our customers' ability to take delivery of our products at our plant site.  Any weather-related interference with our operations could force us to delay or curtail services and potentially breach our contractual obligations to deliver minimum volumes or result in a loss of productivity and an increase in our operating costs.. In addition, severe winter weather conditions impact our Wisconsin operations by causing us to halt our excavation and wet plant related production activities during the winter months.  During non-winter months, we excavate and process excess sand to build a sufficient washed sand stockpile that feeds the dry plant.  Unexpected winter conditions (e.g., if winter conditions comes earlier than expected or last longer than expected) may result in us not having a sufficient sand stockpile to supply feedstock for our dry plant during winter months, which could result in us being unable to meet our contracted sand deliveries during such time and lead to a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and reputation.. 24. Table of Contents. Our cash flow fluctuates on a seasonal basis.. Our cash flow is affected by a variety of factors, including weather conditions and seasonal periods.  Seasonal fluctuations in weather impact the production levels at our wet processing plant and the level of completion activity in-basin.  While our sales and finished product production levels are contracted annually and expected to be fulfilled evenly throughout the year, varying levels of wet plant production and in-basin demand can lead to cash flows fluctuating through the year.  For example, our mining and wet sand processing activities at our Wisconsin facilities are limited to non-winter months and while the wet processing plant is not operating, we will perform annual maintenance activities, the majority of which are expensed.  As a consequence of the seasonality we may experience lower cash costs and higher expense in the first and fourth quarter of each calendar year.. Diminished access to water may adversely affect our operations.. The excavation and processing activities in which we engage require significant amounts of water, of which we recycle a significant percentage in our operating process.  As a result, securing water rights and water access is necessary for the operation of our processing facilities.  If future excavation and processing activities are located in an area that is water-constrained, there may be additional costs associated with securing water access.  We have obtained water rights that we currently use to service the activities on our properties, and we plan to obtain all required water rights to service other properties we may develop or acquire in the future.  However, the amount of water that we are entitled to use pursuant to our water rights must be determined by the appropriate regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate.  Such regulatory authorities may amend the regulations regarding such water rights, increase the cost of maintaining such water rights or eliminate our current water rights, and we may be unable to retain all or a portion of such water rights.  These new regulations, which could also affect local municipalities and other industrial operations, could have a material adverse effect on our operating costs if implemented.  Such changes in laws, regulations or government policy and related interpretations pertaining to water rights may alter the environment in which we do business, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  Additionally, a water discharge permit may be required to properly dispose of water at our processing sites.  The water discharge permitting process is also subject to regulatory discretion, and any inability to obtain the necessary permits could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to maintain effective quality control systems at our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations.. The performance and quality of our products are critical to the success of our business.  These factors depend significantly on the effectiveness of our quality control systems, which, in turn, depends on a number of factors, including the design of our quality control systems, our quality-training program and our ability to ensure that our employees adhere to our quality control policies and guidelines.  Any significant failure or deterioration of our quality control systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or unable to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire, our future growth would be limited, and any acquisitions we make may reduce, rather than increase, our cash generated from operations on a per unit basis.. A portion of our strategy to grow our business and return capital to unitholders is dependent on our ability to make acquisitions that result in an increase in our cash available for distribution per unit or unit repurchases.  If we are unable to make acquisitions because we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable acquisition agreements, we are unable to obtain financing for these acquisitions on economically acceptable terms or we are outbid by competitors, our future growth and ability to increase distributions will be limited.  Furthermore, even if we do consummate acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, they may in fact result in a decrease in our cash available for distribution per unit or unit repurchases.  Any acquisition involves potential risks, some of which are beyond our control, including, among other things:. • inaccurate assumptions about revenues and costs, including synergies;. • inability to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire;. • inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our business and newly acquired assets;. • the assumption of unknown liabilities;. • limitations on rights to indemnity from the seller;. • mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt;. • the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. • unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas; and. • customer or key employee losses at the acquired businesses.. 25. Table of Contents. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and unitholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in determining the application of these funds and other resources.. Our business may suffer if we lose, or are unable to attract and retain, key personnel.. We depend to a large extent on the services of our senior management team and other key personnel.  Members of our senior management and other key employees have extensive experience and expertise in evaluating and analyzing sand reserves, building new frac sand processing facilities, maximizing production from such properties, marketing frac sand production, transportation, distribution and developing and executing financing strategies, as well as substantial experience and relationships with participants in the oilfield services and exploration and production industries.  Competition for management and key personnel is intense, and the pool of qualified candidates is limited.  The loss of any of these individuals or the failure to attract additional personnel, as needed, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and could lead to higher labor costs or the use of less-qualified personnel.  In addition, if any of our executives or other key employees were to join a competitor or form a competing company, we could lose customers, suppliers, know-how and key personnel.  We do not maintain key-man life insurance with respect to any of our employees.  Our success will be dependent on our ability to continue to attract, employ and retain highly skilled personnel.. A shortage of skilled labor together with rising labor costs in the industry may further increase operating costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Efficient sand production and delivery requires skilled laborers, preferably with several years of experience and proficiency in multiple tasks.  Our operations also utilize third party contractors.  There may be a shortage of skilled labor required throughout our operations in various locations.  If the shortage of experienced skilled labor continues or worsens, we may find it difficult to retain or replace third party contractors, and we may be unable to retain, attract and hire or train the necessary number of skilled laborers to perform our own operations.  In either event, there could be an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to conduct operations.. We do not own the land on which the majority of our terminal facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations.. We do not own the land on which the majority of our terminals are located and instead own leasehold interests and rights-of-way for the operation of these facilities.  Upon expiration, termination or other lapse of our current leasehold terms, we may be unable to renew our existing leases or rights-of-way on terms favorable to us, or at all.  Any renegotiation on less favorable terms or inability to enter into new leases on economically acceptable terms upon the expiration, termination or other lapse of our current leases or rights-of-way could cause us to cease operations on the affected land, increase costs related to continuing operations elsewhere and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Fluctuations in transportation costs and the availability or reliability of rail transportation could reduce revenues by causing us to reduce our production or by impairing the ability of our customers to take delivery.. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total delivered cost of frac sand for our customers and, as a result, the cost of transportation is a critical factor in a customer's purchasing decision.  Disruption of transportation services due to shortages of rail cars or trucks, weather-related problems, flooding, drought, accidents, mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply our customers through our logistics network of rail-based terminals, or, if our customers are not using our rail transportation services, the ability of our customers to take delivery and, in certain circumstances, constitute a force majeure event under our customer contracts, permitting our customers to suspend taking delivery of and paying for our frac sand.  Accordingly, if there are disruptions of the rail transportation or trucking services utilized by ourselves or our customers, our business could be adversely affected.. Increases in the price of diesel fuel may adversely affect our results of operations.. Diesel fuel costs and rail fuel surcharges generally fluctuate with increasing and decreasing world crude oil prices, and accordingly are subject to political, economic and market factors that are outside of our control.  Our operations are dependent on earthmoving equipment, railcars and tractor trailers, and diesel fuel costs are a significant component of the operating expense of these vehicles. We contract with a third party to excavate raw frac sand, deliver the raw frac sand to our processing facility and move the sand from our wet plant to our dry plant, and pay a fixed price per ton of sand delivered to our wet plant, subject to a fuel surcharge based on the price of diesel fuel.  In addition, rail transportation rates are generally subject to varying fuel surcharges based on the price of diesel fuel.  Accordingly, increased diesel fuel costs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. 26. Table of Contents. We face distribution and logistics challenges in our business.. As oil and natural gas prices fluctuate, our customers may shift their focus back and forth between different resource plays, some of which can be located in geographic areas that do not have well-developed transportation and distribution infrastructure systems. Transportation and logistics operating expenses comprise a significant portion of our total delivered cost of sales. Therefore, serving our customers in these less-developed areas presents distribution and other operational challenges that may affect our sales and negatively impact our operating costs.  Disruptions in transportation services, including shortages of railcars or trucks, or a lack of developed infrastructure, could affect our ability to timely and cost effectively deliver to our customers and could provide a competitive advantage to competitors located in closer proximity to our customers.  Additionally, increases in the price of transportation costs, including freight charges, fuel surcharges, terminal switch fees and demurrage costs, or excess railcars could negatively impact operating costs if we are unable to pass those increased costs along to our customers.  Failure to find long-term solutions to these logistics challenges could adversely affect our ability to respond quickly to the needs of our customers or result in additional increased costs, and thus could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.. The amount of cash we have available for return of capital to holders of our units depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability, which may prevent us from making cash distributions during periods when we record net income.. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, including cash flow from reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items.  As a result, we may pay cash distributions during periods when we record net losses for financial accounting purposes and may not pay cash distributions during periods when we record net income.. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • the level of capital expenditures we make;. • the cost of acquisitions;. • the amount of unit repurchases we make;. • our debt service requirements and other liabilities;. • fluctuations in our working capital needs;. • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets;. • restrictions contained in debt agreements to which we are a party; and. • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner.. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured.. Our operations are exposed to potential natural disasters, including blizzards, tornadoes, storms, floods and earthquakes. If any of these events were to occur, we could incur substantial losses because of personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, and pollution or other environmental damage resulting in curtailment or suspension of our operations.. We believe we carry adequate insurance, but we may not be fully insured against all risks incident to our business, including the risk of our operations being interrupted due to severe weather and natural disasters.  Furthermore, we may be unable to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates.  As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase.  In addition, sub-limits have been imposed for certain risks.  In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage.  If we were to incur a significant liability for which we are not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash available for distribution to unitholders.. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business.. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflicts involving the United States could adversely affect the United States and global economies and could prevent us from meeting financial and other obligations.  We could experience loss of business, delays or defaults in payments from payors or disruptions of fuel supplies and markets if pipelines, production facilities, processing plants or refineries are direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terror or war.  Such activities could reduce the overall demand for oil and natural gas, which, in turn, could also reduce the demand for our frac sand.  Terrorist activities and the threat of potential terrorist activities and any resulting economic downturn could adversely affect our results of operations, impair our ability to raise capital or otherwise adversely impact our ability to realize certain business strategies.. 27. Table of Contents. We are subject to cyber security risks.  A cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss.. The oil and natural gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain processing activities.  For example, we depend on digital technologies to perform many of our services and to process and record financial and operating data.  In addition, in the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and personally identifiable information of our employees in our data centers and on our networks.  The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is important to our operations.  At the same time, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks, have increased.  The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of cyber security threats.  Our technologies, systems and networks, and those of our vendors, suppliers and other business partners, may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of business operations.  In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period.  Our systems and insurance coverage for protecting against cyber security risks may not be sufficient.  As cyber incidents continue to evolve, we will likely be required to expand additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents.. Risks Related to Environmental, Mining and Other Regulation. We and our customers are subject to extensive environmental and health and safety regulations that impose, and will continue to impose, significant costs and liabilities. In addition, future regulations, or more stringent enforcement of existing regulations, could increase those costs and liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, and local regulatory environmental requirements affecting the mining and mineral processing industry, including among others, those relating to employee health and safety, environmental permitting and licensing, air and water emissions, water pollution, waste management, remediation of soil and groundwater contamination, land use, reclamation and restoration of properties, hazardous materials, and natural resources. These laws, regulations, and permits have had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our business. Some environmental laws impose substantial penalties for noncompliance, and others, such as CERCLA, may impose strict, retroactive, and joint and several liability for the remediation of releases of hazardous substances. Liability under CERCLA, or similar state and local laws, may be imposed as a result of conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Failure to properly handle, transport, store, or dispose of hazardous materials or otherwise conduct our operations in compliance with environmental laws could expose us to liability for governmental penalties, cleanup costs, and civil or criminal liability associated with releases of such materials into the environment, damages to property, or natural resources and other damages, as well as potentially impair our ability to conduct our operations. In addition, future environmental laws and regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or extract our mineral deposits or could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses in connection with our business. Future events, including changes in any environmental requirements (or their interpretation or enforcement) and the costs associated with complying with such requirements, could have a material adverse effect on us.. Any failure by us to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations may cause governmental authorities to take actions that could adversely impact our operations and financial condition, including:. • issuance of administrative, civil, or criminal penalties;. • denial, modification, or revocation of permits or other authorizations;. • imposition of injunctive obligations or other limitations on our operations, including cessation of operations; and. • requirements to perform site investigatory, remedial, or other corrective actions.. Any such regulations could require us to modify existing permits or obtain new permits, implement additional pollution control technology, curtail operations, increase significantly our operating costs, or impose additional operating restrictions among our customers that reduce demand for our services.. We may not be able to comply with any new laws and regulations that are adopted, and any new laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results by requiring us to modify our operations or equipment or shut down our facilities. Additionally, our customers may not be able to comply with any new laws and regulations, which could cause our customers to curtail or cease operations. We cannot at this time reasonably estimate our costs of compliance or the timing of any costs associated with any new laws and regulations, or any material adverse effect that any new standards will have on our customers and, consequently, on our operations.. 28. Table of Contents. Silica-related legislation, health issues and litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation or results of operations.. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to human exposure to crystalline silica. Several federal and state regulatory authorities, including the MSHA and the OSHA, may continue to propose and implement changes in their regulations regarding workplace exposure to crystalline silica, such as permissible exposure limits and required controls and personal protective equipment. We may not be able to comply with any new laws and regulations that are adopted, and any new laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results by requiring us to modify or cease our operations.. In addition, the inhalation of respirable crystalline silica is associated with the lung disease silicosis. There is recent evidence of an association between crystalline silica exposure or silicosis and lung cancer and a possible association with other diseases, including immune system disorders such as scleroderma.  These health risks have been, and may continue to be, a significant issue confronting the frac sand industry.  Concerns over silicosis and other potential adverse health effects, as well as concerns regarding potential liability from the use of frac sand, may have the effect of discouraging our customers' use of our frac sand.  The actual or perceived health risks of mining, processing and handling frac sand could materially and adversely affect frac sand producers, including us, through reduced use of frac sand, the threat of product liability or employee lawsuits, increased scrutiny by federal, state and local regulatory authorities of us and our customers or reduced financing sources available to the frac sand industry.. We are subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 and the OSHA of 1970, both of which impose stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of our operations.. Our operations are subject to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (\"MSH Act\"), as amended by the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act of 2006 as well as the OSHA of 1970 (\"OSH Act\"), including but not limited to the OSHA Silica Rule published in March 2016.  The MSH Act and the OSH Act impose stringent health and safety standards on numerous aspects of our operations inclusive of mineral extraction and processing operations, transportation and transloading of silica and delivery of silica sand to wellsites.  These standards include, the training of personnel, operating procedures, operating and safety equipment, and other matters.  Our failure to comply with such standards, or changes in such standards or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition or otherwise impose significant restrictions on our ability to conduct operations.. We and our customers are subject to other extensive regulations, including licensing, plant and wildlife protection and reclamation regulation, that impose, and will continue to impose, significant costs and liabilities.  In addition, future regulations, or more stringent enforcement of existing regulations, could increase those costs and liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. In addition to the regulatory matters described above, we and our customers are subject to extensive governmental regulation on matters such as permitting and licensing requirements, plant and wildlife protection, wetlands protection, reclamation and restoration activities at mining properties after mining is completed, the discharge of materials into the environment, and the effects that mining and hydraulic fracturing have on groundwater quality and availability.  Our future success depends, among other things, on the quantity and quality of our frac sand deposits, our ability to extract these deposits profitably, and our customers being able to operate their businesses as they currently do.. In order to obtain permits and renewals of permits in the future, we may be required to prepare and present data to governmental authorities pertaining to the potential adverse impact that any proposed excavation or production activities, individually or in the aggregate, may have on the environment. Certain approval procedures may require preparation of archaeological surveys, endangered species studies, and other studies to assess the environmental impact of new sites or the expansion of existing sites. Compliance with these regulatory requirements is expensive and significantly lengthens the time needed to develop a site.  Finally, obtaining or renewing required permits is sometimes delayed or prevented due to community opposition and other factors beyond our control.  The denial of a permit essential to our operations or the imposition of conditions with which it is not practicable or feasible to comply could impair or prevent our ability to develop or expand a site.  Significant opposition to a permit by neighboring property owners, members of the public, or other third parties, or delay in the environmental review and permitting process also could delay or impair our ability to develop or expand a site.  New legal requirements, including those related to the protection of the environment, could be adopted that could materially adversely affect our mining operations (including our ability to extract or the pace of extraction of mineral deposits), our cost structure, or our customers' ability to use our frac sand.  Such current or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and we may not be able to obtain or renew permits in the future.. 29. Table of Contents. Our customers may be subject to climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases (\"GHGs\") which could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the products and services we provide.. There are numerous federal proposals and current regulations on GHG emissions, tracking and reporting.  Federal agencies have begun directly regulating emissions of methane, a GHG, from oil and natural gas operations.  EPA's New Source Performance Standards require certain new, modified, or reconstructed facilities in the oil and natural gas sector to reduce these methane gas, and volatile organic compound emissions. Furthermore, EPA has established Potential for Significant Deterioration (\"PSD\") construction and Title V operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources. Those sources subject to PSD permitting would be required to meet \"best available control technology\" standards for those GHG emissions.  The additional regulatory burden may result in the increased costs or additional operating restrictions for our customers.. Our inability to acquire, maintain or renew financial assurances related to the reclamation and restoration of mining property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are generally obligated to restore property in accordance with regulatory standards and our approved reclamation plan after it has been mined.  We are required under federal, state, and local laws to maintain financial assurances, such as surety bonds, to secure such obligations.  The inability to acquire, maintain or renew such assurances, as required by federal, state, and local laws, could subject us to fines and penalties as well as the revocation of our operating permits.  Such inability could result from a variety of factors, including:. • the lack of availability, higher expense, or unreasonable terms of such financial assurances;. • the ability of current and future financial assurance counterparties to increase required collateral; and. • the exercise by financial assurance counterparties of any rights to refuse to renew the financial assurance instruments.. Our inability to acquire, maintain, or renew necessary financial assurances related to the reclamation and restoration of mining property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Risks Relating to our Structure. Our sponsor owns and controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations.  Our general partner and its affiliates, including our sponsor, have conflicts of interest with us and limited duties, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders.. Our sponsor, Hi-Crush Proppants LLC, owns and controls our general partner and appoints all of the directors of our general partner.  Although our general partner has a duty to manage us in a manner it believes to be in our best interests, the executive officers and directors of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to our sponsor.  Therefore, conflicts of interest may arise between our sponsor or any of its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us or any of our unitholders, on the other hand.  In resolving these conflicts of interest, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our common unitholders.  These conflicts include the following situations, among others:. • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as our sponsor, in exercising certain rights under our partnership agreement, which has the effect of limiting its duty to our unitholders;. • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires our sponsor to pursue a business strategy that favors us;. • our partnership agreement replaces the fiduciary duties that would otherwise be owed by our general partner with contractual standards governing its duties, limits our general partner's liabilities and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without such limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty;. • except in limited circumstances, our general partner has the power and authority to conduct our business without unitholder approval;. • our general partner determines the amount and timing of any capital expenditure and whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces operating surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce operating surplus.  This determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders;. • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and the level of reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders;. • our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions to our common unitholders, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make incentive distributions;. 30. Table of Contents. • our partnership agreement permits us to distribute up to $26 million as operating surplus, even if it is generated from asset sales, non-working capital borrowings or other sources that would otherwise constitute capital surplus.  This cash may be used to fund the incentive distribution rights;. • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us;. • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with its affiliates on our behalf;. • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations;. • our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units;. • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations that it and its affiliates owe to us;. • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or other advisors to perform services for us; and. • our sponsor may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our sponsor's incentive distribution rights without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or the unitholders.  This election may result in lower distributions to the common unitholders in certain situations.. In addition, we may compete directly with entities in which our sponsor has an interest for acquisition opportunities and potentially will compete with these entities for new and existing customers.. The board of directors of our general partner may modify or revoke our cash distribution policy at any time at its discretion. Our partnership agreement does not require us to pay any distributions at all.. The board of directors of our general partner has adopted a cash distribution policy pursuant to which we intend to make quarterly distributions on our units to the extent we have sufficient cash after the establishment of cash reserves and the payment of our expenses, including payments to our general partner and its affiliates.  However, the board may change such policy at any time at its discretion.. In addition, our partnership agreement does not require us to pay any distributions at all.  Accordingly, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the permanence of such a policy in making an investment decision.  Any modification or revocation of our cash distribution policy could substantially reduce or eliminate the amounts of distributions to our unitholders.  The amount of distributions we make, if any, and the decision to make any distribution at all will be determined by the board of directors of our general partner, whose interests may differ from those of our common unitholders.  Our general partner has limited duties to our unitholders, which may permit it to favor its own interests or the interests of our sponsor to the detriment of our common unitholders.. Our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our obligations.. Our general partner intends to limit its liability under contractual arrangements between us and third parties so that the counterparties to such arrangements have recourse only against our assets, and not against our general partner or its assets.  Our general partner may therefore cause us to incur indebtedness or other obligations that are nonrecourse to our general partner.  Our partnership agreement provides that any action taken by our general partner to limit its liability is not a breach of our general partner's duties, even if we could have obtained more favorable terms without the limitation on liability.  In addition, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify our general partner to the extent that it incurs obligations on our behalf.  Any such reimbursement or indemnification payments would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders.. Our sponsor may compete with us for investment opportunities.. Affiliates of our general partner, including our sponsor, are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us.  Our sponsor has had investments in entities that acquired, owned and operated frac sand excavation and processing facilities and our sponsor may make additional investments and acquisitions in the future.  These investments and acquisitions may include entities or assets that we would have been interested in acquiring.  Therefore, our sponsor may compete with us for investment opportunities.  We share our management team with our sponsor, and despite our sponsor's and management team's meaningful economic interest in us, the shared management team is under no obligation to offer new investment opportunities to us before offering them to our sponsor, which could have a material adverse impact on our ability to compete.. 31. Table of Contents. Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers and directors and our sponsor.  Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us.  Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us.  This may create actual or potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders.. It is our plan to distribute a significant portion of our cash available for distribution to our partners, which could limit our ability to grow and make acquisitions.. We may distribute most of our cash available for distribution, which may cause our growth to proceed at a slower pace than that of businesses that reinvest their cash to expand ongoing operations.  To the extent we issue additional units in connection with any acquisitions or expansion capital expenditures, the payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level.  There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue additional units, including units ranking senior to the common units.  The incurrence of additional commercial borrowings or other debt to finance our growth strategy would result in increased interest expense, which, in turn, may impact the cash that we have available to distribute to our unitholders.. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our units.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that eliminate and replace the fiduciary standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law.  For example, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner, or otherwise free of fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders.  This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners.  Examples of decisions that our general partner may make in its individual capacity include:. • how to allocate business opportunities among us and its affiliates;. • whether to exercise its call right;. • how to exercise its voting rights with respect to the units it owns;. • whether to exercise its registration rights;. • whether to elect to reset target distribution levels; and. • whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement.. By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder is treated as having consented to the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above.. Our partnership agreement restricts the remedies available to holders of our units for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that restrict the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty under state fiduciary duty law.  For example, our partnership agreement provides that:. • whenever our general partner makes a determination or takes, or declines to take, any other action in its capacity as our general partner, our general partner is required to make such determination, or take or decline to take such other action, in good faith, and will not be subject to any other or different standard imposed by our partnership agreement, Delaware law, or any other law, rule or regulation, or at equity;. • our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning that it believed that the decision was in the best interest of our partnership;. • our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners resulting from any act or omission unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or its officers and directors, as the case may be, acted in bad faith or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that the conduct was criminal; and. • our general partner will not be in breach of its obligations under the partnership agreement or its duties to us or our limited partners if a transaction with an affiliate or the resolution of a conflict of interest is:. (1) approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, although our general partner is not obligated to seek such approval; or. 32. Table of Contents. (2) approved by the vote of a majority of the outstanding common units, excluding any common units owned by our general partner and its affiliates.. In connection with a situation involving a transaction with an affiliate or a conflict of interest, any determination by our general partner must be made in good faith.  If an affiliate transaction or the resolution of a conflict of interest is not approved by our common unitholders or the conflicts committee then it will be presumed that, in making its decision, taking any action or failing to act, the board of directors of our general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or the partnership, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption.. Our sponsor may elect to cause us to issue common units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights, without the approval of the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner or the holders of our common units.  This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units.. Our sponsor has the right, as the initial holder of our incentive distribution rights, at any time when it has received incentive distributions at the highest level to which it is entitled (50%) for the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election.  Following a reset election by our sponsor, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution.. If our sponsor elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units.  The number of common units to be issued to our sponsor will equal the number of common units that would have entitled the holder to an aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the quarter prior to the reset election equal to the distribution to our sponsor on the incentive distribution rights in the quarter prior to the reset election.  We anticipate that our sponsor would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion.  It is possible, however, that our sponsor could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels.  This risk could be elevated if our incentive distribution rights have been transferred to a third party.  As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units to our sponsor in connection with resetting the target distribution levels.. Holders of our common units have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors, which could reduce the price at which our common units will trade.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business.  Unitholders have no right on an annual or ongoing basis to elect our general partner or its board of directors.  The board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, is chosen entirely by our sponsor, as a result of it owning our general partner, and not by our unitholders. Unlike publicly-traded corporations, we do not conduct annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of stockholders of corporations.  As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. Even if holders of our common units are dissatisfied, they have limited ability to remove our general partner.. If our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have limited ability to remove our general partner.  The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner.. Our general partner interest or the control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders.  Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the members of our general partner to transfer their respective membership interests in our general partner to a third party.  The new members of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner with their own designees and thereby exert significant control over the decisions taken by the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner.  This effectively permits a \"change of control\" without the vote or consent of the unitholders.. 33. Table of Contents. The incentive distribution rights held by our sponsor may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our sponsor may transfer the incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders.  If our sponsor transfers the incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its ownership interest in our general partner, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if our sponsor had retained ownership of the incentive distribution rights.  For example, a transfer of incentive distribution rights by our sponsor could reduce the likelihood of our sponsor accepting offers made by us relating to assets owned by it, as it would have less of an economic incentive to grow our business, which in turn would impact our ability to grow our asset base.. Our general partner has a call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price equal to the greater of (1) the average of the daily closing price of the common units over the 20 trading days preceding the date three days before notice of exercise of the call right is first mailed and (2) the highest per-unit price paid by our general partner or any of its affiliates for common units during the 90-day period preceding the date such notice is first mailed.  As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return or a negative return on their investment.  Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units.  Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right.  There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from issuing additional common units and exercising its call right.  If our general partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act.  As of December 31, 2017, our sponsor did not own any of our common units.. We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute existing unitholder ownership interests.. Our partnership agreement does not limit the number of additional limited partner interests we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders. The issuance of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • our existing unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease;. • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase;. • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. • the market price of the common units may decline.. There are no limitations in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue units ranking senior to the common units.. In accordance with Delaware law and the provisions of our partnership agreement, we may issue additional partnership interests that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation and voting.  The issuance by us of units of senior rank may (i) reduce or eliminate the amount of cash available for distribution to our common unitholders; (ii) diminish the relative voting strength of the total common units outstanding as a class; or (iii) subordinate the claims of the common unitholders to our assets in the event of our liquidation.. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units.. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders' voting rights by providing that any units held by a person or group that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner and its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter.. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided to us or on our behalf will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders.  The amount and timing of such reimbursements will be determined by our general partner.. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur and payments they make on our behalf.  Our partnership agreement does not set a limit on the amount of expenses for which our general partner and its affiliates may be reimbursed.  These expenses include salary, bonus, incentive compensation and other amounts paid to persons who perform services for us or on our behalf and expenses allocated to our general partner by its affiliates. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will determine in good faith the expenses that are allocable to us.  The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. 34. Table of Contents. Your liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.. A general partner of a partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner.  Our partnership is organized under Delaware law, and we conduct business in a number of other states.  The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some jurisdictions.  You could be liable for our obligations as if you were a general partner if a court or government agency were to determine that:. • we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or. • your right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the general partner, to approve some amendments to our partnership agreement or to take other actions under our partnership agreement constitute \"control\" of our business.. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions and in certain circumstances may be personally liable for the obligations of the partnership.. Under certain circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them.  Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, or the Delaware Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets.  Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount.  Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential unitholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our units.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company.  If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed.  We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002.  Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations.  Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our units.. The New York Stock Exchange does not require a publicly-traded partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements.. Our common units are listed on the NYSE under the symbol \"HCLP.\" Because we are a publicly-traded partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have a majority of independent directors on our general partner's board of directors or to establish a compensation committee or a nominating and corporate governance committee.  Accordingly, unitholders do not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states.  If the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to material additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to you could be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on us being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. 35. Table of Contents. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, as a publicly traded partnership we may be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless 90% or more of our gross income in each year consists of certain identified types of \"qualifying income\" as defined by Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Qualifying Income Exception\"). In addition to qualifying income, like many other publicly traded partnerships, we also generate ancillary income that may not be considered qualifying income.  We have historically satisfied, and believe we currently satisfy, the Qualifying Income Exception to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.  Although we monitor our level of gross income that may not be considered qualifying income closely and attempt to manage our operations to ensure compliance with the Qualifying Income Exception, during periods of weak demand and low prices for frac sand, the sale of which generates qualifying income, we may not be able to continue to meet the Qualifying Income Exception.  To the extent we become aware that we may not generate or have not generated sufficient qualifying income with respect to a period, we can and would take action to preserve our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, including seeking relief from the IRS. Section 7704(e) of the Internal Revenue Code provides for the possibility of relief upon, among other things, a determination by the IRS that such failure to meet the Qualifying Income Exception was inadvertent.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law or interpretation on us.. The tax treatment of publicly-traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly-traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. From time to time, members of the U.S. Congress have proposed and considered substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that would affect publicly traded partnerships.  Although there is no current legislative proposal, a prior legislative proposal would have eliminated the Qualifying Income Exception upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. In addition, on January 24, 2017, final regulations regarding which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Code (the \"Final Regulations\") were published in the Federal Register.  The Final Regulations are effective as of January 19, 2017, and apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 19, 2017.  We do not believe the Final Regulations affect our ability to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.  However, there are no assurances that the Final Regulations will not be revised to take a position that is contrary to our interpretation of the current law.. However, any modification to the federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet Qualifying Income Exception. In addition, such changes may affect or cause us to change our business activities, affect the tax considerations of an investment in us, change the character or treatment of portions of its income, or otherwise adversely affect an investment in our common units.  We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or any other proposals will ultimately be enacted.  Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units and the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders.  You are urged to consult with your own tax advisor with respect to the status of regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on your investment in our common units.. Our unitholders are required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.. Because our unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income that could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, they are required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income whether or not they receive cash distributions from us.  For example, if we sell assets and use the proceeds to repay existing debt or fund capital expenditures, you may be allocated taxable income and gain resulting from the sale and our cash available for distribution would not increase.  Similarly, taking advantage of opportunities to reduce our existing debt, such as debt exchanges, debt repurchases, or modifications of our existing debt could result in \"cancellation of indebtedness income\" being allocated to our unitholders as taxable income without any increase in our cash available for distribution.  Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income.. 36. Table of Contents. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If our unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units.  Because distributions in excess of their allocable share of our net taxable income result in a decrease in their tax basis in their common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units they sell will, in effect, become taxable income to them if they sell such units at a price greater than their tax basis in those units, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost.  Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture of depreciation and depletion deductions and certain other items.  In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if they sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale.. A substantial portion of the amount realized from a sale of our units by our unitholders, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to our unitholders due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture.  Thus, our unitholders may recognize both ordinary income and capital loss from the sale of units if the amount realized on a sale of such units is less than such unitholder's adjusted basis in the units.  Net capital loss may only offset capital gains and, in the case of individuals, up to $3,000 of ordinary income per year.  In the taxable period in which a unitholder sells its units, such unitholder may recognize ordinary income from our allocations of income and gain to such unitholder prior to the sale and from recapture items that generally cannot be offset by any capital loss recognized upon the sale of units.. Unitholders may be subject to limitation on their ability to deduct interest expense incurred by us.. In general, we are entitled to a deduction for interest paid or accrued on indebtedness properly allocable to our trade or business during our taxable year.  However, under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, our deduction for \"business interest\" is limited to the sum of our business interest income and 30% of our \"adjusted taxable income.\"  For the purposes of this limitation, our adjusted taxable income is computed without regard to any business interest expense or business interest income, and in the case of taxable years beginning before January 1, 2022, any deduction allowable for depreciation, amortization, or depletion.. Tax-exempt entities persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investments in our common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (\"IRAs\") raises issues unique to them.  For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Further, with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, a tax-exempt entity with more than one unrelated trade or business (including by attribution from investment in a partnership such as ours that is engaged in one or more unrelated trade or business) is required to compute the unrelated business taxable income of such tax exempt entity separately with respect to each such trade or business (including for purposes of determining any net operating loss deduction).  As a result, for years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may not be possible for tax-exempt entities to utilize losses from an investment in our partnership to offset unrelated business taxable income from another unrelated trade or business and vice versa.  Tax-exempt entities should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. Non-U.S. Unitholders will be subject to U.S. taxes and withholding with respect to their income and gain from owning our units.. Non-U.S. unitholders are generally taxed and subject to income tax filing requirements by the United States on income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business (\"effectively connected income\").  Income allocated to our unitholders and any gain from the sale of our units will generally be considered to be \"effectively connected\" with a U.S. trade or business.  As a result, distributions to a Non-U.S. unitholder will be subject to withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate and a Non-U.S. unitholder who sells or otherwise disposes of a unit will also be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain realized from the sale or disposition of that unit.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act imposes a withholding obligation of 10% of the amount realized upon a Non-U.S. unitholder's sale or exchange of an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a U.S. trade or business.  However, due to challenges of administering a withholding obligation applicable to open market trading and other complications, the IRS has temporarily suspended the application of this withholding rule to open market transfers of interest in publicly traded partnerships pending promulgation of regulations or other guidance that resolves the challenges. It is not clear if or when such regulations or other guidance will be issued. Non-U.S. unitholders should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. 37. Table of Contents. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments directly from us.  To the extent possible under the new rules, our general partner may elect to either pay the taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly to the IRS or, if we are eligible, issue a revised information statement to each unitholder and former unitholder with respect to an audited and adjusted return.  Although our general partner may elect to have our unitholders and former unitholders take such audit adjustment into account and pay any resulting taxes (including applicable penalties or interest) in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, there can be no assurance that such election will be practical, permissible or effective in all circumstances.  As a result, our current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units in us during the tax year under audit.  If, as a result of any such audit adjustment, we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced.  These rules are not applicable for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017.. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted, and the costs of any such contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take.  A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take.  Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade.  Moreover, the costs of any contest between us and the IRS will result in a reduction in our cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution.. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the common units actually purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted certain methods for allocating depreciation and amortization deductions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations.  A successful IRS challenge to the use of these methods could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from any sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to a unitholder's tax returns.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our common units each month based upon the ownership of our common units on the first day of each month (the \"Allocation Date\"), instead of on the basis of the date a particular common unit is transferred.  Similarly, we generally allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions gain or loss realized on a sale or other disposition of our assets and, in the discretion of the general partner, any other extraordinary item of income, gain, loss or deduction based upon ownership on the Allocation Date.  Treasury Regulations allow a similar monthly simplifying convention, but such regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of our proration method.  If the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss, and deduction among our unitholders.. A unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of common units) may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, such unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequence of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose common units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered to have disposed of the loaned units. In that case, such unitholder may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to consult a tax advisor to determine whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their common units.. 38. Table of Contents. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.  The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, we must routinely determine the fair market value of our assets.  Although we may, from time to time, consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets.  The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the timing or amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders.  It also could affect the amount of gain recognized from the sale of our common units, have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. Our unitholders are subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our common units.. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders are subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions.  As of December 31, 2017, we own assets and conduct business in several states.  Most of these states currently impose a personal income tax and income taxes on corporations and other entities.  Unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in these states.  Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements.  As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states or foreign jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax.  It is our unitholders' responsibility to file all federal, foreign, state and local tax returns."
