[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The following discussion sets forth what management currently believes could be the most significant regulatory, market and economic, liquidity, legal and business and operational risks and uncertainties that could impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Other risks and uncertainties, including those not currently known to us, could also negatively impact our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Thus, the following should not be considered a complete discussion of all of the risks and uncertainties we may face, and the order of their respective significance may change.. Risks Related to our Business. If our allowance for loan losses is insufficient to cover actual loan losses, our banking segment earnings will be adversely affected.. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that we could sustain losses because our borrowers may not repay their loans in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have historically accounted for this risk by maintaining an allowance for loan losses in an amount intended to cover Bank management's estimate of losses inherent in the loan portfolio. Under the acquisition method of accounting requirements, we were required to estimate the fair value of the loan portfolios acquired in each of the PlainsCapital Merger, the FNB Transaction and the SWS Merger (collectively, the \"Bank Transactions\") as of the applicable acquisition date and write down the recorded value of each such acquired portfolio to the applicable estimate. For most loans, this process was accomplished by computing the net present value of estimated cash flows to be received from borrowers of such loans. The allowance for loan losses that had been maintained by PCC, FNB or SWS, as applicable, prior to their respective transactions, was eliminated in this accounting process. A new allowance for loan losses has been established for loans made by the Bank subsequent to consummation of the PlainsCapital Merger and for any decrease from that originally estimated as of the applicable acquisition date in the estimate of cash flows to be received from the loans acquired in the Bank Transactions.. The estimates of fair value as of the consummation of each of the Bank Transactions were based on economic conditions at such time and on Bank management's projections concerning both future economic conditions and the ability of the borrowers to continue to repay their loans. If management's assumptions and projections prove to be incorrect, however, the estimate of fair value may be higher than the actual fair value and we may suffer losses in excess of those estimated.. 31. Table of Contents. Further, the allowance for loan losses established for new loans or for revised estimates may prove to be inadequate to cover actual losses, especially if economic conditions worsen.. Further, the measure of our allowance for loan losses is also dependent on the adoption of new accounting standards. On June 16, 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued the Current Expected Credit Loss (\"CECL\") standard, which will require financial institutions to estimate and develop a provision for credit losses at origination for the lifetime of the loan, as opposed to reserving for incurred or probable losses up to the balance sheet date. Under the CECL model, credit deterioration would be reflected in the income statement in the period of origination or acquisition of the loan, with changes in expected credit losses due to further credit deterioration or improvement reflected in the periods in which the expectation changes. Accordingly, the CECL model could require financial institutions, such as the Bank, to increase their allowance for loan losses. Moreover, the CECL model could create more volatility in the Bank's level of allowance for loan losses.. While Bank management will endeavor to estimate the allowance to cover anticipated losses in our loan portfolio, no underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we could adopt to address credit risk could provide complete assurance that we will not incur unexpected losses. These losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, federal regulators periodically evaluate the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs based on judgments different from those of Bank management. Any such increase in our provision for loan losses or additional loan charge-offs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by unpredictable economic, market and business conditions.. Our business and results of operations are affected by general economic, market and business conditions. The credit quality of our loan portfolio necessarily reflects, among other things, the general economic conditions in the areas in which we conduct our business. Our continued financial success depends to a degree on factors beyond our control, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnational and local economic conditions, such as the level and volatility of short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, home prices, unemployment and under-employment levels, energy prices, bankruptcies, household income and consumer spending;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe availability and cost of capital and credit;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincidence of customer fraud; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfederal, state and local laws affecting these matters.. The deterioration of any of these conditions, as we have experienced with past economic downturns, could adversely affect our consumer and commercial businesses and securities portfolios, our level of loan charge-offs and provision for loan losses, the carrying value of our deferred tax assets, the investment portfolio of our insurance segment, our capital levels and liquidity, our securities underwriting business and our results of operations.. Several factors could pose risks to the financial services industry, including international political unrest, increases in interest rates, regulatory uncertainty, continued infrastructure deterioration and low oil prices. In addition, the current environment of heightened scrutiny of financial institutions has resulted in increased public awareness of and sensitivity to banking fees and practices. Each of these factors may adversely affect our fees and costs.. Over the last several years, there have been several instances where there has been uncertainty regarding the ability of Congress and the President collectively to reach agreement on federal budgetary and spending matters. A period of failure to reach agreement on these matters, particularly if accompanied by an actual or threatened government shutdown, may have an adverse impact on the U.S. economy. Additionally, a prolonged government shutdown may inhibit our ability to evaluate borrower creditworthiness and originate certain government-backed loans.. 32. Table of Contents. We are heavily reliant on technology, and a failure to effectively implement new technological solutions or enhancements to existing systems or platforms could adversely affect our business operations and the financial results of our operations.. Like most financial services companies, we significantly depend on technology to deliver our products and services and to otherwise conduct business. To remain technologically competitive and operationally efficient, we have either begun the significant investment in or have plans to invest in new technological solutions, substantial system upgrades and other technology enhancements. Many of these solutions and enhancements have a significant duration, include phased implementation schedules, are tied to critical systems, and require substantial internal and external resources for design and implementation. Such external resources may be relied upon to provide expertise and support to help implement, maintain and/or service certain of our core technology solutions.. Although we take steps to mitigate the risks and uncertainties associated with these solutions and initiatives, we may encounter significant adverse developments in the completion and implementation of these initiatives. These may include significant time delays, cost overruns, loss of key personnel, technological problems, processing failures, distraction of management and other adverse developments. Further, our ability to maintain an adequate control environment may be impacted.. The ultimate effect of any adverse development could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could materially affect us, including our control environment, operating efficiency, and results of operations.. Our geographic concentration may magnify the adverse effects and consequences of any regional or local economic downturn.. We conduct our banking operations primarily in Texas. At December 31, 2017, substantially all of the real estate loans in our loan portfolio were secured by properties located in our four largest markets within Texas, with 36%, 24%, 12% and 11% secured by properties located in the Dallas/Fort Worth, Austin/San Antonio, Houston/Coastal Bend and Rio Grande Valley/South Texas markets, respectively. Substantially all of these loans are made to borrowers who live and conduct business in Texas. Accordingly, economic conditions in Texas have a significant impact on the ability of the Bank's customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, our ability to sell the collateral upon any foreclosure, and the stability of the Bank's deposit funding sources. Further, low crude oil prices may have a more profound effect on the economy of energy-dominant states such as Texas. At December 31, 2017, energy loans, including those within the exploration and production, oilfield services, pipeline construction, distribution and transportation sectors, comprised 2.6% of the Bank's loan portfolio. The Bank also has loans extended to businesses that depend on the energy industry. If crude oil prices decrease and remain depressed for an extended period, the Bank could experience weaker energy loan demand and increased losses within its energy and Texas-related loan portfolios. Moreover, natural disasters, such as Hurricane Harvey in 2017, may also have an adverse impact on local economic conditions.. In addition, mortgage origination fee income and insurance premium volume are both dependent to a significant degree on economic conditions in Texas and California. During 2017, 21.6% and 12.8% of our mortgage loans originated (by dollar volume) were collateralized by properties located in Texas and California, respectively. Further, Texas insureds accounted for 68.8% and 70.1% of our insurance segment's gross premiums written in 2017 and 2016, respectively. Also, in our broker-dealer segment, 74% of public finance financial advisory revenues were from entities located in Texas, and 90% of retail brokerage service revenues were generated through locations in Texas, California and Oklahoma. Any regional or local economic downturn that affects Texas or, to a lesser extent, California or Oklahoma, whether caused by recession, inflation, unemployment, changing oil prices, natural disasters or other factors, may affect us and our profitability more significantly and more adversely than our competitors that are less geographically concentrated, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is subject to interest rate risk, and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect our earnings, capital levels and overall results.. The majority of our assets are monetary in nature and, as a result, we are subject to significant risk from changes in interest rates. Between December 2016 and December 2017, the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Board raised its target range for short-term interest rates by 100 basis points, and further increases to the target rate are projected to occur in 2018. Changes in interest rates may impact our net interest income in our banking segment as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities in each of our segments. Earnings in our banking segment are significantly. 33. Table of Contents. dependent on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We expect to periodically experience \"gaps\" in the interest rate sensitivities of our banking segment's assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this \"gap\" may work against us, and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Moreover, increases in interest rates could also lead to increases in our loan losses.. An increase in the general level of interest rates may also, among other things, adversely affect the demand for loans and our ability to originate loans. In particular, if mortgage interest rates increase, the demand for residential mortgage loans and the refinancing of residential mortgage loans will likely decrease, which will have an adverse effect on our income generated from mortgage origination activities. Conversely, a decrease in the general level of interest rates, among other things, may lead to prepayments on our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the general level of market interest rates may adversely affect our net yield on interest-earning assets, loan origination volume and our overall results.. Our broker-dealer segment holds securities, principally fixed-income bonds, to support sales, underwriting and other customer activities. If interest rates increase, the value of debt securities held in the broker-dealer segment's inventory would decrease. Rapid or significant changes in interest rates could adversely affect the segment's bond sales, underwriting activities and broker-dealer businesses. Further, the profitability of our margin and stock lending businesses depends to a great extent on the difference between interest income earned on loans and investments of customer cash balances and the interest expense paid on customer cash balances and borrowings.. At December 31, 2017, over 80% of our insurance segment's invested assets were invested in fixed maturity assets such as bonds and mortgage-backed securities. Because bond trading prices decrease as interest rates rise, a significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our insurance segment's financial condition and results of operations. On the other hand, decreases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our insurance segment's investment income and results of operations. For example, if interest rates decline, investment of new premiums received and funds reinvested will earn less. Additionally, mortgage-backed securities are typically prepaid more quickly when interest rates fall and the holder must reinvest the proceeds at lower interest rates. In periods of increasing interest rates, mortgage-backed securities are typically prepaid more slowly, which may result in our insurance segment receiving interest payments that are below the then-prevailing interest rates for longer time periods than expected.. The volatility of our insurance segment's claims may force it to liquidate securities, which may cause it to incur capital losses. If our insurance segment's investment portfolio is not appropriately matched with its insurance liabilities, it may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to cover these liabilities. In addition, if we experience market disruption and volatility, such as that experienced in 2009 and 2010, we may experience additional losses on our investments and reductions in our earnings. Investment losses could significantly decrease the asset base and statutory surplus of our insurance segment, thereby adversely affecting its ability to conduct business and potentially its A.M. Best financial strength rating.. In addition, we hold securities that may be sold in response to changes in market interest rates, changes in securities' prepayment risk, increases in loan demand, general liquidity needs and other similar factors. Such securities are classified as available for sale and are carried at estimated fair value, which may fluctuate with changes in market interest rates. The effects of an increase in market interest rates may result in a decrease in the value of our available for sale investment portfolio.. Market interest rates are affected by many factors outside of our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. We may not be able to accurately predict the likelihood, nature and magnitude of such changes or how and to what extent such changes may affect our business. We also may not be able to adequately prepare for, or compensate for, the consequences of such changes. Any failure to predict and prepare for changes in interest rates, or adjust for the consequences of these changes, may adversely affect our earnings and capital levels and overall results of operations and financial condition.. 34. Table of Contents. An adverse change in real estate market values may result in losses in our banking segment and otherwise adversely affect our profitability.. At December 31, 2017, 43% of the loan portfolio of our banking segment was comprised of loans with real estate as the primary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides a source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A decline in real estate values generally, and in Texas specifically, could impair the value of the collateral underlying a significant portion of the Bank's loan portfolio and our ability to sell the collateral upon any foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, the amounts we receive upon sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover the outstanding principal and interest on the loan. As a result, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected by a decrease in real estate market values.. Our mortgage origination and insurance businesses are subject to fluctuations based upon seasonal and other factors and, as a result, our results of operations for any given quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year.. Our mortgage origination business is subject to several variables that can impact loan origination volume, including seasonal and interest rate fluctuations. We typically experience increased loan origination volume from purchases of homes during the second and third calendar quarters, when more people tend to move and buy or sell homes. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may, among other things, adversely affect the demand for mortgage loans and our ability to originate mortgage loans. In particular, if mortgage interest rates increase, the demand for residential mortgage loans and the refinancing of residential mortgage loans will likely decrease, which will have an adverse effect on our mortgage origination activities. Conversely, a decrease in the general level of interest rates, among other things, may lead to increased competition for mortgage loan origination business.. Generally, our insurance segment's insured risks exhibit higher losses in the second and third calendar quarters due to a seasonal concentration of weather-related events in its primary geographic markets. Although weather-related losses (including hail, high winds, tornadoes and hurricanes) can occur in any calendar quarter, the second calendar quarter, historically, has experienced the highest frequency of losses associated with these events. Hurricanes, however, are more likely to occur in the third calendar quarter of the year. As a result of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma in the third quarter of 2017, for example, our insurance segment recorded a loss, excluding reinstatement premium, of $4.4 million after reinsurance.. As a result of these variables, our results of operations for any single quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year.. We may be forced to make a \"true-up\" or reimbursement payment to the FDIC if we continue to experience favorable resolutions within our covered assets portfolio.. Under the terms of the loss-share agreements we entered into with the FDIC in connection with the FNB Transaction, the FDIC is obligated to reimburse us for the following amounts with respect to the covered assets (including covered loans): (i) 80% of net losses on the first $240.4 million of net losses incurred; (ii) 0% of net losses in excess of $240.4 million up to and including $365.7 million of net losses incurred; and (iii) 80% of net losses in excess of $365.7 million of net losses incurred. Net losses are defined as book value losses plus certain defined expenses incurred in the resolution of assets, less subsequent recoveries. The loss-share agreements also provide that we may be obligated to reimburse the FDIC under certain circumstances. Under the loss-share agreement for commercial assets, the amount of subsequent recoveries that are reimbursable to the FDIC for a particular asset is limited to book value losses and expenses actually billed plus any book value charge-offs incurred prior to September 13, 2013 (the \"Bank Closing Date\"). There is no limit on the amount of subsequent recoveries reimbursable to the FDIC under the loss-share agreement for single family residential assets. The loss-share agreements for commercial and single family residential assets are in effect for five years and ten years, respectively, and the loss recovery provisions to the FDIC are in effect for eight years and ten years, respectively, from the Bank Closing Date. In accordance with the loss-share agreements, the Bank may be required to make a \"true-up\" payment to the FDIC approximately ten years following the Bank Closing Date if our actual net realized losses over the life of the loss-share agreements are less than the FDIC's initial estimate of losses on covered assets. The \"true-up\" payment is calculated using a defined formula set forth in the Purchase and Assumption Agreement we entered into with the FDIC in connection with the FNB Transaction. The initial estimate of the FDIC Indemnification Asset at the Bank Closing Date was recorded at the present value of 80% of $240.4 million. As of December 31, 2017, the Bank projects that the sum of actual plus projected covered losses and reimbursable expenses subject to the loss-share agreements will. 35. Table of Contents. be less than $240.4 million. As a result, the Bank has recorded, and expects that it will continue to record, amortization associated with its FDIC Indemnification Asset. While the ultimate amount of any \"true-up\" payment is unknown at this time and will vary based upon the amount of future losses or recoveries within our covered loan portfolio, the Bank has recorded a related \"true-up\" payment accrual of $16.3 million at December 31, 2017 based on the current estimate of aggregate realized losses on covered assets over the life of the loss-share agreements. Additionally, as estimates of realized losses on covered assets change, the value of the receivable under the loss-share agreements with the FDIC (\"FDIC Indemnification Asset\") will be adjusted and therefore may not be realized. As noted above, if the Bank continues to experience favorable resolutions within its covered assets portfolio and covered losses, the Bank may be required to increase its \"true-up\" payment accrual and recognize amortization on the FDIC Indemnification Asset. If such changes occur, our financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our geographic concentration may exacerbate the adverse effects on our insurance segment of inherently unpredictable catastrophic events.. Our insurance segment expects to have large aggregate exposures to inherently unpredictable natural and man-made disasters of great severity, such as hurricanes, hail, tornados, windstorms, wildfires and acts of terrorism. The catastrophe models utilized by our insurance segment to assess its probable maximum insurance losses have, in the past, failed to adequately project the financial impact of hurricanes. Although our insurance segment may attempt to exclude certain losses, such as terrorism and other similar risks, from some coverage that our insurance segment writes, it may be prohibited from, or may not be successful in, doing so. The occurrence of losses from catastrophic events may have a material adverse effect on our insurance segment's ability to write new business and on its financial condition and results of operations. Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of policyholder property and the effects of inflation have resulted in increased severity of industry losses in recent years, and our insurance segment expects that these factors will increase the severity of losses in the future. Factors that may influence our insurance segment's exposure to losses from these types of events, in addition to the routine adjustment of losses, include, among others:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texhaustion of reinsurance coverage;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreases in reinsurance rates;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunanticipated litigation expenses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunrecoverability of ceded losses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpact on independent agent operations and future premium income in areas affected by catastrophic events;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunanticipated expansion of policy coverage or reduction of premium due to regulatory, legislative and/or judicial action following a catastrophic event; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunanticipated demand surge related to other recent catastrophic events.. Our insurance segment writes insurance primarily in the states of Texas, Arizona, Tennessee, Oklahoma and Georgia. In 2017, Texas accounted for 68.8%, Arizona accounted for 11.0%, Tennessee accounted for 6.2%, Oklahoma accounted for 5.9% and Georgia accounted for 3.4% of our gross premiums written. As a result, a single catastrophe, destructive weather pattern, wildfire, terrorist attack, regulatory development or other condition or general economic trend affecting these regions or significant portions of these regions could adversely affect our insurance segment's financial condition and results of operations more significantly than other insurance companies that conduct business across a broader geographic area. Although our insurance segment purchases catastrophe reinsurance to limit its exposure to these types of catastrophes, in the event of one or more major catastrophes resulting in losses to it in excess of $105.0 million, our insurance segment's losses would exceed the limits of its reinsurance coverage.. Our risk management processes may not fully identify and mitigate exposure to the various risks that we face, including interest rate, credit, liquidity and market risk.. We continue to refine our risk management techniques, strategies and assessment methods on an ongoing basis. However, our risk management techniques and strategies (as well as those available to the market generally) may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk. For example, we might fail to identify or anticipate particular risks, or the systems that we use, and that are used within our business segments generally, may not be capable of identifying certain risks. Certain of our strategies for managing risk are based upon observed historical market behavior. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to quantify our risk. 36. Table of Contents. exposure. Any failures in our risk management techniques and strategies to accurately identify and quantify our risk exposure could limit our ability to manage risks. In addition, any risk management failures could cause our losses to be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Further, our quantified modeling does not take all risks into account. As a result, we also take a qualitative approach in reducing our risk, although our qualitative approach to managing those risks could also prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses.. Our bank lending, margin lending, stock lending, securities trading and execution and mortgage purchase businesses are all subject to credit risk.. We are exposed to credit risk in all areas of our business. The Bank is exposed to the risk that its loan customers may not repay their loans in accordance with their terms, the collateral securing the loans may be insufficient, or its loan loss reserve may be inadequate to fully compensate the Bank for the outstanding balance of the loan plus the costs to dispose of the collateral. Further, our mortgage warehousing activities subject us to credit risk during the period between funding by the Bank and when the mortgage company sells the loan to a secondary investor.. Our broker-dealer business is subject to credit risk if securities prices decline rapidly because the value of our collateral could fall below the amount of the indebtedness it secures. In rapidly appreciating markets, credit risk increases due to short positions. Our securities lending business as well as our securities trading and execution businesses subject us to credit risk if a counterparty fails to perform or if collateral securing its obligations is insufficient. In securities transactions, we are subject to credit risk during the period between the execution of a trade and the settlement by the customer.. Significant failures by our customers, including correspondents, or clients to honor their obligations, or increases in their rates of default, together with insufficient collateral and reserves, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our operational systems and networks have been, and will continue to be, subject to an increasing risk of continually evolving cybersecurity or other technological risks, which could result in a loss of customer business, financial liability, regulatory penalties, damage to our reputation or the disclosure of confidential information.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business and maintain the security of confidential information and complex transactions, which subjects us to an increasing risk of cyber incidents from these activities due to a combination of new technologies and the increasing use of the Internet to conduct financial transactions, as well as a potential failure, interruption or breach in the security of these systems, including those that could result from attacks or planned changes, upgrades and maintenance of these systems. Such cyber incidents could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, securities trading, general ledger, deposits, computer systems, electronic underwriting servicing or loan origination systems. We also utilize relationships with third parties to aid in a significant portion of our information systems, communications, data management and transaction processing. These third parties with which we do business may also be sources of cybersecurity or other technological risks, including operational errors, system interruptions or breaches, unauthorized disclosure of confidential information and misuse of intellectual property. If our third-party service providers encounter any of these issues, we could be exposed to disruption of service, reputation damages, and litigation risk that could be material to our business.. Although we devote significant resources to maintain and regularly upgrade our systems and networks to safeguard critical business applications, there is no guarantee that these measures or any other measures can provide absolute security. Our computer systems, software and networks may be adversely affected by cyber incidents such as unauthorized access; loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information); account takeovers; unavailability of service; computer viruses or other malicious code; cyber-attacks; and other events. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that these measures will promptly detect intrusions, and that we will not experience losses or incur costs or other damage related to intrusions that go undetected, at levels that adversely affect our financial results or reputation. These threats may derive from human error, fraud or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or may result from accidental technological failure. Additional challenges are posed by external extremist parties, including foreign state actors, in some circumstances, as a means to promote political ends. If one or more of these events occurs, it could result in the disclosure of confidential client or customer information, damage to our reputation with our clients, customers and the market, customer dissatisfaction, additional costs such as repairing systems or adding new personnel or protection technologies, regulatory penalties, exposure to litigation and other financial losses to both us and our clients and customers. Such events could also cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. We maintain cyber risk insurance, but this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses from any future breaches of our system.. 37. Table of Contents. FINRA and the SEC's Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations have issued guidance, including risk alerts, relating to principles, effective practices, summary examination findings and compliance issues with respect to cybersecurity policies and procedures and preparedness. In 2017, Securities Holdings evaluated its cybersecurity program by participating in various internal and external, independent information security assessments based on the Critical Security Controls (CSCs) standards established by the Center for Internet Security. Nonetheless, these assessments may be insufficient and may fail to identify particular vulnerabilities and risks associated with our cybersecurity policies, procedures and preparedness.. We continue to evaluate our cybersecurity program and will consider incorporating new practices as necessary to meet the expectations of such regulatory agencies in light of such cybersecurity guidance and regulatory actions and settlements for cybersecurity-related failures and violations by other industry participants. Such procedures include management-level engagement and corporate governance, risk management and assessment, technical controls, incident response planning, vendor management and staff training. Even if we implement these procedures, however, we cannot assure you that we will be fully protected from a cybersecurity incident, the occurrence of which could adversely affect our reputation and financial condition.. We depend on our computer and communications systems and an interruption in service would negatively affect our business.. Our businesses rely on electronic data processing and communications systems. The effective use of technology allows us to better serve customers and clients, increases efficiency and reduces costs. Our continued success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully maintain, secure and upgrade the capability of our systems, our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their demands and our ability to retain skilled information technology employees. Significant malfunctions or failures of our computer systems, computer security, software or any other systems in the trading process (e.g., record retention and data processing functions performed by third parties, and third party software, such as Internet browsers) could cause delays in customer trading activity. Such delays could cause substantial losses for customers and could subject us to claims from customers for losses, including litigation claiming fraud or negligence. In addition, if our computer and communications systems fail to operate properly, regulations would restrict our ability to conduct business. Any such failure could prevent us from collecting funds relating to customer and client transactions, which would materially impact our cash flows. Any computer or communications system failure or decrease in computer system performance that causes interruptions in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We are heavily dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries.. We are a financial holding company engaged in the business of managing, controlling and operating our subsidiaries, including the Bank and its subsidiary, PrimeLending, NLC and its two insurance company subsidiaries, NLIC and ASIC, and Securities Holdings and its subsidiaries. We conduct no material business or other activity other than activities incidental to holding stock in the Bank, NLC and Securities Holdings. As a result, we rely substantially on the profitability of, and dividends from, these subsidiaries to pay our operating expenses and to pay interest on our debt obligations. Each of the Bank, NLC and Securities Holdings is subject to significant regulatory restrictions limiting its ability to declare and pay dividends to us. Accordingly, if the Bank, NLC or Securities Holdings are unable to make cash distributions to us, then we may be unable to satisfy our obligations or make interest payments on our debt obligations.. NLIC and ASIC are also subject to limitations under debt agreements limiting their ability to declare and pay dividends, including the surplus indentures governing NLIC's two London Interbank Offered Rate (\"LIBOR\") plus 4.10% and 4.05% notes due May and September 2033, respectively, and ASIC's LIBOR plus 4.05% notes due April 2034.. Our indebtedness may affect our ability to operate our business, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness.. At December 31, 2017, on a consolidated basis, we had total deposits of $8.0 billion and other indebtedness of $1.5 billion, including $150.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 5% senior notes due 2025 (the \"Senior Notes\"). Our significant amount of indebtedness could have important consequences, such as:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital needs, acquisitions, capital expenditures or other debt service requirements or for other purposes;. 38. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service debt;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability to compete with other companies who are not as highly leveraged, as we may be less capable of responding to adverse economic and industry conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestricting us from making strategic acquisitions, developing properties or pursuing business opportunities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestricting the way in which we conduct our business because of financial and operating covenants in the agreements governing our and certain of our subsidiaries' existing and future indebtedness, including, in the case of certain indebtedness of subsidiaries, certain covenants that restrict the ability of such subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texposing us to potential events of default (if not cured or waived) under financial and operating covenants contained in our or our subsidiaries' debt instruments that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreasing our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or a decrease in pricing of our products; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting our ability to react to changing market conditions in our industry and in our customers' industries.. In addition to our debt service obligations, our operations require substantial investments on a continuing basis. Our ability to make scheduled debt payments, to refinance our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and to fund capital and non-capital expenditures necessary to maintain the condition of our operating assets and properties, as well as to provide capacity for the growth of our business, depends on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, competitive, legal and other factors.. Subject to the restrictions in the indenture governing the Senior Notes, we may incur significant additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks described above could increase.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful.. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour future ability to refinance the Senior Notes, which depends on, among other things, our compliance with the covenants in the indenture governing the Senior Notes.. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that we will be able to obtain financing in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations, including our obligations under the Senior Notes. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations, sell equity and/or negotiate with our lenders and other creditors to restructure the applicable debt in order to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all. The indenture governing the Senior Notes may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, our ability to avail ourselves of some or all of these options. Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due.. 39. Table of Contents. A reduction in our credit rating could adversely affect us or the holders of our securities.. The credit rating agencies rating our indebtedness regularly evaluate the Company, and credit ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and ability to generate earnings, as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry and the economy and changes in rating methodologies. There can be no assurance that we will maintain our current credit rating. A downgrade of our credit rating could adversely affect our access to liquidity and capital, and could significantly increase our cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to us or purchase our securities. This could affect our growth, profitability and financial condition, including liquidity.. The indenture governing the Senior Notes contains, and any instruments governing future indebtedness would likely contain, restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business.. The indenture governing the Senior Notes contains, and any instruments governing future indebtedness would likely contain, a number of covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdispose of, or issue voting stock of, certain subsidiaries; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur or permit to exist any mortgage, pledge, encumbrance or lien or charge on the capital stock of certain subsidiaries.. Any of these restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions and could otherwise restrict corporate activities. Any failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the indenture governing the Senior Notes. Upon a default, holders of the Senior Notes have the ability ultimately to force us into bankruptcy or liquidation, subject to the indenture governing the Senior Notes. In addition, a default under the indenture governing the Senior Notes could trigger a cross default under the agreements governing our existing and future indebtedness. Our operating results may not be sufficient to service our indebtedness or to fund our other expenditures and we may not be able to obtain financing to meet these requirements.. The financial services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, and if we fail to keep pace, our business may suffer.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively or timely implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers and clients. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry and avoid interruptions, errors and delays could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation that could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business and limit our ability to generate income.. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, including that of the Federal Reserve Board, the Texas Department of Banking, the TDI, the FDIC, the CFPB, the SEC and FINRA. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not stockholders or other debt holders. Insurance regulations promulgated by state insurance departments are primarily intended to protect policyholders rather than stockholders or other debt holders. Likewise, regulations promulgated by FINRA are primarily intended to protect customers of broker-dealer businesses rather than stockholders or other debt holders.. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, capital requirements, investment practices, brokerage and investment advisory activities, dividends and growth, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in money damages, civil money penalties or reputational damage, as well as sanctions and supervisory actions by regulatory agencies that could subject us to significant restrictions on or suspensions of our business and our ability to expand through acquisitions or branching. Further, our clearing contracts generally include automatic termination provisions that are triggered in the event we are suspended from any of the national exchanges of which we are a member for failure to comply with the rules or regulations thereof. While we have implemented policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations of rules and regulations, such violations may occur from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 40. Table of Contents. The U.S. Congress, state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies frequently revise banking and securities laws, regulations and policies. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act, which significantly altered the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB and requires the CFPB and other federal agencies to implement many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. We expect that several aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act may affect our business, including, without limitation, increased capital requirements, increased mortgage regulation, restrictions on proprietary trading in securities, restrictions on investments in hedge funds and private equity funds, executive compensation restrictions, potential federal oversight of the insurance industry and disclosure and reporting requirements. At this time, it is difficult to predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting rules and regulations will affect our business. Compliance with these new laws and regulations likely will result in additional costs, which could be significant and may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.. During the third quarter of 2015, the Bank received a \"satisfactory\" CRA rating in connection with its most recent CRA performance evaluation. A CRA rating of less than \"satisfactory\" adversely affects a bank's ability to establish new branches and impairs a bank's ability to commence new activities that are \"financial in nature\" or acquire companies engaged in these activities. Other regulatory exam ratings or findings also may adversely impact our ability to branch, commence new activities or make acquisitions.. We cannot predict whether or in what form any other proposed regulations or statutes will be adopted or the extent to which our business may be affected by any new regulation or statute. These changes become less predictable, yet more likely to occur, following the transition of power from one presidential administration to another, especially as in 2017, when it involves a change in political party. Any such changes could subject our business to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things.. The impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and new capital rules are uncertain.. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board approved a final rule that substantially amends the risk-based capital rules applicable to Hilltop and PlainsCapital. The final rule implements the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The final rule includes new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which became effective on a phase-in basis for Hilltop and PlainsCapital on January 1, 2015, and refines the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating these ratios. The final rule also establishes a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios and results in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%; and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. As of January 1, 2018, the capital conservation buffer requirement is currently being phased in at 1.875% of risk-weighted assets and will increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. Based on the Basel III phase-in schedule, as of January 1, 2018, the minimum capital requirements including the capital conservation buffer requirement are: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.375% (increased from 5.75%); (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 7.875% (increased from 7.25%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 9.875% (increased from 9.25%); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such actions. The application of more stringent capital requirements for Hilltop and PlainsCapital could, among other things, adversely affect our results of operations and growth, require the raising of additional capital, restrict our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements.. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board adopted a final rule in February 2014 that clarifies how companies should incorporate the Basel III regulatory capital reforms into their capital and business projections during the 2014 and subsequent cycles of capital plan submissions and stress tests required under the Dodd-Frank Act. At December 31, 2017, Hilltop and PlainsCapital had $13.4 billion and $9.6 billion, respectively, in total consolidated assets and their average of total consolidated assets for the four most recent consecutive quarters was $13.1 billion and $9.6 billion, respectively. In addition, banks with $10.0 billion in total consolidated assets are primarily examined by the CFPB with respect to various consumer financial protection laws and regulations. As a relatively new agency with evolving regulations and practices, there is uncertainty as to how the CFPB's examination and regulatory authority might impact the Company's and PlainsCapital's businesses. As a result of the SWS Merger, Hilltop has more than $10.0 billion in assets. Accordingly, the Dodd-Frank Act Stress Testing program requires Hilltop to submit its annual company-run stress test to the Federal Reserve Board using our capital planning tools. Hilltop is required to publicly disclose a summary of the results of these. 41. Table of Contents. forward looking, company-run stress tests that assess the impact of hypothetical macroeconomic baseline, adverse and severely adverse economic scenarios provided by the Federal Reserve Board. If we are deemed to have inadequate capital under the hypothetical economic scenarios, then our regulator may, among other things, require us to limit any dividend or other capital distributions we may make to stockholders or increase our capital levels, modify our business and growth strategies or decrease our exposure to various asset classes, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our regulators may also consider preparation for compliance with these regulatory requirements when examining our operations generally or considering any request for regulatory approval the Company may make, including requests for approvals on unrelated matters.. Compliance with these capital planning and stress testing requirements has increased our cost of regulatory compliance and necessitated the hiring of additional compliance and other personnel, the design and implementation of additional internal controls and processes, and attention from management. We cannot assure you that our efforts will be deemed sufficient or that we will be deemed to have adequate capital under the hypothetical economic stress scenarios which would affect our ability to take certain capital actions in the future. Compliance with the annual stress testing requirements, part of which must be publicly disclosed, may also be misinterpreted by the market generally or our customers and, as a result, may adversely affect our stock price or our ability to retain our customers or effectively compete for new business opportunities.. Periodically, the SEC adopts amendments to Rules 15c3-1 and 15c3-3 under the Exchange Act related to our broker-dealer segment. The implementation of any new requirements from these amendments may increase our cost of regulatory compliance.. The CFPB has issued \"ability-to-repay\" and \"qualified mortgage\" rules that may have a negative impact on our loan origination process and foreclosure proceedings, which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.. On January 10, 2013, the CFPB issued a final rule to implement the \"qualified mortgage\" provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act requiring mortgage lenders to consider consumers' ability to repay home loans before extending them credit. The CFPB's \"qualified mortgage\" rule took effect on January 10, 2014. The final rule describes certain minimum requirements for lenders making ability-to-repay determinations, but does not dictate that they follow particular underwriting models. Lenders are presumed to have complied with the ability-to-repay rule if they issue \"qualified mortgages,\" which are generally defined as mortgage loans prohibiting or limiting certain risky features. Loans that do not meet the ability-to-repay standard can be challenged in court by borrowers who default and the absence of ability-to-repay status can be used against a lender in foreclosure proceedings. Any loans that we make outside of the \"qualified mortgage\" criteria could expose us to an increased risk of liability and reduce or delay our ability to foreclose on the underlying property. Any increases in compliance and foreclosure costs caused by the rule could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our broker-dealer business is subject to various risks associated with the securities industry.. Our broker-dealer business is subject to uncertainties that are common in the securities industry. These uncertainties include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tintense competition in the public finance and other sectors of the securities industry;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe volatility of domestic and international financial, bond and stock markets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\textensive governmental regulation;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlitigation; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsubstantial fluctuations in the volume and price level of securities.. As a result, the revenues and operating results of our broker-dealer segment may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. Unfavorable financial or economic conditions could reduce the number and size of transactions in which we provide financial advisory, underwriting and other services. Disruptions in fixed income and equity markets could lead to a decline in the volume of transactions executed for customers and, therefore, to declines in revenues from commissions and clearing services. Our broker-dealer business is much smaller and has much less capital than many. 42. Table of Contents. competitors in the securities industry. In addition, the Hilltop Broker-Dealers are operating subsidiaries of Hilltop, which means that their activities are limited to those that are permissible for subsidiaries of a financial holding company.. Market fluctuations could adversely impact our broker-dealer business.. Our broker-dealer segment is subject to risks as a result of fluctuations in the securities markets. Our securities trading, market-making and underwriting activities involve the purchase and sale of securities as a principal, which subjects our capital to significant risks. Market conditions could limit our ability to sell securities purchased or to purchase securities sold in such transactions. If price levels for equity securities decline generally, the market value of equity securities that we hold in our inventory could decrease and trading volumes could decline. In addition, if interest rates increase, the value of debt securities we hold in our inventory would decrease. Rapid or significant market fluctuations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. In addition, during periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain assets if comparable sales become less frequent or market data becomes less observable. Certain classes of assets or loan collateral that were in active markets with significant observable data may become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, asset valuations may require more estimation and subjective judgment.. Our investment advisory business may be affected if our investment products perform poorly.. Poor investment returns and declines in client assets in our investment advisory business, due to either general market conditions or underperformance (relative to our competitors or to benchmarks) by investment products, may affect our ability to retain existing assets, prevent clients from transferring their assets out of products or their accounts, or inhibit our ability to attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients. Any such poor performance could adversely affect our investment advisory business and the advisory fees that we earn on client assets.. Our portfolio trading business is highly price competitive and serves a very limited market.. Our portfolio trading business serves one small component of the capital markets group with a small customer base and a high service model, charging competitive commission rates. Consequently, growing or maintaining market share is very price sensitive. We rely upon a high level of customer service and product customization to maintain our market share; however, should prevailing market prices fall, or the size of our market segment or customer base decline, our profitability would be adversely impacted. In addition, in our portfolio trading business, we purchase securities as principal, which subjects our capital to significant risks.. Our existing correspondents may choose to perform their own clearing services, move their clearing business to one of our competitors or exit the business.. As our correspondents' operations grow, they often consider the option of performing clearing functions themselves, in a process referred to as \"self-clearing.\" The option to convert to self-clearing operations may be attractive due to the fact that as the transaction volume of a broker-dealer grows, the cost of implementing the necessary infrastructure for self-clearing may eventually be offset by the elimination of per transaction processing fees that would otherwise be paid to a clearing firm. Additionally, performing their own clearing services allows self-clearing broker-dealers to retain their customers' margin balances, free credit balances and securities for use in margin lending activities. Furthermore, our correspondents may decide to use the clearing services of one of our competitors or exit the business. Any significant loss of correspondents due to self-clearing or because of their use of a competitor's clearing service or their exiting the business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Several of our broker-dealer segment's product lines rely on favorable tax treatment and changes in federal tax law could impact the attractiveness of these products to our customers.. We offer a variety of services and products, such as individual retirement accounts and municipal bonds, which rely on favorable federal income tax treatment to be attractive to our customers. Should favorable tax treatment of these products be eliminated or reduced, sales of these products could be materially impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. National municipal issuances surged in the fourth quarter of 2017 due to the anticipated effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. A number of national municipal issuers elected to accelerate certain capital raising initiatives before these changes were enacted. As a result, we anticipate lower. 43. Table of Contents. municipal issuance volume in 2018, which could negatively impact our broker-dealer segment's public finance business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. Our mortgage origination segment is subject to investment risk on loans that it originates.. We intend to sell, and not hold for investment, substantially all residential mortgage loans that we originate through PrimeLending. At times, however, we may originate a loan or execute an interest rate lock commitment (\"IRLC\") with a customer pursuant to which we agree to originate a mortgage loan on a future date at an agreed-upon interest rate without having identified a purchaser for such loan. An identified purchaser may also decline to purchase a loan for a variety of reasons. In these instances, we will bear interest rate risk on an IRLC until, and unless, we are able to find a buyer for the loan underlying such IRLC and the risk of investment on a loan until, and unless, we are able to find a buyer for such loan. In addition, in the event of a breach of any representation or warranty concerning a loan, an agency, investor or other third party could, among other things, require us to repurchase the full amount of the loan or seek indemnification for losses from us, even if the loan is not in default. Further, if a customer defaults on a mortgage payment shortly after the loan is originated, the purchaser of the loan may have a put right, whereby the purchaser can require us to repurchase the loan at the full amount that it paid. During periods of market downturn, we may choose to hold mortgage loans when the identified purchasers have declined to purchase such loans because we may not obtain an acceptable substitute bid price for such loan. The failure of mortgage loans that we hold on our books to perform adequately could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Moreover, if a property securing a mortgage loan on which we own the servicing rights is damaged, we may be responsible for repairs for uninsured damage.. Changes in interest rates may change the value of our mortgage servicing rights portfolio which may increase the volatility of our earnings.. As a result of our mortgage servicing business, which we may expand in the future, we have a portfolio of MSR assets. A MSR is the right to service a mortgage loan  -  collect principal, interest and escrow amounts  -  for a fee. We measure and carry all of our residential MSR assets using the fair value measurement method. Fair value is determined as the present value of estimated future net servicing income, calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers.. One of the principal risks associated with MSR assets is that in a declining interest rate environment, they will likely lose a substantial portion of their value as a result of higher than anticipated prepayments. Moreover, if prepayments are greater than expected, the cash we receive over the life of the mortgage loans would be reduced. The mortgage origination segment uses derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and swaptions, and U.S. Treasury bond futures and options as a means to mitigate market risk associated with MSR assets. However, no hedging strategy can protect us completely, and hedging strategies may fail because they are improperly designed, improperly executed and documented or based on inaccurate assumptions and, as a result, could actually increase our risks and losses. The increasing size of our MSR portfolio may increase our interest rate risk and correspondingly, the volatility of our earnings, especially if we cannot adequately hedge the interest rate risk relating to our MSR assets.. At December 31, 2017, the mortgage origination segment's MSR asset had a fair value of $55.8 million. All income related to retained servicing, including changes in the value of the MSR asset, is included in noninterest income. Depending on the interest rate environment, it is possible that the fair value of our MSR asset may be reduced in the future. If such changes in fair value significantly reduce the carrying value of our MSR asset, our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected.. Income that we recognize in connection with the purchase discount of the credit-impaired loans acquired in the Bank Transactions and accounted for under Accounting Standards Codification 310-30 could be volatile in nature and have significant effects on reported net income.. In connection with the Bank Transactions, we acquired loans at an aggregate discount of $523.2 million. The Bank Transactions have each been accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting. Accordingly, the respective discounts are amortized and accreted to interest income on a monthly basis. The effective yield and related discount accretion on credit-impaired loans is initially determined at the acquisition date based upon estimates of the timing and amount of future cash flows as well as the amount of credit losses that will be incurred. These estimates are updated quarterly. In future periods, if actual historical results combined with future projections of these factors (amount, timing, or credit losses) differ from the initial projections, the effective yield and the amount of discount recognized will change. Volatility may increase as the variance of actual results from initial projections increases. As the acquired loans are. 44. Table of Contents. removed from our books, the related discount will no longer be available for accretion into income. Aggregate accretion of $58.4 million on loans purchased at a discount in the Bank Transactions was recorded as interest income during 2017. As of December 31, 2017, the balance of our discount on loans in the aggregate was $120.7 million.. We ultimately may write-off goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from business combinations.. As a result of purchase accounting in connection with our acquisition of NLC, the PlainsCapital Merger, the FNB Transaction and the SWS Merger, our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2017, included goodwill of $251.8 million and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, of $36.4 million. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether facts and circumstances indicate any impairment of value of intangible assets. As circumstances change, we may not realize the value of these intangible assets. If we determine that a material impairment has occurred, we will be required to write-off the impaired portion of intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the write-off occurs.. Based on the results of our annual quantitative analysis as of October 1, 2017, the fair values of each of our reporting units indicated no impairment of goodwill. This analysis and the resulting estimated fair value of our insurance reporting unit exceeded the carrying value by approximately 12%, which represented a decline in estimated excess fair value over carrying value from recent annual goodwill assessments. This decrease in the excess fair value over carrying value from our 2016 assessment to our 2017 assessment was primarily a result of a reduction in projected discounted cash flows driven by the insurance reporting unit's current operating performance being below expectations, which was primarily attributable to catastrophic and sub-catastrophic weather-related events which occurred in 2017. In the event future operating performance is below our forecasted projections, there are negative changes to long-term growth rates or discount rates increase, the fair value of the insurance reporting unit may decline and we may be required to record a goodwill impairment charge.. The accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be affected if we are exposed to actual conditions different from the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies.. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosure in conformity with GAAP requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies, which are included in this Annual Report, describe those significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements that we consider \"critical\" because they require judgments, assumptions and estimates that materially impact our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. As a result, if future events differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, such events or assumptions could have a material impact on our audited consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.. We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of our senior executive officers or other key employees could impair our relationship with customers and adversely affect our business and financial results.. Our success is dependent, to a large degree, upon the continued service and skills of our existing management team and other key employees with long-term customer relationships. Our business and growth strategies are built primarily upon our ability to retain employees with experience and business relationships within their respective segments. The loss of one or more of these key personnel could have an adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of the market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of finding qualified replacement personnel. In addition, we currently do not have non-competition agreements with certain members of management and other key employees. If any of these personnel were to leave and compete with us, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth could suffer.. A decline in the market for municipal advisory services could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our broker-dealer segment has historically earned a significant portion of its revenues from advisory fees paid to it by its clients, in large part upon the successful completion of the client's transaction. New issuances in the municipal market by cities, counties, school districts, state and other governmental agencies, airports, healthcare institutions, institutions of higher education and other clients that the public finance group serves can be subject to significant fluctuations based on factors such as changes in interest rates, property tax bases, budget pressures on certain issuers caused by uncertain economic times and other factors. A decline in the market for municipal advisory services due to the factors listed above could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. 45. Table of Contents. We are subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent acts.. Our banking and mortgage origination businesses expose us to fraud risk from our loan and deposit customers and the parties they do business with, as well as from our employees, contractors and vendors. We rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in credit applications, property appraisals, title information, equipment pricing and valuation, and employment and income documentation, in deciding which loans to originate and the terms of those loans. If any of the information upon which we rely is misrepresented, either fraudulently or negligently, and the misrepresentation is not detected prior to funding, the value of the collateral may be significantly lower than expected, the source of repayment may not exist or may be significantly impaired, or we may fund a loan that we would not have funded or on terms we would not have extended. While we have underwriting and operational controls in place to help detect and prevent such fraud, no such controls are effective to detect or prevent all fraud, and we have experienced losses resulting from fraud in the past. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the applicant, another third party or one of our own employees, we may bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. A loan subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsellable or subject to repurchase if it is sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation.. Our broker-dealer and insurance underwriting activities also expose us to fraud risks. When acting as an underwriter, our broker-dealer segment may be liable jointly and severally under federal, state and foreign securities laws for false and misleading statements concerning the securities, or the issuer of the securities, that it underwrites. We are sometimes brought into lawsuits in connection with our correspondent clearing business based on actions of our correspondents. In addition, we may act as a fiduciary in other capacities that could expose us to liability under such laws or under common law fiduciary principles. Furthermore, our insurance segment's success also depends, in part, on its ability to detect and respond to fraudulent or inflated claims.. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect our business.. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to many different counterparties and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, credit unions, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even negative speculation about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry in general, have led to market-wide liquidity problems in the past and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when we hold collateral that cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the receivable due to us. Any such losses could be material and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Negative publicity regarding us, or financial institutions in general, could damage our reputation and adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Our ability to attract and retain customers and conduct our business could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. Reputational risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion regarding our company, or financial institutions in general, is inherent in our business. Adverse perceptions concerning our reputation could lead to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them. In particular, such negative perceptions could lead to decreases in the level of deposits that consumer and commercial customers and potential customers choose to maintain with us. Negative public opinion could result from actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities or circumstances, including lending or foreclosure practices; sales practices; corporate governance and potential conflicts of interest; ethical failures or fraud, including alleged deceptive or unfair lending or pricing practices; regulatory compliance; protection of customer information; cyber-attacks, whether actual, threatened, or perceived; negative news about us or the financial institutions industry generally; general company performance; or actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to such activities or circumstances. Furthermore, our failure to address, or the perception that we have failed to address, these issues appropriately could impact our ability to keep and attract customers and/or employees and could expose us to litigation and/or regulatory action, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. 46. Table of Contents. We face strong competition from other financial institutions and financial service and insurance companies, which may adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. Our banking segment primarily competes with national, regional and community banks within various markets where the Bank operates. The Bank also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies and credit unions. A number of these banks and other financial institutions have substantially greater resources and lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of banking services than we do. We also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage and investment banking firms, consumer finance companies, pension trusts, insurance companies and governmental organizations, each of which may offer more favorable financing than we are able to provide. In addition, some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. The banking business in Texas has remained competitive over the past several years, and we expect the level of competition we face to further increase. Competition for deposits and in providing lending products and services to consumers and businesses in our market area is intense and pricing is important. Other factors encountered in competing for savings deposits are convenient office locations, interest rates and fee structures of products offered. Direct competition for savings deposits also comes from other commercial bank and thrift institutions, money market mutual funds and corporate and government securities that may offer more attractive rates than insured depository institutions are willing to pay. Competition for loans is based on factors such as interest rates, loan origination fees and the range of services offered by the provider. We seek to distinguish ourselves from our competitors through our commitment to personalized customer service and responsiveness to customer needs while providing a range of competitive loan and deposit products and other services. Our profitability depends on our ability to compete effectively in these markets. This competition may reduce or limit our margins on banking services, reduce our market share and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The financial advisory and investment banking industries also are intensely competitive industries and will likely remain competitive. Our broker-dealer business competes directly with numerous other financial advisory and investment banking firms, broker-dealers and banks, including large national and major regional firms and smaller niche companies, some of whom are not broker-dealers and, therefore, not subject to the broker-dealer regulatory framework. In addition to competition from firms currently in the industry, there has been increasing competition from others offering financial services, including automated trading and other services based on technological innovations. Our broker-dealer business competes on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of advice and service, technology, product selection, innovation, reputation, client relationships and price. Increased pressure created by any current or future competitors, or by competitors of our broker-dealer business collectively, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Increased competition may result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. Further, as a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, our broker-dealer business may from time to time make certain pricing, service or marketing decisions that also could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our mortgage origination business faces vigorous competition from banks and other financial institutions, including large financial institutions as well as independent mortgage banking companies, commercial banks, savings banks and savings and loan associations. Our mortgage origination segment competes on a number of factors including customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates, closing process and duration, and loan origination fees. The ability to attract and retain skilled mortgage origination professionals is critical to our mortgage origination business. We seek to distinguish ourselves from our competitors through our commitment to personalized customer service and responsiveness to customer needs while providing a range of competitive mortgage loan products and services.. The insurance industry also is highly competitive and has, historically, been characterized by periods of significant price competition, alternating with periods of greater pricing discipline during which competitors focus on other factors, including service, experience, the strength of agent and policyholder relationships, reputation, speed and accuracy of claims payment, perceived financial strength, ratings, scope of business, commissions paid and policy and contract terms and conditions. Our insurance business competes with many other insurers, including large national companies that have greater financial, marketing and management resources than our insurance segment. Many of these competitors also have better ratings and market recognition than our insurance business.. In addition, a number of new, proposed or potential industry developments also could increase competition in our insurance segment's industry. These developments include changes in practices and other effects caused by the Internet (including direct marketing campaigns by our insurance segment's competitors in established and new geographic markets), which have led to greater competition in the insurance business and increased expectations for customer service.. 47. Table of Contents. These developments could prevent our insurance business from expanding its book of business. Our insurance business also faces competition from new entrants into the insurance market. New entrants do not have historic claims or losses to address and, therefore, may be able to price policies on a basis that is not favorable to our insurance business. New competition could reduce the demand for our insurance segment's insurance products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If the actual losses and loss adjustment expenses of our insurance segment exceed its loss and expense estimates, its financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. The financial condition and results of operations of our insurance segment depend upon its ability to assess accurately the potential losses associated with the risks that it insures. Our insurance segment establishes reserve liabilities to cover the payment of all losses and loss adjustment expenses (\"LAE\") incurred under the policies that it writes. These liability estimates include case estimates, which are established for specific claims that have been reported to our insurance segment, and liabilities for claims that have been incurred but not reported (\"IBNR\"). LAE represent expenses incurred to investigate and settle claims. To the extent that losses and LAE exceed estimates, NLIC and ASIC will be required to increase their reserve liabilities and reduce their income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. In addition, increasing reserves causes a reduction in policyholders' surplus and could cause a downgrade in the ratings of NLIC and ASIC. This, in turn, could diminish our ability to sell insurance policies.. The liability estimation process for our insurance segment's casualty insurance coverage possesses characteristics that make case and IBNR reserving inherently less susceptible to accurate actuarial estimation than is the case with property coverages. Unlike property losses, casualty losses are claims made by third-parties of which the policyholder may not be aware and, therefore, may be reported a significant time after the occurrence, including sometimes years later. As casualty claims most often involve claims of bodily injury, assessment of the proper case estimates is a far more subjective process than claims involving property damage. In addition, in determining the case estimate for a casualty claim, information develops slowly over the life of the claim and can subject the case estimation to substantial modification well after the claim was first reported. Numerous factors impact the casualty case reserving process, such as venue, the amount of monetary damage, legislative activity, the permanence of the injury and the age of the claimant.. The effects of inflation could cause the severity of claims from catastrophes or other events to rise in the future. Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of policyholder property and the effects of inflation have resulted in increased severity of industry losses in recent years, and our insurance segment expects that these factors will increase the severity of losses in the future. The severity of some catastrophic weather events, including the scope and extent of damage and the inability to gain access to damaged properties, and the ensuing shortages of labor and materials and resulting demand surge, provide additional challenges to estimating ultimate losses. Our insurance segment's liabilities for losses and LAE include assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims handling expenses, such as medical treatments and litigation costs. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above liabilities established for these costs, our insurance segment expects to be required to increase its liabilities, together with a corresponding reduction in its net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified.. Estimating an appropriate level of liabilities for losses and LAE is an inherently uncertain process. Accordingly, actual loss and LAE paid will likely deviate, perhaps substantially, from the liability estimates reflected in our insurance segment's consolidated financial statements. Claims could exceed our insurance segment's estimate for liabilities for losses and LAE, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. If our insurance segment cannot obtain adequate reinsurance protection for the risks it underwrites or its reinsurers do not pay losses in a timely fashion, or at all, our insurance segment will suffer greater losses from these risks or may reduce the amount of business it underwrites, which may materially adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations.. Our insurance segment purchases reinsurance to protect itself from certain risks and to share certain risks it underwrites. During 2017, our insurance segment's personal lines ceded 8.3% of its direct insurance premiums written (primarily through excess of loss, quota share and catastrophe reinsurance treaties) and its commercial lines ceded 6.2% of its direct insurance premiums written (primarily through excess of loss and catastrophe reinsurance treaties). The total cost of reinsurance, inclusive of per risk excess and catastrophe, increased 13.7% during 2017, compared with 2016, which was primarily attributable to reinstatement premium associated with Hurricane Harvey, offset by lower premium rates. Reinsurance cost generally fluctuates as a result of storm costs or any changes in capacity within the reinsurance market.. 48. Table of Contents. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that they have considered adequate for their business needs. Accordingly, our insurance segment may not be able to obtain desired amounts of reinsurance. Even if our insurance segment is able to obtain adequate reinsurance, it may not be able to obtain it from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness or negotiate terms that it deems appropriate or acceptable. Although the cost of reinsurance is, in some cases, reflected in our insurance segment's premium rates, our insurance segment may have guaranteed certain premium rates to its policyholders. Under these circumstances, if the cost of reinsurance were to increase with respect to policies for which our insurance segment guaranteed the rates, our insurance segment would be adversely affected. In addition, if our insurance segment cannot obtain adequate reinsurance protection for the risks it underwrites, it may be exposed to greater losses from these risks or it may be forced to reduce the amount of business that it underwrites for such risks, which will reduce our insurance segment's revenue and may have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition.. At December 31, 2017, our insurance segment had $13.1 million in reinsurance recoverables and receivables, including ceded paid loss recoverables, ceded losses and LAE recoverables and ceded unearned insurance premiums. Our insurance segment expects to continue to purchase substantial reinsurance coverage in the foreseeable future. Because our insurance segment remains primarily liable to its policyholders for the payment of their claims, regardless of the reinsurance it has purchased relating to those claims, in the event that one of its reinsurers becomes insolvent or otherwise refuses to reimburse our insurance segment for losses paid, or delays in reimbursing our insurance segment for losses paid, its liability for these claims could materially and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to legal claims and litigation, including potential securities law liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We face significant legal risks in each of the business segments in which we operate, and the volume of legal claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial service companies remains high. These risks often are difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us or any of our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business and prospects. Further, regulatory inquiries and subpoenas, other requests for information, or testimony in connection with litigation may require incurrence of significant expenses, including fees for legal representation and fees associated with document production. These costs may be incurred even if we are not a target of the inquiry or a party to the litigation. Any financial liability or reputational damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Further, in the normal course of business, our broker-dealer segment has been subject to claims by customers and clients alleging unauthorized trading, churning, mismanagement, suitability of investments, breach of fiduciary duty or other alleged misconduct by our employees or brokers. We are sometimes brought into lawsuits based on allegations concerning our correspondents. As underwriters, we are subject to substantial potential liability for material misstatements and omissions in prospectuses and other communications with respect to underwritten offerings of securities. Prolonged litigation producing significant legal expenses or a substantial settlement or adverse judgment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We may be subject to environmental liabilities in connection with the foreclosure on real estate assets securing the loan portfolio of our banking segment.. Hazardous or toxic substances or other environmental hazards may be located on the real estate that secures our loans. If we acquire such properties as a result of foreclosure, or otherwise, we could become subject to various environmental liabilities. For example, we could be held liable for the cost of cleaning up or otherwise addressing contamination at or from these properties. We could also be held liable to a governmental entity or third party for property damage, personal injury or other claims relating to any environmental contamination at or from these properties. In addition, we could be held liable for costs relating to environmental contamination at or from our current or former properties. We may not detect all environmental hazards associated with these properties. If we ever became subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be harmed.. 49. Table of Contents. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide timely and reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, our financial statements may not accurately reflect our financial condition. Inadequate internal controls over financial reporting could impact the reliability and timeliness of our financial reports and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on our business and the value of our securities.. The debt agreements of our insurance segment and its controlled affiliates contain financial covenants and impose restrictions on its business.. The surplus indentures governing NLIC's two LIBOR plus 4.10% and 4.05% notes due May and September 2033, respectively, and ASIC's LIBOR plus 4.05% notes due April 2034 contain restrictions on the ability to, among other things, declare and pay dividends and merge or consolidate. In addition, NLC has other credit arrangements with its affiliates and other third-parties.. NLC's ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of any of these restrictions could result in a default under the loan agreements or indentures governing the notes or under its other debt agreements. An event of default under its debt agreements would permit some of its lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If NLC were unable to repay debt to its secured lenders, these lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that debt. In addition, acceleration of its other indebtedness may cause NLC to be unable to make interest payments on the notes. Other agreements that NLC or its insurance company subsidiaries may enter into in the future may contain covenants imposing significant restrictions on their respective businesses that are similar to, or in addition to, the covenants under their respective existing agreements. These restrictions may affect NLC's ability to operate its business and may limit its ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise.. Risks Related to our Substantial Cash Position and Related Strategies for its Use. Because we may use a substantial portion of our remaining available cash to make acquisitions or effect a business combination, we may become subject to risks inherent in pursuing and completing any such acquisitions or business combination.. We are endeavoring to make acquisitions or effect business combinations with a substantial portion of our remaining available cash. We may not, however, be able to identify suitable targets, consummate acquisitions or effect a combination on commercially acceptable terms or, if consummated, successfully integrate personnel and operations.. The success of any acquisition or business combination will depend upon, among other things, the ability of management and our employees to integrate personnel, operations, products and technologies effectively, to attract, retain and motivate key personnel and to retain customers and clients of targets. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees. In addition, the integration of certain operations will require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract management's attention from our day-to-day business. Any inability to realize the full extent, or any, of the anticipated cost savings and financial benefits of The Bank of River Oaks pending acquisition or any other acquisitions we make, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and cause a decrease in our earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the acquisitions and contribute to a decrease in the price of our common stock. In addition, any acquisition or business combination we undertake may consume available cash resources, result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and divert management's attention from other business concerns. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business that we acquire or with which we merge, our diligence may not surface all material issues that may adversely affect a particular target business, and we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Consequently, we also may need to make further investments to support the acquired or combined company and may have difficulty identifying and acquiring the appropriate resources.. 50. Table of Contents. We may enter, through acquisitions or a business combination, into new lines of business or initiate new service offerings subject to the restrictions imposed upon us as a regulated financial holding company. Accordingly, there is no basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular target business with which we may combine or that we may ultimately acquire.. Subject to the restrictions imposed upon us as a regulated financial holding company, we may also use available cash to make investments in companies engaged in non-financial activities. These investments could decline in value and are likely to be substantially less liquid than exchange-listed securities, if we are able to sell them at all. If we are required to sell these investments quickly, we may receive significantly less value than if we could have otherwise have sold them. Losses on these investments could have an adverse impact on our profitability, results of operations and financial condition.. There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or repurchase stock.. In October 2016, we announced that our board of directors authorized a dividend program under which we intend to pay quarterly dividends on our common stock, subject to quarterly declarations by our board of directors. During 2017, we declared and paid cash dividends of $0.24 per common share. In January 2017, our board of directors reauthorized the stock repurchase program originally approved during the second quarter of 2016 through January 2018, under which it authorized us to repurchase, in the aggregate, up to $50.0 million of our outstanding common stock. During 2017, we paid $27.4 million to repurchase an aggregate of 1,057,656 shares of our common stock at an average price of $25.87 per share. In January 2018, our board of directors authorized a stock repurchase program through January 2019. Pursuant to the stock repurchase program, we are authorized to repurchase, in the aggregate, up to $50.0 million of our outstanding common stock.. Any future declarations, amount and timing of any dividends and/or the amount and timing of such stock repurchases are subject to capital availability and the discretion of our board of directors, which must evaluate, among other things, whether cash dividends and/or stock repurchases are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all applicable laws and any agreements containing provisions that limit our ability to declare and pay cash dividends and/or repurchase stock. Our ability to pay dividends and/or repurchase stock will depend upon, among other factors, our cash balances and potential future capital requirements for strategic transactions, including acquisitions, the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to Hilltop, capital adequacy requirements and other regulatory restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, policies of the Federal Reserve Board, equity and debt service requirements senior to our common stock, earnings, financial condition, the general economic and regulatory climate and other factors beyond our control that our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, the amount we spend and the number of shares we are able to repurchase under our stock repurchase program may further be affected by a number of other factors, including the stock price and blackout periods in which we are restricted from repurchasing shares. Our dividend payments and/or stock repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends and/or repurchase stock in any particular amounts or at all. A reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments, our dividend program and/or stock repurchases could have a negative effect on our stock price.. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the yield on our available cash.. Our primary objective is to preserve and maintain the liquidity of our available cash, while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. The capital and credit markets recently experienced volatility and disruption for a prolonged period. This volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels, resulting in dramatic declines in interest rates and other yields relative to risk. This downward pressure has negatively affected the yields we receive on our available cash. There can be no assurance that we will receive any significant yield on our available cash or that we will be able to preserve our available cash.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. We may issue shares of preferred stock or additional shares of common stock to complete an acquisition or effect a combination or under an employee incentive plan after consummation of an acquisition or combination, which would dilute the interests of our stockholders and likely present other risks.. The issuance of shares of preferred stock or additional shares of common stock:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmay significantly dilute the equity interest of our stockholders;. 51. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmay subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded our common stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcould cause a change in control if a substantial number of shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmay adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock.. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may designate and issue one or more additional series of preferred stock from the authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock. Subject to limitations imposed by law or our articles of incorporation, our board of directors is empowered to determine the designation and number of shares constituting each series of preferred stock, as well as any designations, qualifications, privileges, limitations, restrictions or special or relative rights of additional series. The rights of preferred stockholders may supersede the rights of common stockholders. Preferred stock could be issued with voting and conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting power of the shares of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could also result in a series of securities outstanding that would have preferences over the common stock with respect to dividends and in liquidation.. Our common stock price may experience substantial volatility, which may affect your ability to sell our common stock at an advantageous price.. Price volatility of our common stock may affect your ability to sell our common stock at an advantageous price. Market price fluctuations in our common stock may arise due to acquisitions, dispositions or other material public announcements, including those regarding dividends or changes in management, along with a variety of additional factors, including, without limitation, other risks identified in \"Forward-looking Statements\" and these \"Risk Factors.\" In addition, the stock markets in general, including the NYSE, have experienced extreme price and trading fluctuations. These fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Existing circumstances may result in several of our directors having interests that may conflict with our interests.. A director who has a conflict of interest with respect to an issue presented to our board will have no inherent legal obligation to abstain from voting upon that issue. We do not have provisions in our bylaws or charter that require an interested director to abstain from voting upon an issue, and we do not expect to add provisions in our charter and bylaws to this effect. Although each director has a duty to act in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests, there is a risk that, should interested directors vote upon an issue in which they or one of their affiliates has an interest, their vote may reflect a bias that could be contrary to our best interests. In addition, even if an interested director abstains from voting, the director's participation in the meeting and discussion of an issue in which they have, or companies with which they are associated have, an interest could influence the votes of other directors regarding the issue.. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited.. We are organized under Maryland law, which provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, our charter eliminates our directors' and officers' liability to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services or active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment and that is material to the cause of action. Our bylaws require us to indemnify our directors and officers for liability resulting from actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, our stockholders and we may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers.. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Authority to Issue Additional Shares. Under our charter, our board of directors may issue up to an aggregate of ten million shares of preferred stock without stockholder action. The preferred stock may be issued, in one or more series, with the. 52. Table of Contents. preferences and other terms designated by our board of directors that may delay or prevent a change in control of us, even if the change is in the best interests of stockholders. At December 31, 2017, no shares of preferred stock were outstanding.. Banking Laws. Any change in control of our company is subject to prior regulatory approval under the Bank Holding Company Act or the Change in Bank Control Act, which may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of us.. Insurance Laws. NLIC and ASIC are domiciled in the State of Texas. Before a person can acquire control of an insurance company domiciled in Texas, prior written approval must be obtained from the TDI. Acquisition of control would be presumed on the acquisition, directly or indirectly, of ten percent or more of our outstanding voting stock, unless the regulators determine otherwise. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer, the TDI will consider several factors, such as:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe financial strength of the acquirer;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe integrity and management experience of the acquirer's board of directors and executive officers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe acquirer's plans for the management of the insurer;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe acquirer's plans to declare dividends, sell assets or incur debt;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe acquirer's plans for the future operations of the domestic insurer;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe impact of the acquisition on continued licensure of the domestic insurer;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe impact on the interests of Texas policyholders; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany anti-competitive results that may arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control.. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals for us and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, including transactions that some or all of our stockholders might consider desirable.. FINRA. Any change in control (as defined under FINRA rules) of any of the Hilltop Broker-Dealers, including through acquisition, is subject to prior regulatory approval by FINRA which may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or other change in control of such broker-dealers.. Restrictions on Calling Special Meeting, Cumulative Voting and Director Removal. Our bylaws includes a provision prohibiting holders that do not or have not owned, continuously for at least one year as of the record date of such proposed meeting, capital stock representing at least 15% of the shares entitled to be voted at such proposed meeting, from calling a special meeting of stockholders. Our charter does not provide for the cumulative voting in the election of directors. In addition, our charter provides that our directors may only be removed for cause and then only by an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. Any amendment to our charter relating to the removal of directors requires the affirmative vote of two-thirds of all of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. These provisions of our bylaws and charter may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of us.. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit.. An investment in our common stock is not a bank deposit and is not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC, SIPC, the TDI or any other government agency. Accordingly, you should be capable of affording the loss of any investment in our common stock."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
