[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to significant risks, including the risks and uncertainties described below. You should carefully consider these risks, as well as the other information in this 2017 Form 10-K, including our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes. The occurrence of any of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows in a material way.. Risks Relating to Our Company. Our ability to expand our business will be adversely affected if we fail to implement our growth strategy.. The size and the scope of our business operations have expanded over the past several years, and we currently intend to continue to grow and expand into new areas of the healthcare industry; however, such growth and expansion carries costs and risks that, if not properly managed, could adversely affect our business. Our future growth will depend on, among other things, our ability to successfully execute our business plans, which includes retaining existing customers, attracting new customers and improving our operations, all while remaining competitive. We must also be flexible and responsive to our customers' needs and to changes in the political, economic and regulatory environment in which we operate. The greater size and complexity of our expanding business puts additional strain on our administrative, operational and financial resources and can make optimal resource allocation more difficult to determine. We may not be able to maintain or accelerate our growth. A failure to anticipate or properly address the demands and challenges that our growth strategy and potential diversification may have on our resources and existing infrastructure may result in unanticipated costs and inefficiencies and could negatively impact our ability to execute on our business plans and growth goals, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If we fail to innovate and develop new or enhanced solutions and services, or if these solutions and services are not adopted by our customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Part of our growth strategy depends on our ability to respond to the evolving healthcare landscape with new and enhanced solutions and services that our existing and potential customers are willing to adopt. The development, marketing and implementation of these solutions and services may require that we make substantial financial and resource investments. We face risks that our new or modified solutions and services may not be responsive to customer preferences or industry changes, and that the solution and service development initiatives that we prioritize may not yield the gains that we anticipate, if any. If we are unable to predict market preferences or healthcare industry changes, or if we are unable to develop or adapt solutions and services that are responsive to existing and potential customers' needs, we may fail to expand our business, which could constrain our future revenue growth and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our acquisition strategy may subject us to considerable business and financial risk.. Historically, to achieve our strategic goals, we have made a significant number of acquisitions that have expanded the solutions and services we offer, provided a presence in complementary business lines, or expanded our geographic presence and/or customer base. For example, we acquired IntegriGuard, LLC in September 2009; Verify Solutions, Inc. in December 2009; Allied Management Group-Special Investigation Unit in June 2010; Chapman Kelly, Inc. in August 2010; HDI in December 2011; MedRecovery Management, LLC in December 2012; Essette in September 2016; and Eliza in April 2017.. 11. We intend to pursue future acquisitions that will continue to expand and diversify our business and to periodically engage in discussions regarding such possible acquisitions. We are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to our ability to identify suitable potential acquisition candidates, to consummate additional acquisitions that will be advantageous to us, and to successfully integrate future acquisitions. Future and potential business acquisitions involve a number of risk factors that could affect our operations, including, but not limited to:. §diversion of management's attention and other resources;. §our ability to successfully and timely integrate operational, accounting and technology functions, policies, processes, systems and controls, and to implement these functions, policies, processes, systems and controls, without incurring substantial expenses, delays, difficulties or other issues;. §our ability to integrate personnel and human resource systems as well as the cultures of the acquired business;. §our ability to retain or replace the key personnel of the acquired business;. §our ability to maintain relationships with the customers of the acquired business and further develop the acquired business;. §our ability to cross-sell our solutions and services and the solutions and services of the acquired business to our respective customers;. §customer dissatisfaction or performance problems with the acquired business;. §our ability to comply with regulatory requirements and avoid potential conflicts of interest in markets that we serve;. §the misuse of intellectual property by the personnel of the acquired business;. §our ability to successfully enter into unfamiliar markets;. §assumption of unanticipated legal or financial liabilities and/or negative publicity related to prior acts by the acquired business;. §we may become subject to litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired business, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former shareholders or third parties;. §we may become significantly leveraged as a result of incurring debt to finance an acquisition;. §the acquired business may not perform as projected which could negatively impact earnings or contingent consideration;. §we may suffer impairment of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets; and. §we may suffer dilution to our earnings per share.. If we fail to adequately address these risks, or to successfully integrate the businesses that we acquire, we may not realize cost efficiencies, synergies or other benefits that we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates, and our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. You will not be able to rely on our operating results in any particular period as an indication of our future performance because they are subject to significant fluctuation which may cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly.. Our revenue and operating results may fail to match our past or projected performance and could vary significantly from period-to-period as a result of a number of factors, some of which are outside of our control. We have experienced fluctuations in our revenue and operating results in the past and they may vary in the future for reasons that include, but are not limited to:. §fluctuations in sales activity given our sales cycle;. §the length of contract and implementation periods;. §the commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter;. §contract costs and expenses, which may be incurred in periods prior to revenue being recognized;. §the timing of period revenue recovery projects and third party payers' claim adjudication;. §the billing and budgeting cycles of our customers;. §the timing of government procurement activities, including when contract awards are announced and the time required to resolve bid protests;. §contract renewal discussions, which may result in delayed payments for services already performed;. §changes in the pricing structure or other significant terms in our contract, or the scope of services we perform;. §technological and operational issues affecting our customers, including delays in payment receipt for previously recognized revenue due to delays in certain customers processing our findings through their systems, and restrictions on our ability to use or access certain data or a lack of integrity or quality in the data or information we receive from certain data sources;. §adjustments to age/quality of receivables and accruals as a result of factors such as delays involving contract limitations or changes, subcontractor performance deficiencies or internal managerial decisions not to pursue identified claim revenue from customers;. 12. §the impact of service disruptions or delays in the systems or operations of subcontractors, partners, vendors and other third party providers on which we rely on to deliver a single-source solution or service to our customers;. §changes in applicable laws;. §changes in accounting policies or guidelines concerning the timing of recognition of revenue; and. §regulatory changes or general economic conditions as they affect healthcare providers and payers.. We cannot predict the extent to which future variations could occur due to these or other factors. In addition, occasionally our state and federal customers are requested by third party payers to refund payments that we previously recovered for our customers. If our state and federal customers choose to refund money in response to these requests, regardless of whether an error actually occurred in connection with the payments, we may also be required to return contingent revenue which we were previously paid associated with such refunded payment. Consequently, our operating results are subject to significant fluctuation for any particular quarter, fiscal year, or other period, and may not be indicative of future periods. Our business is also subject to seasonal patterns resulting from increased efforts at year-end by certain customers to generate additional savings, complete compliance obligations and close gaps in care. However, taken as a whole, we do not consider our operations to be seasonal to any material degree. Due to all of these factors, our revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and are subject to significant fluctuation, which may cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly.. We face challenges associated with forecasting the revenue under our contracts, and any failure to accurately forecast such revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may not be able to accurately estimate the factors upon which we base our contract pricing, or the costs and timing for implementing and completing contracts. For a majority of our customer contracts, the payment of our fee is contingent upon the recoveries received by our customers. We also have cost-plus or time-and-material based contracts with the federal government where our revenue is recognized based on costs incurred plus an estimate of the negotiated fee earned. Our ability to earn a profit on these contracts requires that we accurately estimate the costs involved with these contracts and assess the probability of achieving certain outcomes or milestones within the contracted time period. In addition, we cannot predict with certainty the costs or the period in which implementation or contracts may be completed when we introduce new solutions or services into the marketplace. We may also face a long implementation period with a new customer or a new contract with an existing customer, making it difficult to reliably forecast revenue under those contracts. If we do not accurately estimate the costs and timing for completing projects, or if we encounter increased or unexpected costs, delays, failures, liabilities or risks, including those outside of our control, our contracts could prove unprofitable for us or yield lower profit margins than anticipated. Although we believe that we have recorded adequate provisions in our financial statements for losses on our fixed-price and cost-plus contracts where applicable, as required under U.S. GAAP, our contract loss provisions may not be adequate to cover all actual future losses.. System interruptions or failures could expose us to liability and harm our business.. Our data and operation centers are essential to our business and our operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our information systems. We attempt to mitigate the potential adverse effects of a disruption, relocation or change in operating environment; however, the situations we plan for and the amount of insurance coverage that we maintain may not be adequate in every case. Despite systems redundancy and security measures, our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from, among other sources:. §power loss, transmission cable cuts and telecommunications failures;. §fire, flood, earthquake and other natural disasters;. §hardware failures or software defects;. §operator error;. §cyber security breaches; and. §physical break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control.. 13. In addition, while there are backup systems in many of our operating facilities, an extended outage of utility or network services supplied by third party IT vendors or providers may delay or disrupt the delivery or performance of the solutions and services we provide for our customers. If we encounter a lengthy business interruption, or in the event our business continuity plans and business interruption insurance coverage are not adequate or fail to compensate us on a timely basis, we could suffer operational disruptions, disputes with customers, civil or criminal penalties, regulatory problems, increases in administrative expenses, loss of our ability to produce timely and accurate financial and other reports, damage to our reputation or customer relationships or other adverse consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our systems and networks and those of third parties on which we rely may be subject to cyber security breaches and other disruptions that could compromise our information and harm our business.. In the ordinary course of our business, we rely heavily upon our technology systems and networks, as well as on the products and services of third-party providers, to input, transmit, maintain and communicate the confidential and proprietary data we receive from our customers and other data suppliers (e.g. private insurance plans, financial institutions, etc.). In addition, subcontractors, teaming partners or other third-party vendors may receive or utilize this information on our behalf in support of the services we perform for our customers. The secure processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Although we have spent significant resources to implement security and privacy programs and controls, train our workforce and augment our security measures with the implementation of new technologies and processes, our information technology and infrastructure, and those of third parties on which we rely, have been, and will likely continue to be subject to computer hacking, acts of vandalism or theft, malware, computer viruses or other malicious codes, phishing, employee error or malfeasance, catastrophes, unforeseen events or other cyber-attacks. To date, we have seen no material impact on our business or operations from these attacks, however, we may be unable to implement adequate preventive measures to protect against such compromises in the future or to effectively adapt our security measures to evolving security risks. As a result, our technology systems, including our data and our customers' data, could be accessed improperly, made unavailable, improperly modified, corrupted or otherwise breached or compromised, or we could suffer system disruptions, shutdowns and denials of service. Similarly, we could be materially adversely affected by the loss of proprietary, trade secret or confidential technical and financial data if our internal networks are compromised. The occurrence of any of these events could harm the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures, lead to reputational damage or the loss of our customers' confidence in our solutions and services, negatively affect our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to terminate or not renew our solutions and services, or to deter them from using our solutions or services in the future, all of which could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses and expose us to potential liability under privacy, security or other applicable laws and regulations. We could also be forced to expend significant resources in response to a security breach, including investigating the cause of the breach, repairing system damage, remediating vulnerabilities in our security procedures, increasing cyber security protection costs by deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, paying regulatory fines and litigation costs, and resolving legal claims and regulatory actions, all of which could increase our expenses, divert the attention of our management and key personnel away from our business operations and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, information, processes, know-how, and other intellectual property and intellectual property rights, or become subject to claims of infringing or misappropriating the intellectual property of third parties, the value of our solutions and services may be diminished and our business may be materially adversely affected.. Our success as a company depends in part upon our ability to protect our core technology and intellectual property. Our expanding operations and efforts to develop new solutions and services also make protection of our intellectual property more critical. We seek to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary information through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and unfair competition laws, confidentiality agreements and invention assignment agreements with employees, consultants and other third parties, as well as through the terms of our agreements with customers and vendors, and other security measures. However, the steps we have taken to deter misappropriation of intellectual property may be insufficient to protect our proprietary information. Misappropriation of our intellectual property by third parties, or any disclosure or dissemination of our confidential and proprietary business intelligence, queries, algorithms and other similar information by any means, could undermine any competitive advantage we currently derive or may derive from that intellectual property. For example, our current or former employees, consultants or other third parties may unintentionally or willfully disclose our trade secrets, know-how or other confidential and proprietary information to competitors. Competitors have also attempted to use state open records and/or federal Freedom of Information Act laws to obtain our proposal responses and other documents we provide to our government customers. We cannot be certain that our efforts to protect the confidential and proprietary trade secret information or intellectual property in these proposals or other documents will always be successful, due to the many factors underlying the various state and federal decisions to release information in response to open records requests (even in spite of our objections and efforts to protect such information). In addition, there remains the possibility that others will independently develop competing technologies that may be equivalent or superior to ours. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights are inadequate to prevent unauthorized use or appropriation by third parties or our employees, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished and others may be able to more effectively compete with our business by offering solutions or concepts that are substantially similar to ours, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 14. In addition, third parties may claim that we are infringing upon or misappropriating their intellectual property, or assert other legal challenges to our intellectual property. Our exposure to risks related to the use of intellectual property may also increase as a result of acquisitions because third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology. Any of these situations could cause us to expend significant time and resources and to incur substantial costs associated with litigation or legal proceedings that may be necessary to defend ourselves or to enforce our intellectual property rights, in which we may not ultimately prevail, and could result in our being prevented from furnishing certain solutions and services.. We face significant competition for our solutions and services and we expect competition to increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The market for healthcare cost containment solutions is intensely competitive, driven by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards and customer demands to become more efficient. Our competitors range in size from large, diversified national companies to small, specialized firms, and could include current or former subcontractors or teaming partners seeking to establish direct relationships with our customers in order to perform similar services as the prime contractor, as well as current and prospective customers that elect to perform recovery and cost avoidance functions in-house or to develop in-house capacities for solutions and services that we provide or hope to provide. Consolidation among vendors and healthcare providers, as well as the merging of some of our competitors or formation of business alliances with other competitors, have contributed to the increasingly competitive environment. For example, certain state customers have combined or \"bundled\" TPL services under large-scale IT procurements, allowing MMIS vendors to partner with less experienced TPL identification vendors based on preferred relationships or favorable pricing. In addition, companies that have invested in proprietary technology different from our own solution and service offerings, such as front-end analytics, have emerged as new competitors due to the rapidly evolving healthcare landscape. There is also increasing sophistication in the solutions and services that our competitors are developing that may become more efficient or appealing to our customers. In order to remain competitive, we may need to quickly develop and market new and enhanced solutions and services responsive to emerging technologies and changes in the healthcare industry, which may require that we make substantial financial and resource investments.. We may not be able to compete successfully against our existing or future competitors. Some of these competitors have significantly greater financial and technical resources, and others have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we do in certain markets. They may be able to (i) offer lower prices or negotiate fee reductions on our current solutions and services, (ii) respond more quickly than we can to new and emerging technologies and changing customer requirements, (iii) devote greater resources to the sale of their products and the development and implementation of new and improved systems, solutions and services for customers that we serve, and (iv) pursue various acquisitions that allow them to rapidly amass a wide array of capabilities. We may be forced to lower our pricing, unexpectedly increase or enhance our technological or data capabilities, or modify our solution or service offerings. Notwithstanding any changes we make in response to increased competition, the demand for our solutions and services may decrease as a result of increased competition. A failure to be responsive to our existing and potential customers' needs or the changing industry landscape could hinder our ability to maintain or expand our customer base, hire and retain new employees, pursue new business opportunities, complete future acquisitions and operate our business effectively. Any inability to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 15. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we fail to maintain a high level of customer retention, if our customers elect to reduce the scope of our contracts or terminate them before their scheduled expiration dates or if we fail to meet performance standards under our customer contracts.. We historically have derived and expect to continue to generate a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of large customers at the federal and state level. Our contracts with these customers are subject to periodic renewal and some permit them to terminate their contracts on short notice, with or without cause. If a customer is dissatisfied with the quality of our work or if we fail to meet performance standards under our contracts, or if our solutions, technical infrastructure or services do not comply with the provisions of our contractual agreements or applicable regulatory requirements, customers might seek to reduce the scope of the services we perform or prematurely terminate their agreements with us, or we could incur additional costs that may impair the profitability of a contract and damage our ability to obtain additional work from that customer, or other current or prospective customers. For example, some of our contracts contain liquidated damages provisions and financial penalties related to performance failures, which if triggered, could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We also may be required to disclose such liquidated damages or other financial penalties assessed against us in connection with future bids for services with other customers.. In addition, government customers are subject to financial pressures or pressure from stakeholders that may cause them to terminate contracts for our services that may be regarded as non-essential or to redefine or reduce the scope of our contracts by, for example, significantly reducing the volume of data that we are permitted to audit or renewing the contract at lower performance fee levels. Despite our right to prompt and full payment under the terms of our contracts, we could face challenges in obtaining timely or full payments for our properly provided services from our customers. If there is a substantial reduction in the scope of our services under, or a termination of, any of our key contracts with our major customers, or if we are exposed to significant costs, liabilities or negative publicity, our ability to compete for new contracts with current or prospective customer could be damaged and our business, financial condition, reputation, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Any failure to maintain effective information processing systems and the integrity of the data in, and operations of, those systems could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our ability to conduct our operations and accurately report our financial results depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems and the processes performed by those systems. As a result of the services we provide, we process a number of complex transactions that require us to access, store, retrieve, manipulate, manage and transmit our customers' information and data, external data, as well as our own data. Although we have invested a great deal of time and resources in developing systems, processes and controls that protect the integrity of the data, such measures cannot provide absolute security. It is possible that failures or errors in hardware and software, including those in third-party technology, or technical deficiencies in our systems could result in data loss or corruption, or cause the data that we collect, utilize or disseminate to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant. In addition, these information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs, satisfy customer requests and handle our expansion and growth. Despite our testing and quality control measures, we cannot be certain that errors or system deficiencies will not be found and that remediation can be done in a timeframe that is acceptable to our customers, or that customer relationships will not be impaired by the occurrence of errors or the need for remediation. In addition, implementation of upgrades and enhancements may cost more, take longer or require more testing than originally expected. Situations may also arise in which the accuracy of our data analysis or the content and quality of our work product is central to the disposition of claims, controversies or litigation between our customers and third parties that would require us to allocate significant resources to fulfilling our contractual obligations to provide our customers with full and complete access to records, analysis and back-up documentation of our work. Assuring our capacity to fulfill these obligations as well as actually fulfilling them could impose significant burdens on our infrastructure for data storage, maintenance and processing, and require us to incur increased costs to supplement our personnel, data storage and computing resources, which could materially and negatively impact other business operations.. 16. We depend on many different entities to supply information and an inability to successfully manage our relationships with a number of these suppliers may harm the quality and availability of our solutions and services.. We obtain the data used in our solutions and services from many sources, including commercial health insurance plans, financial institutions, managed care organizations, government entities and non-government entities. From time to time, challenges arise in managing and maintaining our relationships with data sources that are not our customers and that furnish information to us pursuant to a combination of voluntary cooperation and legal obligations under laws and regulations that are often subject to differing interpretation. For example, data suppliers could seek to limit or end our access to and use of their data if they determine that certain uses of data for our customers are not permitted by our agreements, or such suppliers may make errors in compiling, transmitting or accurately characterizing data or have technological limitations that interfere with our receipt or use of the data we rely on them to provide. If a number of our information sources become unable or unwilling to provide us with certain data under terms of use that are acceptable to us and our customers, or if laws and regulations for use and protection of this data changes in a way that disincentivizes our suppliers, or imposes unacceptable or unreasonable conditions or risks on us, we may not be able to obtain new or favorable agreements with alternative data suppliers. In addition, our ability to normalize and fully utilize the information we have received from various data sources in order to enhance and improve current solutions for our customers is an important component of our growth strategy. Although we believe that we have the legal and contractual rights necessary to normalize and use the data we have obtained from these sources for potential or contemplated products and service offerings, we cannot provide assurance that these entities will permit the use of their data for these purposes. If we lose a number of our data sources or access to certain data and are unable to identify and reach the requisite agreements with suitable alternative suppliers or fail to successfully integrate them into our solutions and services, or if there is a lack of accuracy or integrity in the data that current or future suppliers provide, we could experience service disruptions, increased costs, reduced quality of our solutions and services, or performance penalties under our customer contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may rely on subcontractors and other third party providers to provide customers with a single-source solution or service or we may serve as a subcontractor to a third party prime contractor. If these parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us or if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. In some areas of our business we may engage subcontractors, teaming partners, vendors or other third party providers to provide our customers with a single-source solution or service for a broader range of service needs. These third parties include software vendors, utility and network providers and other information technology service providers. Our ability to deliver and implement solutions and serve our customers effectively depends on these third parties meeting our service standards in both timeliness and quality, and in certain instances, on our ability to obtain customer approval for the use of these third party subcontractors. While we believe that we perform appropriate due diligence on these third parties and take adequate measures to ensure that they comply with the appropriate laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that they will comply with the terms set forth in their agreements with us. Performance deficiencies or misconduct by subcontractors, teaming partners, vendors or other third party providers may be perceived as inadequacies in our solutions or services or cause us to fail to fulfill our contractual obligations to our customers, which could materially adversely affect our customer relationships and reputation, result in termination of a customer contract, and subject us to a dispute with our customer. In addition, if our third party service providers terminate or refuse to renew their relationships with us or offer their products to us in the future on less advantageous terms, we may not be able to perform or deliver solutions or services for existing customers as expected.. Similarly, we are and may in the future be engaged as a subcontractor to a third party prime contractor. Subcontracting arrangements where we are not the prime contractor pose unique risks to us because we do not have control over the customer relationship, and our ability to generate revenue under such subcontracts is dependent on the prime contractor, its performance and relationship with the customer, and its relationship with us. We cannot be certain that the prime contractor will provide adequate and timely services to the customer, comply with the terms of its prime contract with the customer or its subcontract agreement with us, or that it will construe its contractual rights and obligations in a reasonable way, act appropriately in dealing with us or customers, and remain in compliance with the relevant laws, rules or regulations. Any failure of the prime contractor to adequately perform its obligations under the prime contract or to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations could materially adversely affect our reputation and subject us to a dispute with the prime contractor or the customer. In the event a prime contract is terminated, whether for non-performance by the prime contractor or otherwise, our subcontract will similarly terminate, and the resulting contract loss could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 17. We obtain a portion of our business through competitive bidding in response to government requests for proposals. Reprocurements and future contracts may not be awarded through this process on the same level or our contract awards may be challenged by interested parties which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In order to market our solutions and compete for contracts with existing and potential state and federal customers, we are often required to respond to government-issued RFPs. These RFP responses typically require us to assemble and submit a large volume of information within a rigid timetable, and to accurately estimate our cost structure for servicing the proposed contract, the time required to establish operations and the likely terms of any proposals submitted by our competitors. We may also be required to disclose the occurrence of any negative events suffered by our business, such as customer disputes, a government inquiry or an adverse judgment or settlement in litigation or a legal proceeding, which could impair our ability to win the contract at issue or have a material adverse effect on our reputation in the industry.. Even if we win these contracts, we may fail to secure favorable contract terms and conditions, or a government's determination to award us the contract may be challenged by an interested party. Under the state and federal laws and regulations governing procurements of goods and services, challenges and award protests may be filed even if there are no valid legal grounds on which to base the protest. The filing of such challenges could potentially delay the start or implementation of the contract if the government agency determines to withhold a contract award or suspend contract performance while the protest is being considered, or to take corrective action on its own, such as soliciting new bids or terminating the contract award or current procurement. In the event of irregularities, we perceive or learn of in the award or bidding process, we also may be forced to file protests in response to RFP awards to other bidders. Resolution of a protest, even in our favor, could force us to expend considerable funds in disputing the potential award or to incur additional expenses to maintain our ability to timely start implementation, which may cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. In addition, if we are unable to win reprocurements or protests of particular contracts, we may be precluded from entering certain customer markets for the term of the contract awarded to another party. Any failure to continue to obtain contracts in response to government RFPs, to design proposals that result in profitable contracts, to win new contracts or re-procure current contracts after they expire or to prevail in protests or challenges of contract awards could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Adverse judgments or settlements in legal proceedings could materially harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.. We are subject and may be a party to legal proceedings and claims that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, which may include those related to, for example, claims brought by our customers in connection with billing and contractual disputes, subcontracts and teaming agreements, protection of confidential information or trade secrets, claims relating to pending, terminated or completed acquisitions or dispositions, adversary proceedings arising from customer bankruptcies, employment of our workforce and immigration requirements or compliance with any of a wide array of state and federal statutes, rules and regulations that pertain to different aspects of our business. We may also be required to initiate expensive litigation or other proceedings to protect our business interests. There is a risk that we will not be successful or otherwise be able to satisfactorily resolve any pending or future litigation. In addition, litigation and other legal claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management's view of currently pending legal matters may change in the future. Those uncertainties include, but are not limited to, litigation costs and attorneys' fees, unpredictable judicial or jury decisions and the differing laws and judicial proclivities regarding damage awards among the states in which we operate. Resolution may also require that HMS accept some amount of loss or liability in order to avoid customer abrasion, negative marketplace perceptions and other disadvantageous results. Unexpected outcomes in such legal proceedings, or changes in management's evaluation or predictions of the likely outcomes of such proceedings (possibly resulting in changes in established reserves), could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 18. As previously reported, in November 2017, the Company was the subject of an adverse verdict in a breach of contract claim against the Company arising out of an acquisition in 2010. The adverse verdict resulted in a jury award of $60 million in damages to the plaintiffs. The Company intends to appeal the verdict and believes that strong grounds exist to overturn or greatly reduce the damages awarded by the jury. See the information under \"Litigation\" in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 for further discussion about this proceeding.. We may not be able to deliver our solutions and services efficiently if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees.. Our successful delivery of solutions and services and ability to maintain our productivity and profitability is dependent on our ability to identify, recruit, employ, train and retain skilled personnel. The success of recruitment and retention strategies depend on a number of factors, including the competitive demands for employees having the skills we need and the level of compensation required to hire and retain such employees. As our business expands and undergoes change, we may also find it difficult to preserve our corporate culture, which could reduce our ability to innovate and operate effectively or result in a loss of experienced personnel. In addition, customers or competitors may hire away our qualified employees. We may not be able to recruit or maintain the personnel necessary to efficiently operate and support our business in the future, and even if our recruitment and retention strategies are successful, our labor costs may increase significantly. Our inability to hire sufficient personnel on a timely basis without significantly increasing our labor costs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our future success depends, in part, on the continued service of members of our management team.. Our ability to execute on our business plans and future success requires that we attract, develop, motivate and retain experienced and innovative executive officers and senior managers who have successfully managed, designed or implemented government services programs or information technology projects, or have relevant experience in other sectors of data management or the healthcare industry. These individuals are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in our industry. The loss of services of one or more members of our management team could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, to the extent we lose an executive officer or senior manager, we may incur increased expenses in connection with the hiring, promotion or replacement of these individuals and the transition of leadership and critical knowledge.. Our outstanding indebtedness could materially adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business, and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations or capital requirements.. On December 19, 2017, HMS and certain subsidiaries entered into Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the \"Amendment\"), which amends our existing Credit Agreement. Among other things, the Amendment provides for a senior secured revolving facility in an aggregate principal amount equal to $500 million and extends the maturity date of the revolving facility to December 19, 2022 (the \"Amended Revolving Facility\"). The Amended Revolving Facility is secured, subject to certain customary carve-outs and exceptions, by a first priority lien and security interest in substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets.. 19. As of December 31, 2017, the outstanding principal balance due under our Credit Agreement was $240.0 million. Our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur may have important consequences for us, including, without limitation, that:. §we may be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness;. §our indebtedness and leverage may increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressures;. §our indebtedness may expose us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings are and will be at variable interest rates;. §our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and for general corporate and other purposes may be limited;. §our indebtedness and leverage may prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities as they arise or successfully carrying out our plans to expand our business; and. §our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry may be limited.. Under the Credit Agreement, we are also required to comply with specified financial and operating covenants, which may limit our ability to operate our business as we otherwise might operate it. The Amended Revolving Facility contains (i) certain affirmative covenants that impose certain reporting and/or performance obligations on us and our restricted subsidiaries, (ii) certain negative covenants that generally limit, subject to various exceptions, us and our restricted subsidiaries from taking certain actions, including, without limitation, incurring indebtedness, creating liens, engaging in mergers and consolidations, disposing of certain assets or property, making certain investments and acquisitions, entering into certain transactions with affiliates, swap agreements or sale-leasebacks, making certain restricted payments, including dividends and share repurchases, changing our fiscal year or the lines of business that we or our restricted subsidiaries conduct to a material extent, and prepaying certain junior indebtedness, (iii) financial covenants consisting of a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio, and (iv) customary events of default for financings of this type.. Our obligations under the Amended Revolving Facility may be declared due and payable upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default, which includes, without limitation: non-payment of principal or reimbursement obligation when due; non-payment of interest, fees and other amounts for a period of five business days after the due date; material inaccuracies of representations and warranties; failure to perform or observe covenants, conditions or agreements (subject to any applicable grace periods); cross-defaults to certain indebtedness; inability to pay debts; certain acts of bankruptcy or insolvency; certain ERISA events; failure to pay certain material judgments; and a change of control as defined in the Credit Agreement. If not cured, an event of default could result in any amounts outstanding, including any accrued interest and unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable, and would give our lenders the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which would require us to, among other things, seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets, refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, sell selected assets, and/or reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt, and any such financing or refinancing might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our outstanding credit facility depends upon our future performance and our ability to generate cash flows, and if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations or are forced to take additional measures to be able to service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may materially adversely affect our effective tax rates.. We are a United States-based company subject to various federal, state and local tax laws and regulations in multiple U.S. jurisdictions that govern numerous aspects of our business. As we expand our business, we may perform services for new customers located outside of the United States or in a U.S. Territory, which may subject us to foreign tax laws and regulations that could increase our exposure to additional tax liabilities. Our future effective tax rates could also be materially affected by changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions where our income is earned and taxed, by changes in, or our interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business, by increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes including impairments of goodwill, by changes in U.S. GAAP or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. The 2017 Tax Act was enacted on December 22, 2017 and is generally effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. The 2017 Tax Act, among other things, includes a reduction to the U.S. corporate tax rate, modifications to the limitations on certain deductions for executive compensation, new limitations on interest deductions, repeal of the section 199 Deduction, and capital investment deductions in certain circumstances, and a shift of the U.S. taxation of multinational corporations from a tax on worldwide income to a territorial system. We are currently in the process of analyzing the effects of this new legislation on our business, and although we believe that the impact of the new legislation might be beneficial to us at this time, the ultimate outcome of the new legislation on our business and financial condition is uncertain. Any unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations.. 20. In addition, we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other domestic tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result. The final determination of any of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our health insurance coverage and self-insurance reserves may not cover future claims, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We maintain various insurance policies for company employee health, workers' compensation, general liability and property damage. We are self-insured for our health plans, and have purchased a fully-insured stop loss policy to help offset our liability for both individual and aggregate claim costs. We are also responsible for losses up to a certain limit for workers' compensation, general liability and property damage insurance.. For policies under which we are responsible for losses, we record a liability that represents our estimated cost of claims incurred and unpaid as of the balance sheet date. Our estimated liability is not discounted and is based on a number of assumptions and factors, including historical trends, actuarial assumptions and economic conditions, and is closely monitored and adjusted when warranted by changing circumstances. Our prior growth could affect the accuracy of estimates based on historical experience. Should a greater amount of claims occur compared to what was estimated or medical costs increase beyond what was expected, our accrued liabilities might not be sufficient and we may be required to record additional expense. Unanticipated changes may also produce materially different amounts of expense than reported under these programs, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Although we believe that we have remediated previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, our financial statements could be materially misstated if we fail to remedy other material weaknesses that we may identify in the future, or if we are unable to develop, implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in future periods.. In connection with management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting for the December 31, 2016 reporting period, we identified material weaknesses related to the calculation of the estimated liability for appeals balance in connection with our CMS reserve and the valuation of our accounts receivable allowance. As further described under the heading \"Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting\" in Part II, Item 9A of this 2017 Form 10-K, we have implemented measures to address these material weaknesses and have successfully completed the testing necessary to conclude that the material weaknesses have been remediated.. In future periods, these remedial measures may not operate effectively, or we may fail to design or implement effective controls or to otherwise maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, and additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting may occur or be discovered. As a result, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations on a timely basis, our financial statements may contain material misstatements or our operating results or financial condition may otherwise be negatively impacted, and we may be subject to litigation and regulatory actions, any of which may cause us to incur substantial costs, adversely affect investor perceptions and potentially result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. In addition, these failures may also cause us to incur substantial additional costs in future periods relating to the implementation of remedial measures or limit our ability to obtain financing under our Credit Agreement, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 21. Risks Relating to Our Industry. Our business could be materially adversely affected by changes in the U.S. healthcare environment or in laws relating to healthcare programs and policies, particularly as they relate to the ACA and the Medicare and Medicaid programs.. The healthcare industry in which we operate is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that directly affect the practices and operations of federal, state and commercial healthcare organizations in the United States. In March 2010, the ACA was passed, and its emphasis on program integrity and cost containment, along with its expansion of Medicaid, created new opportunities to grow our business and our service offerings. However, some of the provisions of the ACA have yet to be implemented and there have been a number of judicial and legal challenges to certain aspects of the ACA. Since January 2017, the President has signed two executive orders and other directives designed to waive, defer, grant exemptions from or delay the implementation of certain requirements mandated by the ACA. Concurrently, Congress has considered legislation that would repeal or repeal and replace all or part of the ACA. In December 2017, the Tax Act was enacted and signed into law, one part of which repeals the \"individual mandate\" introduced by the ACA effective January 1, 2019. There have also been a number of proposed and adopted legislative initiatives and healthcare reform proposals from state and federal governments, including, (i) initiatives and proposals that would fundamentally change the financial structure of the Medicaid program (currently funded jointly by the states and the U.S. Federal Government) that could result in early termination or non-renewal of our contracts with certain state government customers, and (ii) initiatives and proposals at the federal level that may reduce reimbursement rates to states, establish new payment models, increase or decrease government involvement in healthcare, decrease the Medicare RAC Program, or otherwise change the operating environment for our customers. Healthcare organizations may react to such changed circumstances and financial pressures by taking actions to ramp up, curtail or defer their retention of cost containment providers like us, which could impact the demand for our solutions and services and our ability to increase or maintain sales of our existing solutions and services. While certain changes may present new opportunities to us, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to adapt our solutions and services to meet changing requirements or expand service delivery into new areas, or if the demand for our solutions and services is reduced as a result of efforts to waive, modify or otherwise change the ACA, in whole or in part, and as a result of other future legislative changes affecting Medicare, Medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs. Although we will continue to evaluate the effect that the ACA and its possible repeal and replacement may have on our business, it is difficult to predict the full impact and influence that the ACA and the varying healthcare reform measures may have on the U.S. healthcare industry or policy, and any resulting changes may take time to unfold.. Healthcare spending fluctuations, simplification of the healthcare payment process or other aspects of the healthcare financing system, budgetary pressures and/or programmatic changes diminishing the scope of program benefits, or limiting payment integrity initiatives, could reduce the need for and the price of our solutions and services, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our projections and expectations are premised, in part, upon consistent growth rates in the Medicare and Medicaid programs and in government spending on these programs, and in the current healthcare financing system and the need for our solutions and services within that existing framework. Our success as a company is based on offering solutions and services that improve the ability of our customers to identify and recover revenue that would otherwise be lost often as a result of procedural inefficiencies and complexities in the healthcare delivery and payment system. However, the need for our solutions and services, the price customers are willing to pay for them and the scope and profitability of our contracts could be negatively affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to:. §a lower than projected growth in Medicare and Medicaid programs and expenditures;. §the simplification of the healthcare benefit and payment system through legislative or regulatory changes at the federal or state level (for example, legislative changes impacting the scope of mandatory audits; limiting or reducing the amount of reviewable claims and/or the look-back period for review in areas where we conduct audits);. §changes in the level of federal government spending due to budgetary or deficit considerations, including the continuance of existing programs, as well as budgetary pressures that may drive changes at the state level;. §the transition of healthcare beneficiaries from fee-for-service plans to value-based plans;. 22. §unanticipated reductions in the scope of healthcare program benefits (such as, for example, state decisions to eliminate coverage of optional Medicaid populations or services or shifting lives into managed care plans);. §modifications in provider billing behavior and habits, often in response to the success of our solutions and services or to changes that reduce healthcare spending;. §customer improvements and enhancements to their internal healthcare claims and billing processes;. §the adoption of healthcare plans with significantly higher deductibles;. §limits placed on ongoing program integrity initiatives, including the Medicare RAC program; and. §legislative healthcare reforms and developments, including the absence of near-term compliance deadlines effected by the ACA, the possible repeal or modification of the ACA, and other legislative actions to reduce program eligibility or services, or reform Medicaid spending.. For example, during 2014 and 2015, our recovery audit services under HDIs Medicare RAC contract were limited because of significant delays in procurement activities for the new Medicare RAC contract awards, resulting from, in part, the cancellation of the original and second procurements following the denial of pre-award protests and ongoing litigation regarding certain payment terms proposed by CMS as part of the new Medicare RAC proposals. In response to the delays, CMS allowed the Medicare RAC contractors, including HDI, to perform active recovery auditing through July 2016 and certain limited administrative activities, including collections, related to findings through January 31, 2018.. In October 2016, CMS announced the new Medicare RAC contract awards, including the award of RAC Region 4 to our wholly owned subsidiary. Under the new Medicare RAC contracts, CMS implemented modified ADR limits that reduces the ADR requirement to 0.5%. The modified ADR limits, which CMS first announced in January 2016, is a 75% reduction from the 2.0% ADR limit established for the HDI Medicare RAC contract. In addition, in April 2016, CMS instituted a sliding scale policy adjusting ADR limits based on provider denial rate after three 45-day ADR cycles. In January 2018, CMS further modified this methodology, indicating that underpayments identified by the RAC would be precluded from the sliding scale policy. These changes have significant impact on the volumes of claims that Medicare RACs are permitted to review for inpatient providers and reduces their ability to identify overpayments and underpayments under the new Medicare RAC contracts. HMS is currently waiting for CMS to operationalize the sliding scale under the new Medicare RAC contract, which is expected to increase the current ADR limit to a requirement less than the 2.0% limit that was previously set under the prior contracts.. Further, in connection with our first Medicare RAC contract, CMS announced in 2014 that it would settle with hospitals willing to withdraw inpatient status claims currently pending in the RAC appeals process by offering to pay hospitals 68% for all eligible claims they had billed to Medicare. In June 2015, CMS notified HDI that based on the initial lists of finalized settlements, HDI owed CMS approximately $28.6 million due to adjustments in contingency fees under our existing Medicare RAC contract. HDI previously advised CMS that it disagrees with CMS interpretation of the contract and that CMS does not have the contractual right, among other things, to require refunding fees already paid. In addition, in September 2016, CMS announced that it would extend an opportunity for another round of settlements for hospitals that were eligible for but did not choose to participate in the 2014 settlement, with CMS offering to pay 66% for all eligible claims they had billed to Medicare. The implication of these settlements related to the claims for which HDI already has been paid remains uncertain.. Although we do not anticipate that our new Medicare RAC contract will represent a significant portion of our business going forward, our Medicare RAC contract still represents a future business opportunity for us. However, there could be a material negative impact on our future revenue to the extent that (i) any final determination of amounts owed by us to CMS under HDIs Medicare RAC contract materially exceeds our accrued reserves for such appeals, (ii) we are required to increase or decrease our contractually required reserves with respect to pending appeals due to changes in appeal performance, changes in data provided to us from other entities in the RAC process, or other related factors, (iii) we are required to repay a portion of prior fees associated with the hospital settlements, (iv) we are unable to obtain full payments for properly provided services, or (v) future fees payable to us by CMS are reduced. The occurrence of any of these events or other changes to the Medicare RAC program that materially reduce our revenue or profitability with such program may have an adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 23. A failure to comply with the laws and regulations that apply to companies in our industry regarding individual privacy and information security could subject us to legal actions, fines and penalties and negatively impact our reputation and operations.. As a service provider, we often receive, process, transmit and store sensitive data, including PHI and personally identifiable information of individuals, as well as other financial, confidential and proprietary information belonging to our customers, subsidiaries, data supplies and other third parties from which we obtain information. The use and disclosure of that information is regulated at the federal, state, international and industry levels and we are also obligated by our contractual requirements with customers. For example, we are subject to federal regulation under HIPAA, as amended by HITECH, and the Final Omnibus Privacy, Security, Breach Notification, and Enforcement Rule, as well as various state laws. HIPAA also imposes standards and requirements on our business associates (as defined under HIPAA).. Even though we take measures to comply with all applicable regulations and to ensure our business associates and subcontractors comply with these laws, regulations and rules, we have less than complete control over our business associates' and subcontractors' actions and practices. We may be exposed to data breach risk if there is unauthorized access to one of our or our subcontractors' secure facilities or from lost or stolen laptops or other portable media from current or former employee theft of data containing PHI, from computer hacking, malware, computer viruses or other malicious codes, phishing or other cyber-attacks, from misdirected mailings containing PHI, or other forms of administrative or operational error. If we or our subcontractors fail to comply with applicable laws; if unauthorized parties gain physical access to one of our facilities and steal or misuse confidential information; if we erroneously use or disclose data in a way that is inconsistent with our granted rights; or if such information is misdirected, lost or stolen during transmission or transport, we may suffer damage to our reputation, potential loss of existing customers and difficulty attracting new customers. We could also be exposed to, among other things, unfavorable publicity, governmental inquiry and oversight, allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations, costs to provide notifications to affected individuals, fines or other penalties imposed by government regulatory agencies, or litigation by affected parties and possible financial obligations for damages or indemnification obligations related to the theft or misuse of such information, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, laws, rules and regulations concerning the protection of personal information are subject to frequent change by legislation, regulatory issuances or administrative interpretation. As regulatory focus on privacy issues continues to increase and these laws and regulations continue to expand and become more complex, these potential risks to our business could intensify. Changes in laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of certain types of sensitive data, such as healthcare data or other personally identifiable information, along with increased customer demands for enhanced data security infrastructure, could greatly increase our cost of providing our solutions and services, and may subject us to additional liabilities.. We are subject to extensive government regulation, including government and customer audits and investigations relating to our compliance with the laws and regulations applicable to companies in our industry, and a negative finding or other adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Much of our business is regulated by the federal government and the states in which we operate. The laws and regulations governing our operations are generally intended to benefit and protect individual citizens, including government program beneficiaries, other health plan members and providers, and the federal and state governmental agencies administering these laws and regulations have broad latitude to enforce them. As such, we are subject, on an ongoing basis, to various governmental and customer reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with our contracts and applicable laws and regulations, as well as legal actions and enforcement proceedings. For example, because we receive payments from federal and state governmental agencies, we are subject to laws, such as the Federal Acquisition Regulations, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, federal and state employment, equal opportunity and affirmative action laws, and federal and state prompt pay statutes. We are also subject to the Federal False Claims Act and similar state statutes, which permit government law enforcement agencies to institute suits against us for violations and, in some cases, to seek double or treble damages, penalties and assessments. In addition, private citizens, acting as whistleblowers, can sue on behalf of the government under the \"qui tam\" provisions of the Federal False Claims Act and similar statutory provisions in many states.. 24. As we expand into new areas of the healthcare industry, we may develop new or enhanced solutions that may further expose us to requirements under additional statutes and legislative schemes that have previously not been relevant to our business, such as banking and credit reporting statutes. For example, in connection with our acquisition of Eliza, we became subject to the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991, state and federal audio and telephone recording laws, and other related state and federal laws and regulations as a result of the member engagement services that we perform. Increased involvement in analytic or audit work that can have an impact on the eligibility of individuals for medical coverage or specific benefits, or payments made by our customers to providers, could increase the likelihood and incidence of our being subjected to scrutiny or legal actions by parties other than our customers, based on alleged mistakes or deficiencies in our work, with significant resulting costs and strain on our resources.. These laws and regulations, along with the terms of our government contracts, regulate how we do business, what solutions and services we offer and how we interact with customers, providers, other healthcare payers and the public. If the government discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may be subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions and debarment from doing business with the government. Similarly, if our customers assert that we have failed to properly perform or comply with our contractual obligations, or if the carriers to which we send billings assert that we have failed to properly comply with applicable federal or state billing rules and regulations, we may be required to provide refunds or make payments to resolve such issues. If we are found to be in violation of any applicable law or regulation, or if we receive an adverse review, audit or investigation from a government agency or customer related to our compliance with such laws or regulations or the terms of our government contracts, any resulting negative publicity, penalties or sanctions could have an adverse effect on our reputation in the industry, impair our ability to compete for new contracts or bid in response to RFPs in one or more jurisdictions and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Federal and state governments may limit or prohibit outsourcing of certain programs or functions, refuse to grant consents or waivers necessary to permit private entities to perform such work, or impose other limitations on outsourcing or certain vendors that may obstruct cost-effective performance of our contracts.. Federal or state governments could limit or prohibit private contractors like us from operating or performing elements of certain government functions or programs. As a condition of receiving federal funding, state, and local governments may be required to operate such programs with government employees. Under current law, in order to privatize certain functions of government programs, the federal government must grant a consent and/or waiver to the petitioning state or local agency. If the federal government does not grant a necessary consent or waiver, the state or local agency will be unable to outsource that function to a commercial entity. Such a situation could eliminate a contracting opportunity or reduce the value of an existing contract.. Similarly, other state or federal limitations on outsourcing certain types of work to vendors that supplement our workforce could make it more difficult for us to fulfill our contracts in a cost-effective manner. Certain areas of our operations use or involve vendor or subcontractor personnel located outside of the United States, who may (under carefully controlled circumstances) access certain PHI in the course of assisting us with various elements of the services we provide to our customers. The federal government and a number of states have considered laws or issued rules, regulations, and orders that would limit, restrict or wholly prohibit the use of offshore labor in performance of government contracts, or impose sanctions for the use of such resources. Some of our customers have already chosen to contractually limit or restrict our ability to use offshore resources. Intensified restrictions of this type or associated penalties could raise our costs of doing business, expose us to unexpected fines or penalties, increase the prices we must charge to customers to realize a profit and eliminate or significantly reduce the value of existing contracts or potential contract opportunities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 25. We may be precluded from bidding on or performing certain work due to work we currently perform, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Various laws, regulations and administrative policies prohibit companies from performing work for government agencies in capacities that might be viewed to create an actual or perceived conflict of interest. In particular, CMS has stringent conflict of interest rules, which can limit our bidding for specific work for CMS, or for other contracts that might conflict, or be perceived by CMS to conflict, with contractual work for CMS. State governments and managed care organizations also have conflict of interest restrictions that could limit our ability to bid for certain work and impede our overall sales strategy. As we continue to expand and diversify our business operations, the likelihood that customers or potential customers will perceive conflicts of interest between our various subsidiaries, solutions, services, activities and customer relationships may increase. Such conflicts, whether real or perceived, could result in a loss of contracts or additional internal structural barriers that delay operational efficiency. We may also need to divest certain existing businesses or reorganize our current management and personnel structure, as well as our corporate organization and entity structure, in order to qualify for new contract awards or to appropriately mitigate conflicts and otherwise accommodate the needs as a company that is expanding in complexity. Our failure to devote sufficient care, attention and resources to managing these adjustments may result in technical or administrative errors that could expose us to potential liability or adverse regulatory action. In addition, conflict of interest rules and standards change frequently, and are subject to varying interpretations and varying degrees and consistency of enforcement. We may not be successful in navigating these restrictions. If we are prevented from expanding our business or are unable to effectively implement our strategic initiatives due to real or perceived conflicts of interest, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, and fluctuations in the price of our common stock may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and materially adversely affect our shareholders.. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely and may continue to do so. During the 52-week period ended December 31, 2017, our common stock intra-day traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market as high as $20.90 per share and as low as $11.01 per share. Our stock price is subject to fluctuation as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control, such as the risk factors described above and those which are related to:. §quarterly or annual earnings results or those of other companies in our industry;. §changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations by securities analysts or in the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to our company;. §news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the healthcare industry, including perceptions in the marketplace regarding us and our competitors;. §the financial projections we publicly provide and any changes in or failure to meet those projections;. §future sales of shares of common stock in the public market by our executive officers or directors;. §any other changes in the amount of our outstanding shares, including as a result of share repurchases;. §actual or proposed changes in federal or state laws affecting the healthcare industry;. §changes in accounting principles;. §the public's response to our press releases, or other public announcements, including our filings with the SEC;. §securities class actions, shareholder lawsuits or other litigation; and. §market conditions in the industry and the economy as a whole.. In addition, the stock market often experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. These broad market fluctuations may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock regardless of our operating performance. When the market price of a company's stock drops significantly, shareholders may institute securities class action litigation against that company. Any litigation against us could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the time and attention of our management and other resources or otherwise harm our business.. 26. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, you will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value.. We have not paid or declared cash dividends on any of our capital stock to date and currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and continued growth of our business and repurchase shares opportunistically from time to time. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The success of your investment in our common stock will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased your shares.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage unsolicited takeover attempts, which could depress the market price of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 5,000,000 shares of \"blank check\" preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, our Board of Directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of holders of our common stock. In the event of issuance, preferred stock could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a change in control. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of preferred stock, it is possible that we will do so in the future. In addition, our bylaws currently provide for a classified Board of Directors, require advance notice of shareholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our shareholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors and provide for Delaware as an exclusive forum for certain disputes with our shareholders, all of which could also have the effect of discouraging a change of control."
