[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in us involves a degree of risk, including the risks described below. Our operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by a wide variety of risk factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could have adverse effects on profitability during any particular period. You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. If any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. The headings provided in this Item 1A. are for convenience and reference purposes only and shall not affect or limit the extent or interpretation of the risk factors.. The availability and cost of renewable identification numbers and other required credits could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Pursuant to the 2007 Energy Independence and Security Act, the EPA promulgated the RFS regulations reflecting the increased volume of renewable fuels mandated to be blended into the nation's fuel supply. The regulations, in part, require refiners to add annually increasing amounts of \"renewable fuels\" to their petroleum products or purchase credits, known as RINs, in lieu of such blending. We currently purchase RINs for some fuel categories on the open market in order to comply with the quantity of renewable fuels we are required to blend under the RFS regulations. Recently, due in part to the nation's fuel supply approaching the \"blend wall\" (the 10% ethanol limit prescribed by most automobile warranties), the price of RINs has been extremely volatile with the price dramatically increasing in recognition of the decrease in RINs availability. While we cannot predict the future prices of RINs, the costs to obtain the necessary number of RINs could be material. If we are unable to pass the costs of compliance with the RFS regulations on to our customers, if sufficient RINs are unavailable for purchase, if we have to pay a significantly higher price for RINs or if we are otherwise unable to meet the RFS mandates, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. In addition, the RFS regulations are highly complex and evolving, requiring us to periodically update our compliance systems. The RFS regulations require the EPA to determine and publish the applicable annual volume and percentage standards for each compliance year by November 30 for the forthcoming year, and such blending percentages could be higher or lower than amounts estimated and accrued for in our consolidated financial statements. The future cost of RINs is difficult to estimate until such time as the EPA finalizes the applicable standards for the forthcoming compliance year. Moreover, in addition to increased price volatility in the RIN market, there have been multiple instances of RINs fraud occurring in the marketplace over the past several years. The EPA has initiated several enforcement actions against refiners who purchase fraudulent RINs, resulting in substantial costs to the refiner. We cannot predict with certainty our exposure to increased RINs costs in the future, nor can we predict the extent by which costs associated with RFS regulations will impact our future results of operations.. The prices of crude oil and refined products materially affect our profitability, and are dependent upon many factors that are beyond our control, including general market demand and economic conditions, seasonal and weather-related factors, regional and grade differentials and governmental regulations and policies.. Among these factors is the demand for crude oil and refined products, which is largely driven by the conditions of local and worldwide economies as well as by weather patterns and the taxation of these products relative to other energy sources. Governmental regulations and policies, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy and the environment, also have a significant impact on our activities. Operating results can be affected by these industry factors, product and crude pipeline capacities, crude oil differentials (including regional and grade differentials), changes in transportation costs, accidents or interruptions in transportation, competition in the particular geographic areas that we serve, and factors that are specific to us, such as the success of particular marketing programs and the efficiency of our refinery operations. The demand for crude oil and refined products can also be reduced due to a local or national recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by businesses and consumers on gasoline and diesel fuel, higher gasoline prices due to higher crude oil prices, a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or alternative fuel vehicles (such as ethanol or wider adoption of gas/electric hybrid vehicles), or an increase in vehicle fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation mandating or encouraging higher fuel economy or the use of alternative fuel.. 22. Table of Content. We do not produce crude oil and must purchase all our crude oil, the price of which fluctuates based upon worldwide and local market conditions. Our profitability depends largely on the spread between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil prices. This margin is continually changing and may fluctuate significantly from time to time. Crude oil and refined products are commodities whose price levels are determined by market forces beyond our control. For example, the reversal of certain existing pipelines or the construction of certain new pipelines transporting additional crude oil or refined products to markets that serve competing refineries could affect the market dynamic that has allowed us to take advantage of favorable pricing. Also, in December 2015, the U.S. Congress lifted the ban on the ability of producers to export domestic crude oil. This could potentially impact crack spreads and price differentials between domestic and foreign crude oils. A deterioration of crack spreads or price differentials between domestic and foreign crude oils could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Additionally, due to the seasonality of refined products markets and refinery maintenance schedules, results of operations for any particular quarter of a fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year and can vary year to year in the event of unseasonably cool weather in the summer months and / or unseasonably warm weather in the winter months in the markets in which we sell our petroleum products. In general, prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. Although an increase or decrease in the price for crude oil may result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there may be a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. The effect of changes in crude oil prices on operating results, therefore, depends in part on how quickly refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. A substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, or a substantial or prolonged decrease in demand for refined products could have a significant negative effect on our earnings and cash flow. Also, crude oil supply contracts are generally short-term contracts with market-responsive pricing provisions. We purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. Price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the manufactured refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also, our crude oil and refined products inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market under the last-in, first-out (\"LIFO\") inventory valuation methodology. If the market value of our inventory were to decline to an amount less than our LIFO cost, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of products sold even when there is no underlying economic impact at that point in time. Continued volatility in crude oil and refined products prices could result in lower of cost or market inventory charges in the future, or in reversals reducing cost of products sold in subsequent periods should prices recover. For example, we recorded a non-cash decrease to cost of products sold in the amount of $108.7 million and $291.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.. A material decrease in the supply of crude oil or other raw materials available to our refineries could significantly reduce our production levels and negatively affect our operations.. To maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for crude oil supplies from third parties. A material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries, as a result of depressed commodity prices, lack of drilling activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. In addition, any prolonged disruption of a significant pipeline that is used in supplying crude oil to our refineries or the potential operation of a new, converted or expanded crude oil pipeline that transports crude oil to other markets could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. Such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and therefore a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. In addition, the future growth of our operations will depend in part upon whether we can contract for additional supplies of crude oil at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. If we are unable to secure additional crude oil supplies of sufficient quality or crude pipeline expansion to our refineries, we will be unable to take full advantage of current and future expansion of our refineries' production capacities.. For certain raw materials and utilities used by our refineries, there are a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, the supplies are specific to the particular geographic region in which a facility is located. It is also common in the refining industry for a facility to have a sole, dedicated source for its utilities, such as steam, electricity, water and gas. Having a sole or limited number of suppliers may limit our negotiating power, particularly in the case of rising raw material costs. Any new supply agreements we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our current supply agreements.. Additionally, there is growing concern over the reliability of water sources. The decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of population growth, drought or regulation could negatively impact our operations.. If our raw material, utility or water supplies were disrupted, our businesses may incur increased costs to procure alternative supplies or incur excessive downtime, which would have a direct negative impact on our operations.. 23. Table of Content. We may not be able to successfully execute our business strategies to grow our business. Further, if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner, if we are unsuccessful in integrating the operations of assets we acquire, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. One of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new refinery processing units (or the purchase and refurbishment of used units from another refinery) and the expansion of existing ones. Projects are generally initiated to increase the yields of higher-value products, increase the amount of lower cost crude oils that can be processed, increase refinery production capacity, meet new governmental requirements, or maintain the operations of our existing assets. Additionally, our growth strategy includes projects that permit access to new and/or more profitable markets. The construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our control, including:. • third party challenges to, denials, or delays with respect to the issuance of requisite regulatory approvals and/or obtaining or renewing permits, licenses, registrations and other authorizations;. • societal and political pressures and other forms of opposition;. • compliance with or liability under environmental regulations;. • unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor;. • disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials;. • severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires, spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers;. • shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages;. • market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and/or. • nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors, or sub-contractors involved with a project.. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we make. In addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we build a new refinery processing unit, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand for refined products in a region in which such growth does not materialize. As a result, new capital investments may not achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. Our forecasted internal rates of return are also based upon our projections of future market fundamentals which are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and customer demand.. An additional component of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire complementary assets or businesses for our refining operations in order to increase earnings and cash flow. Our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify attractive acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth, and other factors beyond our control. Risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to:. • diversion of management time and attention from our existing business;. • challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of operations and inefficiencies that may result therefrom;. • difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of an acquired business with those of our existing operations;. • liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities not covered by indemnification or insurance;. • greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results;. • difficulties or delays in achieving anticipated operational improvements or benefits;. • incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets; and. • issuance of additional equity, which could result in further dilution of the ownership interest of existing stockholders.. Any acquisitions that we do consummate may have adverse effects on our business and operating results.. 24. Table of Content. Currency fluctuations or devaluations may impact our operating results.. Fluctuations or devaluations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar can impact our revenue and our costs of doing business. Most of our products and services are sold through contracts denominated in U.S. dollars; however, some of our revenue, local expenses and manufacturing costs are incurred in local currencies and, therefore, changes in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies can increase or decrease our revenue and expenses reported in U.S. dollars and may impact our results of operations. Any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do business against the U.S. dollar could affect our competitiveness and control of our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the Canadian dollar, the euro and the Chinese renminbi. We recognize foreign currency transaction gains and losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. As a result, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction and translation gains and losses, which could be material. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. Our business is subject to the risks of international operations.. We derive a portion of our revenue and earnings from international operations. Compliance with applicable U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, such as import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, environmental laws, labor laws and anti-competition regulations, increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. Although we have implemented policies and procedures to comply with these laws and regulations, a violation by any of our employees, contractors or agents could nevertheless occur. In some cases, compliance with the laws and regulations of one country could violate the laws and regulations of another country. Violations of these laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our company's brand, international growth efforts and business.. We may incur significant costs to comply with new or changing environmental, energy, health and safety laws and regulations, and face potential exposure for environmental matters.. Our refinery and pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and distribution of petroleum and hazardous substances by pipeline, truck, rail and barge, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. In addition, as a result of our recent acquisition of PCLI, we have manufacturing and distribution operations in Canada that are subject to Canadian national and provincial environmental laws and regulations and similar laws in other foreign countries. Permits or other authorizations are required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations, and these permits and authorizations are subject to revocation, modification and renewal or may require operational changes, which may involve significant costs. Furthermore, a violation of permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and/or refinery shutdowns. In addition, major modifications of our operations due to changes in the law could require changes to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. For example, in October 2015, the EPA lowered the NAAQS for ozone from 75 to 70 parts per billion for both the 8-hour primary and secondary standards. The EPA published a final rule in November 2017 that issued area designations with respect to ground level ozone for approximately 85% of the U.S. counties as either \"attainment/unclassifiable\" or \"unclassifiable.\" In December 2017, the EPA responded to states' preliminary non-attainment designations, and expects to issue final non-attainment designations during the first half of 2018. State implementation of the revised NAAQS could result in stricter permitting requirements, delay or prohibit our ability to obtain such permits, and result in increased expenditures for pollution control equipment, the costs of which could be significant. Also, in February 2016, a new EPA rule became effective that amends three refinery standards already in effect, imposing additional or, in some cases, new emission control requirements on subject refineries. The final rule requires, among other things, benzene monitoring at the refinery fence line and submittal of fence line monitoring data to the EPA on a quarterly basis; upgraded storage tank controls requirements, including new applicability thresholds; enhanced performance requirements for flares, continuous monitoring of flares and pressure release devices and analysis and remedy of flare release events; and compliance with emissions standards for delayed coking units. Refineries have up to three years from the effective date of the final rule to come into compliance with certain requirements of the rule, such as the performance requirements for flares, while other aspects of the rule require compliance to be achieved at a sooner date. For example, the rule's fence line monitoring requirements became effective January 31, 2018. In July 2016, the EPA issued a finale rule providing refiners an additional 18 months to comply with a small subset of the rules related to air emissions resulting from startup, shutdown and maintenance events. In December 2016, the EPA granted petitions for reconsideration from industry and environmental organizations on aspects of the rule related to work practice standards. 25. Table of Content. for certain process units and equipment, as well as fence line monitoring requirements. To date, EPA has not published revised rules. These new rules, as well as subsequent rulemaking under the CAA or similar laws, or new agency interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may necessitate additional expenditures in future years and result in increased costs on our operations. Compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of our operations and capital requirements.. As is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. The matters include, but are not limited to, soil, groundwater and waterway contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed.. We are and have been the subject of various local, state, provincial, federal and private proceedings relating to environmental regulations, conditions and inquiries. Current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our facilities. To the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued.. Our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. We maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations but cannot guarantee that these efforts will always be successful. Compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. Failure to appropriately manage occupational health and safety risks associated with our business could also adversely impact our employees, communities, stakeholders, reputation and results of operations.. The costs of environmental and safety regulations are already significant and compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing regulations by government agencies could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess.. From time to time, new federal energy policy legislation is enacted by the U.S. Congress or the Federal or Provincial Governments of Canada. For example, in December 2007, the U.S. Congress passed the Energy Independence and Security Act, which, among other provisions, mandates annually increasing levels for the use of renewable fuels such as ethanol, commencing in 2008 and escalating for 15 years, as well as increasing energy efficiency goals, including higher fuel economy standards for motor vehicles, among other steps. In Canada, fuel content legislation also exists at the federal and provincial level. These statutory mandates may have the impact over time of offsetting projected increases in the demand for refined petroleum products in certain markets, particularly gasoline. In the near term, the new renewable fuel standard presents ethanol production and logistics challenges for both the ethanol and refining industries and may require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased ethanol use. Other legislative changes may similarly alter the expected demand and supply projections for refined petroleum products in ways that cannot be predicted.. For additional information on regulations and related liabilities or potential liabilities affecting our business, see \"Regulation\" under Items 1 and 2, \"Business and Properties,\" and Item 3, \"Legal Proceedings.\". The adoption of climate change legislation or regulations could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the refined products we produce.. The EPA has determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gas emissions, or \"GHGs,\" present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal CAA. For example, the EPA adopted rules that require certain large stationary sources to obtain permits to authorize emissions of GHGs. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States, including petroleum refineries, on an annual basis. Both the EPA and Environment and Climate Change Canada have adopted regulations that limit GHG emissions from automobiles and light-duty trucks, which may result in a reduction in demand for the refined products that we produce.. 26. Table of Content. Although the U.S. Congress has previously considered legislation to reduce GHG emissions, federal legislative action appears unlikely at this time. Meanwhile, many states have pursued or are considering their own initiatives designed to reduce GHG emissions, such as cap and trade programs, carbon taxes, low carbon fuel standards, and vehicle efficiency standards. Similar measures are being pursued in Canada at the federal and provincial level, and the provinces of Quebec, Ontario, and Alberta have all implemented either cap and trade programs or levied carbon taxes.. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the refined products that we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured.. Our operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, maritime disasters (including those involving marine vessels/terminals), fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, cyber-attacks, power failures, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. These events could result in an injury, loss of life, property damage or destruction, as well as a curtailment or an interruption in our operations and may affect our ability to meet marketing commitments.. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates and exclusions from coverage may limit our ability to recover the amount of the full loss in all situations. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. We are  not fully insured against all risks incident to our business and therefore, we self-insure certain risks. If any refinery were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the refinery could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance) because of lost production and repair costs.. The energy industry is highly capital intensive, and the entire or partial loss of individual facilities can result in significant costs to both industry companies, such as us, and their insurance carriers. In recent years, several large energy industry claims have resulted in significant increases in the level of premium costs and deductible periods for participants in the energy industry. As a result of large energy industry claims, insurance companies that have historically participated in underwriting energy-related facilities may discontinue that practice or demand significantly higher premiums or deductible periods to cover these facilities. If significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, or if other adverse conditions over which we have no control prevail in the insurance market, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at reasonable cost. In addition, we cannot assure you that our insurers will renew our insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. Further, our underwriters could have credit issues that affect their ability to pay claims. If a significant accident or event occurs that is self-insured or not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. An impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill could reduce our earnings or negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. An impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill could reduce our earnings or negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We continually monitor our business, the business environment and the performance of our operations to determine if an event has occurred that indicates that a long-lived asset or goodwill may be impaired. If a triggering event occurs, which is a determination that involves judgment, we may be required to utilize cash flow projections to assess our ability to recover the carrying value based on the ability to generate future cash flows. We may also conduct impairment testing based on both the guideline public company and guideline transaction methods. Our long-lived assets and goodwill impairment analyses are sensitive to changes in key assumptions used in our analysis, estimates of future crack spreads, forecasted production levels, operating costs and capital expenditures. If the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible a material impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any additional impairments of long-lived assets or goodwill in the future.. 27. Table of Content. As market prices for refined products and market prices for crude oil continue to fluctuate, we will need to continue to evaluate the carrying value of our refinery reporting units. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recorded goodwill and long-lived asset impairment charges of $309.3 million and $344.8 million, respectively, on the carrying value of our Cheyenne Refinery. A reasonable expectation exists that future deterioration in gross margins could result in an impairment of goodwill and the long-lived assets of the El Dorado reporting unit at some point in the future. Any additional impairment charges that we may take in the future could be material to our results of operations and financial condition.. Competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability.. We compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. Because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all areas of the refining industry.. We are not engaged in petroleum exploration and production activities and do not produce any of the crude oil feedstocks used at our refineries. We do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. Certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and have retail outlets. Competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets, with brand-name recognition, are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages.. In recent years there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between entities competing in our geographic market. These transactions could increase the future competitive pressures on us.. The markets in which we compete may be impacted by competitors' plans for expansion projects and refinery improvements that could increase the production of refined products in our areas of operation and significantly affect our profitability.. Also, the potential operation of new or expanded refined product transportation pipelines, or the conversion of existing pipelines into refined product transportation pipelines, could impact the supply of refined products to our existing markets and negatively affect our profitability.. In addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. The more successful these alternatives become as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances, consumer demand, improved pricing or otherwise, the greater the impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. There are presently significant governmental and consumer pressures to increase the use of alternative fuels in the United States.. A disruption to or proration of the refined product distribution systems we utilize could negatively impact our profitability.. We utilize various common carrier or other third party pipeline systems to deliver our products to market. The key systems utilized by the Cheyenne, El Dorado, Navajo, Woods Cross, and Tulsa Refineries are Rocky Mountain, NuStar Energy, SFPP and Plains, Chevron, and Magellan, respectively. All five refineries also utilize systems owned by HEP. If these key pipelines or their associated tanks and terminals become inoperative or decrease the capacity available to us, we may not be able to sell our product, or we may be required to hold our product in inventory or supply products to our customers through an alternative pipeline or by rail or additional tanker trucks from the refinery, all of which could increase our costs and result in a decline in profitability.. We may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security.. Information technology system failures, network disruptions (whether intentional by a third party or due to natural disaster), breaches of network or data security, or disruption or failure of the network system used to monitor and control pipeline operations could disrupt our operations by impeding our processing of transactions, our ability to protect customer or company information and our financial reporting. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, could be damaged or interrupted by power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, tornadoes and hurricanes, and/or errors by our employees. There can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 28. Table of Content. We may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of volatility and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs.. The domestic and global financial markets and economic conditions are disrupted and volatile from time to time due to a variety of factors, including low consumer confidence, high unemployment, geoeconomic and geopolitical issues, weak economic conditions and uncertainty in the financial services sector. In addition, the fixed-income markets have experienced periods of extreme volatility, which negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. Recently, the equity and debt markets for many energy industry companies have been adversely affected by low oil prices. As a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially at times while the availability of funds from these markets diminished significantly. In particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets may increase as many lenders and institutional investors increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduce, or in some cases cease to provide, funding to borrowers. In addition, lending counterparties under any existing revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations, or we may experience a decrease in our capacity to issue debt or obtain commercial credit or a deterioration in our credit profile, including a rating agency lowering or withdrawing of our credit ratings if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be required to sell assets. Moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions or construction projects, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, comply with regulatory requirements, or meet our short-term or long-term working capital requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements in a timely manner or meet our short-term or long-term working capital requirements could subject us to regulatory action.. We depend upon HEP for a substantial portion of the crude supply and distribution network that serve our refineries, and we own a significant equity interest in HEP.. At December 31, 2017, we owned a 59% limited partner interest and a non-economic general partner interest in HEP. HEP operates a system of crude oil and petroleum product pipelines; distribution terminals and refinery tankage in Arizona, Idaho, Kansas, Nevada, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas, Utah, Washington and Wyoming and refinery units in Kansas and Utah. HEP generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting petroleum products and crude oil through its pipelines, leasing certain pipeline capacity to Delek, charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals. HEP serves the Cheyenne, El Dorado, Navajo, Woods Cross and Tulsa Refineries under several long-term pipeline and terminal, tankage and throughput agreements expiring in 2020 through 2036, serves the El Dorado Refinery under long-term tolling agreements expiring in 2030 and serves the Woods Cross Refinery under long-term tolling agreements expiring in 2031. Furthermore, our financial statements include the consolidated results of HEP. HEP is subject to its own operating and regulatory risks, including, but not limited to:. • its reliance on its significant customers, including us;. • competition from other pipelines;. • environmental regulations affecting pipeline operations;. • operational hazards and risks;. • pipeline tariff regulations affecting the rates HEP can charge;. • limitations on additional borrowings and other restrictions due to HEP's debt covenants; and. • other financial, operational and legal risks.. The occurrence of any of these risks could directly or indirectly affect HEP's as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as HEP is a consolidated VIE. Additionally, these risks could affect HEP's ability to continue operations which could affect their ability to serve our supply and distribution network needs.. For additional information about HEP, see \"Holly Energy Partners, L.P.\" under Items 1 and 2, \"Business and Properties.\" For risks related to HEP's business, see Item 1A of HEP's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.. We are exposed to the credit risks, and certain other risks, of our key customers and vendors.. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from contracts with key customers.. 29. Table of Content. If any of our key customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. In addition, nonperformance by vendors who have committed to provide us with products or services could result in higher costs or interfere with our ability to successfully conduct our business.. Any substantial increase in the nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers or vendors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. Terrorist attacks (including cyber-attacks), and the threat of terrorist attacks or domestic vandalism, have resulted in increased costs to our business. Continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations.. The long-term impacts of terrorist attacks and the threat of future terrorist attacks (including cyber-attacks) on the energy transportation industry in general, and on us in particular, are unknown. Increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks or vandalism have resulted in increased costs to our business. Uncertainty surrounding continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror, may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. Any one of, or a combination of, these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks could make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital including our ability to repay or refinance debt.. Increases in required fuel economy and regulation of CO2 emissions from motor vehicles may reduce demand for transportation fuels.. In 2010, the EPA and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (\"NHTSA\") finalized new standards, raising the required Corporate Average Fuel Economy (\"CAFE\") of the nation's passenger fleet by 40% to approximately 35 miles per gallon (\"m.p.g.\") by 2016 and imposing the first-ever federal GHG emissions standards on cars and light trucks. In September 2011, the EPA and the Department of Transportation finalized first-time standards for fuel economy of medium and heavy duty trucks. On August 28, 2012, the EPA and NHTSA adopted standards through model year 2025 in two phases. The first phase establishes final standards for 2017-2021 model year vehicles that are projected to require 40.3 - 41.0 m.p.g. in model year 2021 on an average industry fleet-wide basis. The second phase of the CAFE program represents non-final \"augural\" standards for 2022-2025 model year vehicles that are projected to require 48.7 - 49.7 m.p.g. in model year 2025, on an average industry fleet-wide basis. In 2017, the EPA and NHTSA announced that the agencies were reconsidering the second phase CAFE standards, which could result in maintaining the first phase standards for the 2022-2025 model years. A final decision is expected during the first half of 2018. Any increases in fuel economy standards, along with mandated increases in use of renewable fuels discussed above, could result in decreasing demand for petroleum fuels. Decreasing demand for petroleum fuels could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operation.. To successfully operate our petroleum refining facilities, we are required to expend significant amounts for capital outlays and operating expenditures.. The refining business is characterized by high fixed costs resulting from the significant capital outlays associated with refineries, terminals, pipelines and related facilities. We are dependent on the production and sale of quantities of refined products at refined product margins sufficient to cover operating costs, including any increases in costs resulting from future inflationary pressures or market conditions and increases in costs of fuel and power necessary in operating our facilities. Furthermore, future major capital investment, various environmental compliance related projects, regulatory requirements or competitive pressures could result in additional capital expenditures, which may not produce a return on investment. Such capital expenditures may require significant financial resources that may be contingent on our access to capital markets and commercial bank loans. Additionally, other matters, such as regulatory requirements or legal actions, may restrict our access to funds for capital expenditures.. 30. Table of Content. Our refineries consist of many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. One or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnaround for such units. Scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues during the period of time that the units are not operating. We have taken significant measures to expand and upgrade units in our refineries by installing new equipment and redesigning older equipment to improve refinery capacity. The installation and redesign of key equipment at our refineries involves significant uncertainties, including the following: our upgraded equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels; operating costs of the upgraded equipment may be higher than expected; the yield and product quality of new equipment may differ from design and/or specifications and redesign, modification or replacement of the equipment may be required to correct equipment that does not perform as expected, which could require facility shutdowns until the equipment has been redesigned or modified. Any of these risks associated with new equipment, redesigned older equipment, or repaired equipment could lead to lower revenues or higher costs or otherwise have a negative impact on our future financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we expect to execute turnarounds at our refineries, which involve numerous risks and uncertainties. These risks include delays and incurrence of additional and unforeseen costs. The turnarounds allow us to perform maintenance, upgrades, overhaul and repair of process equipment and materials, during which time all or a portion of the refinery will be under scheduled downtime.. We may be unable to pay future dividends.. We will only be able to pay dividends from our available cash on hand, cash from operations or borrowings under our credit agreement. The declaration of future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, and restrictions in our debt agreements and legal requirements. We cannot assure you that any dividends will be paid or the frequency or amounts of such payments.. Product liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. A significant portion of our operating responsibility on refined product pipelines is to insure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our loading racks. If our quality control measures were to fail, we may have contaminated or off-specification commingled pipelines and storage tanks or off-specification product could be sent to public gasoline stations. These types of incidents could result in product liability claims from our customers.. Product liability is a significant commercial risk. Substantial damage awards have been made in certain jurisdictions against manufacturers and resellers based upon claims for injuries caused by the use of or exposure to various products. There can be no assurance that product liability claims against us would not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations or our ability to maintain existing customers or retain new customers.. Our hedging transactions may limit our gains and expose us to other risks.. We periodically enter into derivative transactions as it relates to inventory levels and/or future production to manage the risks from changes in the prices of crude oil, refined products and other feedstocks. These transactions limit our potential gains if commodity prices move above or below the certain price levels established by our hedging instruments. We hedge price risk on inventories above our target levels to minimize the impact these price fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flows. Consequently, our hedging results may fluctuate significantly from one reporting period to the next depending on commodity price fluctuations and our relative physical inventory positions. These transactions may also expose us to risks of financial losses; for example, if our production is less than we anticipated at the time we entered into a hedge agreement or if a counterparty to our hedge agreements fails to perform its obligations under the agreements.. Changes in our credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, may affect our relationship with our suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and limit our ability to purchase sufficient quantities of crude oil to operate our refineries at desired capacity.. An unfavorable credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms of their invoices with us or require credit enhancement. Due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our suppliers of more burdensome payment terms or credit enhancement requirements on us may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. This in turn could cause us to be unable to operate our refineries at desired capacity. A failure to operate our refineries at desired capacity could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow.. 31. Table of Content. Our credit facility contains certain covenants and restrictions that may constrain our business and financing activities.. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. For example, our revolving credit facility imposes usual and customary requirements for this type of credit facility, including: (i) limitations on liens and indebtedness; (ii) a prohibition on changes in control and (iii) restrictions on engaging in mergers and consolidations. If we fail to satisfy the covenants set forth in the credit facility or another event of default occurs under the credit facility, the maturity of the loan could be accelerated or we could be prohibited from borrowing for our future working capital needs and issuing letters of credit. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these immediate payments. If we desire to undertake a transaction that is prohibited by the covenants in our credit facility, we will need to obtain consent under our credit facility. Such refinancing may not be possible or may not be available on commercially acceptable terms.. Our business may suffer due to a departure of any of our key senior executives or other key employees. Furthermore, a shortage of skilled labor or disruptions in our labor force may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity.. Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and key technical personnel. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance, non-compete agreements, or employment agreements with respect to any member of our senior management team. The loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. We face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. To the extent that the services of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel would be unavailable to us for any reason, we may be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. We may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all.. Furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. A shortage of trained workers due to retirements or otherwise could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our operations.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 33% of our employees were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements with various expiration dates. We may not be able to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire on satisfactory terms or at all. A failure to do so may increase our costs. In addition, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of our facilities in the future, and any work stoppage could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and the value of a stockholder's investment could be impacted.. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • general economic, industry and stock market conditions;. • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts;. • future sales of our common stock;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions;. • sales of common stock by us, our senior officers or our affiliates; and/or. • the other factors described in these Risk Factors.. In recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price."
