[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in us involves a degree of risk, including the risks described below. Our operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by a wide variety of risk factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could have adverse effects on profitability during any particular period.  You should consider the following risk factors carefully together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us.  Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations.  If any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or treatment of unitholders could be materially and adversely affected.. The headings provided in this Item 1A. are for convenience and reference purposes only and shall not affect or limit the extent or interpretation of the risk factors.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, our ability to pay quarterly distributions to our common unitholders at current levels or to increase our quarterly distributions in the future could be impaired materially.. Our ability to pay quarterly distributions depends primarily on cash flow (including cash flow from operations, financial reserves and credit facilities) and not solely on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may pay cash distributions during periods of losses and may be unable to pay cash distributions during periods of income. Our ability to generate sufficient cash from operations is largely dependent on our ability to manage our business successfully which may also be affected by economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. Because the cash we generate from operations will fluctuate from quarter to quarter, quarterly distributions may also fluctuate from quarter to quarter.. We depend on HFC and particularly its Navajo and Woods Cross refineries for a substantial majority of our revenues; if those revenues were significantly reduced or if HFC's financial condition materially deteriorated, there would be a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. -. 19. -. For the year ended December 31, 2017, HFC accounted for 74% of the revenues of our petroleum product and crude pipelines, 88% of the revenues of our terminals, tankage, and truck loading racks, and 100% of the revenue from our refinery processing units. We expect to continue to derive a majority of our revenues from HFC for the foreseeable future. If HFC satisfies only its minimum obligations under the long-term pipeline and terminal, tankage and throughput agreements that it has with us or is unable to meet its minimum annual payment commitment for any reason, including due to prolonged downtime or a shutdown at HFC's refineries, our revenues and cash flow would decline.. Any significant reduction in production at the Navajo refinery could reduce throughput in our pipelines and terminals, resulting in materially lower levels of revenues and cash flow for the duration of the shutdown.  For the year ended December 31, 2017, production from the Navajo refinery accounted for 81% of the throughput volumes transported by our refined product and crude pipelines.  The Navajo refinery also received 97% of the throughput volumes shipped on our New Mexico intermediate pipelines. Operations at any of HFC's refineries could be partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as the result of:. • competition from other refineries and pipelines that may be able to supply the refinery's end-user markets on a more cost-effective basis;. • operational problems such as catastrophic events at the refinery, labor difficulties, environmental proceedings or other litigation that cause a stoppage of all or a portion of the operations at the refinery;. • planned maintenance or capital projects;. • increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's gasoline and diesel sulfur control requirements that limit the concentration of sulfur in motor gasoline and diesel fuel for both on-road and non-road usage as well as various state and federal emission requirements that may affect the refinery itself and potential future climate change regulations;. • an inability to obtain crude oil for the refinery at competitive prices; or. • a general reduction in demand for refined products in the area due to:. <U+25E6> a local or national recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by businesses and consumers on gasoline and diesel fuel;. <U+25E6> higher gasoline prices due to higher crude oil costs, higher taxes or stricter environmental laws or regulations; or. <U+25E6> a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient or alternative fuel vehicles or an increase in fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation either mandating or encouraging higher fuel economy or the use of alternative fuel or otherwise.. The effect on us of any shutdown would depend on the length of the shutdown and the extent of the refinery operations affected by the shutdown. We have no control over the factors that may lead to a shutdown or the measures HFC may take in response to a shutdown. HFC makes all decisions at each of its refineries concerning levels of production, regulatory compliance, refinery turnarounds (planned shutdowns of individual process units within the refinery to perform major maintenance activities), labor relations, environmental remediation, emission control and capital expenditures and is responsible for all related costs. HFC is under no contractual obligation to us to maintain operations at its refineries.. Furthermore, HFC's obligations under the long-term pipeline and terminal, tankage, tolling and throughput agreements with us would be temporarily suspended during the occurrence of a force majeure event that renders performance impossible with respect to an asset for at least 30 days. If such an event were to continue for a year, we or HFC could terminate the agreements. The occurrence of any of these events could reduce our revenues and cash flows.. We depend on Delek and particularly its Big Spring refinery for a  portion of our revenues; if those revenues were significantly reduced, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, Delek accounted for 8% of the combined revenues of our petroleum product and crude pipelines and of our terminals and truck loading racks, including revenues we received from Delek under a capacity lease agreement.  If Delek satisfies only its minimum obligations under the long-term pipeline and terminal, tankage and throughput agreements that it has with us or is unable to meet its minimum annual payment commitment for any reason, including due to prolonged downtime or a shutdown at Delek's refineries, our revenues and cash flow would decline.. A decline in production at Delek's Big Spring refinery could reduce materially the volume of refined products we transport and terminal for Delek and, as a result, our revenues could be materially adversely affected. The Big Spring refinery could partially or completely shut down its operations, temporarily or permanently, due to factors affecting its ability to produce refined products or for planned maintenance or capital projects. Such factors would include the factors discussed above under the discussion of risk with respect to the Navajo refinery.. -. 20. -. The effect on us of any shutdown depends on the length of the shutdown and the extent of the refinery operations affected. We have no control over the factors that may lead to a shutdown or the measures Delek may take in response to a shutdown. Delek makes all decisions and is responsible for all costs at the Big Spring refinery concerning levels of production, regulatory compliance, refinery turnarounds, labor relations, environmental remediation, emission control and capital expenditures.. In addition, under our throughput agreement with Delek, if we are unable to transport or terminal refined products that Delek is prepared to ship, then Delek has the right to reduce its minimum volume commitment to us during the period of interruption. If a force majeure event occurs, we or Delek could terminate the Delek pipelines and terminals agreement after the expiration of certain time periods. The occurrence of any of these events could reduce our revenues and cash flows.. Due to our lack of asset and geographic diversification, adverse developments in our businesses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. We rely exclusively on the revenues generated from our business. Due to our lack of asset and geographic diversification, especially our large concentration of pipeline assets serving the Navajo refinery, an adverse development in our business (including adverse developments due to catastrophic events or weather, decreased supply of crude oil and feedstocks and/or decreased demand for refined petroleum products), could have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets in more diverse locations.. Our leverage may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, comply with the terms of our indebtedness or capitalize on business opportunities.. As of December 31, 2017, the principal amount of our total outstanding debt was $1,512 million. Our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates above current levels. Various limitations in our Credit Agreement and the indenture for our 6.0% senior notes due 2024 (the \"6% Senior Notes\") may reduce our ability to incur additional debt, to engage in some transactions and to capitalize on business opportunities. Any subsequent refinancing of our current indebtedness or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions.. Our leverage could have important consequences. We require substantial cash flow to meet our payment obligations with respect to our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments, to refinance our obligations with respect to our indebtedness or our ability to obtain additional financing in the future will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to then-current economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors. We believe that we will have sufficient cash flow from operations and available borrowings under our  Credit Agreement to service our indebtedness. However, a significant downturn in our business or other development adversely affecting our cash flow could materially impair our ability to service our indebtedness. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to refinance all or a portion of our debt or sell assets. We cannot guarantee that we would be able to refinance our existing indebtedness at maturity or otherwise or sell assets on terms that are commercially reasonable.. The instruments governing our debt contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain beneficial transactions. The agreements governing our debt generally require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on incurring additional debt, entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets, making investments and granting liens. Our leverage may affect adversely our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general partnership requirements, future acquisitions, construction or development activities, or to otherwise realize fully the value of our assets and opportunities because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness or to comply with any restrictive terms of our indebtedness. Our leverage also may make our results of operations more susceptible to adverse economic and industry conditions by limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and may place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that have less debt.. We may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of volatility and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs.. The domestic and global financial markets and economic conditions are disrupted and volatile from time to time due to a variety of factors, including low consumer confidence, high unemployment, geoeconomic and geopolitical issues, weak economic conditions and uncertainty in the financial services sector. In addition, the fixed-income markets have experienced periods of extreme volatility, which negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. As a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially at times while the availability of funds from these markets diminished significantly. In particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets may increase as many lenders and institutional. -. 21. -. investors increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduce, or in some cases cease, to provide funding to borrowers. In addition, lending counterparties under existing revolving credit facilities and other debt instruments may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations.. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to:. • meet our obligations as they come due;. • execute our growth strategy;. • complete future acquisitions or construction projects;. • take advantage of other business opportunities; or. • respond to competitive pressures.. Any of the above could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.. We may not be able to fully execute our growth strategy if we encounter illiquid capital markets or increased competition for investment opportunities, if our assumptions concerning population growth are inaccurate, or if an agreement cannot be reached with HFC for the acquisition of assets on which we have a right of first offer.. Our strategy contemplates growth through the development and acquisition of crude, intermediate and refined products transportation and storage assets while maintaining a strong balance sheet. This strategy includes constructing and acquiring additional assets and businesses, either from HFC or third parties, to enhance our ability to compete effectively and diversifying our asset portfolio, thereby providing more stable cash flow. We regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding, and are currently contemplating and/or pursuing, potential joint ventures, stand-alone projects or other transactions that we believe will present opportunities to realize synergies, expand our role in our chosen businesses and increase our market position.. We will require substantial new capital to finance the future development and acquisition of assets and businesses. Any limitations on our access to capital will impair our ability to execute this strategy. If the cost of such capital becomes too expensive, or if the development or acquisition opportunities are on terms that do not allow us to obtain appropriate financing, our ability to develop or acquire accretive assets will be limited. We may not be able to raise the necessary funds on satisfactory terms, if at all. The primary factors that influence our cost of equity include market conditions, fees we pay to underwriters and other offering costs, which include amounts we pay for legal and accounting services. The primary factors influencing our cost of borrowing include interest rates, credit spreads, credit ratings, covenants, underwriting or loan origination fees and similar charges we pay to lenders.. In addition, we experience competition for the types of assets and businesses we have historically purchased or acquired. High competition, particularly for a limited pool of assets, may result in higher, less attractive asset prices, and therefore, we may lose to more competitive bidders. Such occurrences limit our ability to execute our growth strategy, which may materially adversely affect our ability to maintain or pay higher distributions in the future.. Our growth strategy also depends upon:. • the accuracy of our assumptions about growth in the markets that we currently serve or have plans to serve in the Southwestern, Northwest and Mid-Continent regions of the United States;. • HFC's willingness and ability to capture a share of additional demand in its existing markets; and. • HFC's willingness and ability to identify and penetrate new markets in the Southwestern, Northwest and Mid-Continent regions of the United States.. If our assumptions about increased market demand prove incorrect, HFC may not have any incentive to increase refinery capacity and production or shift additional throughput to our pipelines, which would adversely affect our growth strategy.. Our Omnibus Agreement with HFC provides us with a right of first offer on certain of HFC's existing or acquired logistics assets. The consummation and timing of any future acquisitions of these assets will depend upon, among other things, our ability to negotiate acceptable purchase agreements and commercial agreements with respect to the assets and our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate any future acquisitions pursuant to our right of first offer. In addition, certain of the assets covered by our right of first offer may require substantial capital expenditures in order to maintain compliance with applicable regulatory requirements or otherwise make them suitable for our commercial needs. For these or a variety of other reasons, we may decide not to exercise our right of first offer if and when any assets are offered for sale, and our decision will not be subject to unitholder approval. In addition, our right of first offer may be terminated upon a change of control of HFC.. -. 22. -. We are exposed to the credit risks and certain other risks, of our key customers, vendors, and other counterparties.. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers, vendors or other counterparties. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from contracts with key customers, including HFC and Delek under their respective pipelines and terminals, tankage, tolling and throughput agreements. To the extent that our customers may be unable to meet the specifications of their customers, we would be adversely affected unless we were able to make comparably profitable arrangements with other customers.. Mergers among our existing customers could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to use systems other than ours, and we could experience difficulty in replacing lost volumes and revenues. Because a significant portion of our operating costs are fixed, a reduction in volumes would result not only in a reduction of revenues, but also a decline in net income and cash flow of a similar magnitude, which would reduce our ability to meet our financial obligations and make distributions to unitholders.. If any of our key customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. In addition, nonperformance by vendors who have committed to provide us with products or services could result in higher costs or interfere with our ability to successfully conduct our business.. Any substantial increase in the nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers or vendors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, in connection with the acquisition of certain of our assets, we have entered into agreements pursuant to which various counterparties, including HFC,  have agreed to indemnify us, subject to certain limitations, for:. • certain pre-closing environmental liabilities discovered within specified time periods after the date of the applicable acquisition;. • certain matters arising from the pre-closing ownership and operation of assets; and. • ongoing remediation related to the assets.. Our business, results of operation, cash flows and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected in the future if third parties fail to satisfy an indemnification obligation owed to us.. Competition from other pipelines that may be able to supply our shippers' customers with refined products at a lower price could cause us to reduce our rates or could reduce our revenues.. We and our shippers could face increased competition if other pipelines are able to supply our shippers' end-user markets competitively with refined products. For example, increased supplies of refined product delivered by Kinder Morgan's El Paso to Phoenix pipeline could result in additional downward pressure on wholesale-refined product prices and refined product margins in El Paso and related markets. Additionally, further increases in products from Gulf Coast refiners entering the El Paso and Arizona markets on this pipeline and a resulting increase in the demand for shipping product on the interconnecting common carrier pipelines could cause a decline in the demand for refined product from HFC and/or Delek. This could reduce our opportunity to earn revenues from HFC and Delek in excess of their minimum volume commitment obligations.. An additional factor that could affect some of HFC's and Delek's markets is excess pipeline capacity from the West Coast into our shippers' Arizona markets. Additional increases in shipments of refined products from the West Coast into our shippers' Arizona markets could result in additional downward pressure on refined product prices that, if sustained over the long term, could influence product shipments by HFC and Delek to these markets.. A material decrease in the supply, or a material increase in the price, of crude oil available to HFC's and Delek's refineries, and a corresponding decrease in demand for refined products in the markets served by our pipelines and terminals, could reduce our revenues materially.. The volume of refined products we transport in our refined product pipelines depends on the level of production of refined products from HFC's and Delek's refineries, which, in turn, depends on the availability of attractively-priced crude oil produced in the areas accessible to those refineries. In order to maintain or increase production levels at their refineries, our shippers must continually contract for new crude oil supplies. A material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply their refineries, as a result of depressed commodity prices, decreased demand, lack of drilling activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil our shippers refine, absent the availability of transported crude oil to offset such. -. 23. -. declines. Such an event would result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products transported through our pipelines and therefore a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. In addition, the future growth of our shippers' operations will depend in part upon whether our shippers can contract for additional supplies of crude oil at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in their currently connected supplies.. Fluctuations in crude oil prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as crude oil prices decrease. We and our shippers have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital, or over the level of drilling activity in the areas of operations, the amount of reserves underlying the wells and the rate at which production from a well will decline. Similarly, a material increase in the price of crude oil supplied to our shippers' refineries without an increase in the market value of the products produced by the refineries, either temporary or permanent, which causes a reduction in the production of refined products at the refineries, would cause a reduction in the volumes of refined products we transport, and our cash flow could be adversely affected.. Finally, our business depends in large part on the demand for the various petroleum products we gather, transport and store in the markets we serve. Reductions in that demand adversely affect our business. Market demand varies based upon the different end uses of the petroleum products we gather, transport and store. We cannot predict the impact of future fuel conservation measures, alternate fuel requirements, government regulation, technological advances in fuel economy and energy-generation devices, exploration and production activities, and actions by foreign nations, any of which could reduce the demand for the petroleum products in the areas we serve.. We may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers.. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain attractive revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors outside our control, including competition from other pipelines and the demand for refined products in the markets that we serve. Our long-term pipeline and terminal, tankage and refinery processing unit throughput agreements with HFC and Delek expire beginning in 2019 through 2036.. Our operations are subject to evolving federal, state and local laws, regulations and permit/authorization requirements regarding environmental protection, health, operational safety and product quality.  Potential liabilities arising from these laws, regulations and requirements could affect our operations and adversely affect our performance.. Our pipelines and terminal, tankage and loading rack operations are subject to increasingly strict environmental and safety laws and regulations.. Environmental laws and regulations have raised operating costs for the oil and refined products industry, and compliance with such laws and regulations may cause us, and the HFC and Delek refineries that we support, to incur potentially material capital expenditures associated with the construction, maintenance, and upgrading of equipment and facilities. Future environmental, health and safety requirements (or changed interpretations of existing requirements) may impose new and/or more stringent requirements on our assets and operations and require us to incur potentially material expenditures to ensure our continued compliance.. Our operations require numerous permits and authorizations under various laws and regulations, including environmental and worker health and safety laws and regulations.  In May 2015, the EPA published a final rule that has the potential to greatly expand the definition of \"waters of the United States\" under the federal Clean Water Act (\"CWA\") and the jurisdiction of the Corps.  The rule is currently subject to a number of legal challenges in federal court.  The EPA and the Corps have proposed to repeal the May 2015 rule and have separately announced their intention to issue a revised rule defining the scope of the CWA's jurisdiction.  The agencies have also issued a stay delaying implementation of the rule for two years.  To the extent any final rule on the scope of the CWA expands jurisdictional waters, we could face increased costs and delays with respect to obtaining permits for dredge and fill activities in wetland areas. These and other authorizations and permits are subject to revocation, renewal, modification, or third party challenge, and can require operational changes that may involve significant costs to limit impacts or potential impacts on the environment and/or worker health and safety. A violation of these authorization or permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations and injunctions prohibiting our operations. In addition, major modifications of our operations could require modifications to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. -. 24. -. We may also be required to address conditions discovered in the future that require environmental response actions or remediation. The transportation and storage of refined products produces a risk that refined products and other hydrocarbons may be suddenly or gradually released into the environment, potentially causing substantial expenditures for a response action, significant government penalties, liability to government agencies for natural resources damages, personal injury or property damages to private parties and significant business interruption. Further, we own or lease a number of properties that have been used to store or distribute refined products for many years. Many of these properties have also been operated by third parties whose handling, disposal, or release of hydrocarbons and other wastes were not under our control.  Environmental laws can impose strict, joint and several liability for releases of hazardous substances into the environment, and we could find ourselves liable for past releases caused by third parties.  If we were to incur a significant liability pursuant to environmental laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on us.. Currently, various legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane and other gases) are in various phases of discussion or implementation. These include requirements that HFC's and Delek's refineries  report emissions of greenhouse gases to the EPA, and proposed federal, state, and regional initiatives that require (or could require) us, HFC and Delek to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our facilities. Requiring reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could cause us to incur substantial costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions programs, including the acquisition or maintenance of emission credits or allowances or the payment of carbon taxes. These requirements may affect HFC's and Delek's refinery operations and have an indirect adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of our operations.. Requiring a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and the increased use of renewable fuels could also decrease demand for refined products, which could have an indirect, but material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in 2010 and again in 2016, the EPA promulgated a rule establishing greenhouse gas emission standards for new-model passenger cars, light-duty trucks, and medium-duty passenger vehicles. Also in 2010, the EPA promulgated a rule establishing greenhouse gas emission thresholds for the permitting of certain stationary sources, which could require greenhouse emission controls for those sources. In addition, the EPA finalized new regulations in 2016 that limit methane emissions from certain new and modified oil and gas facilities. However, in June 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of the June 2016 standards for two years and re-evaluate the entirety of the 2016 standards but the EPA has not yet published a final rule and, as a result, the June 2016 rule remains in effect but future implementation of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time.  These requirements could, to the extent fully implemented, result in increased compliance costs and could also have an indirect adverse effect on our business due to reduced demand for crude oil and refined products, and a direct adverse effect on our business from increased regulation of our facilities.. We may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from performance of pipeline integrity programs and related repairs.. PHMSA regulations require pipeline operators to develop and implement integrity management programs for certain pipelines that, in the event of a pipeline leak or rupture could affect \"high consequence areas,\" which are areas where a release could have the most significant adverse consequences, including certain population areas, certain drinking water sources and unusually sensitive ecological areas.  These regulations require operators of covered pipelines to perform a variety of heightened assessment, analysis, prevention and repair activities.  Routine assessments under the integrity management program may result in findings that require repairs or other actions.. Moreover, changes to pipeline safety laws by Congress and regulations by PHMSA or states that result in more stringent or costly safety standards could possibly have a substantial effect on us and similarly situated midstream operators.. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to pipeline safety that require the use of new or more stringent safety controls or result in more stringent enforcement of applicable legal requirements could subject us to increased capital costs, operational delays and costs of operation.. Among other things, the 2011 Amendments to the Pipeline Safety Act direct the Secretary of Transportation to study, and where appropriate based on the results and statutory factors, promulgate regulations relating to expanded integrity management requirements, automatic or remote-controlled valves, leak detection, and other requirements.  The 2011 Amendments also increased the maximum penalty for violation of pipeline safety regulations from $100,000 to $200,000 per violation per day and also from $1 million to $2 million for a related series of violations. Effective April 27, 2017, to account for inflation, those maximum civil penalties were increased to $209,002 per violation per day, with a maximum of $2,090,022 for a related series of violations.  The safety enhancement requirements and other provisions of the 2011 Amendments as well as any implementation of PHMSA regulations thereunder, reinterpretation of existing laws or regulations, or any issuance or reinterpretation of guidance by PHMSA or any state agencies with respect to the 2011 Amendments could require us to install new or modified safety controls, pursue additional capital projects or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis, any or all of which tasks could result in our. -. 25. -. incurring increased operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. Congress made additional changes to the Pipeline Safety Laws in 2016 that require PHMSA to issue additional regulations and perform studies that may or may not lead to additional requirements in the future. There are numerous, currently pending PHMSA rulemaking proceedings on a variety of pipeline safety topics.  PHMSA's rulemakings are intended to implement the 2011 and 2016 statutory changes, as well as additional policy priorities.  PHMSA has delayed implementation of these regulations, but they are expected to become effective in 2018.  Any such new and expanded requirements may result in additional capital costs, possible operational delays and increased costs of operation that, in some instances, may be significant.. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business.. We use both fixed and variable rate debt, and we are exposed to market risk due to the floating interest rates on our credit facility. From time to time we use interest rate derivatives to hedge interest obligations on specific debt. In addition, interest rates on future debt offerings could be higher, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. Our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates above current levels.. We may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security.. Information technology system failures, network disruptions (whether intentional by a third party or due to natural disaster), breaches of network or data security, or disruption or failure of the network system used to monitor and control pipeline operations could disrupt our operations by impeding our processing of transactions, our ability to protect customer or company information and our financial reporting. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, could be damaged or interrupted by power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, tornadoes and hurricanes, and/or errors by our employees. Although we have taken steps to address these concerns by implementing sophisticated network security and internal control measures, a system failure or data security breach could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured.. Our operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, tornadoes, earthquakes, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, cyber-attacks, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. These events could result in an injury, loss of life, or property damage or destruction, as well as a curtailment or interruption in our operations. In addition, third-party damage, mechanical malfunctions, undetected leaks in pipelines, faulty measurement or other errors may result in significant costs or lost revenues.. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates and exclusions from coverage may limit our ability to recover the amount of the full loss in all situations. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage.. There can be no assurance that insurance will cover all or any damages and losses resulting from these types of hazards. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business and therefore, we self-insure certain risks. We are not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, other than limited coverage for certain third party sudden and accidental claims. Our property insurance includes business interruption coverage for lost profit arising from physical damage to our facilities. If a significant accident or event occurs that is self-insured or not fully insured, our operations could be temporarily or permanently impaired,  our liabilities and expenses could be significant and it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Because of our distribution policy, we do not have the same flexibility as other legal entities to accumulate cash to protect against underinsured or uninsured losses.. Any reduction in the capacity of, or the allocations to, our shippers on interconnecting, third-party pipelines could cause a reduction of volumes transported in our pipelines and through our terminals.. HFC, Delek and the other users of our pipelines and terminals are dependent upon connections to third-party pipelines to receive and deliver crude oil and refined products. Any reduction of capacities of these interconnecting pipelines due to testing, line repair, reduced operating pressures, or other causes could result in reduced volumes transported in our pipelines or through our terminals. Similarly, if additional shippers begin transporting volumes of refined products over interconnecting pipelines, the allocations to existing shippers in these pipelines would be reduced, which could also reduce volumes transported in our pipelines or through our terminals.. -. 26. -. We could be subject to damages based on claims brought against us by our customers or lose customers as a result of the failure of products we distribute to meet certain quality specifications.  In addition, we could be required to make substantial expenditures in the event of any changes in product quality specifications.. A significant portion of our operating responsibility on refined product pipelines is to ensure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our loading racks. If our quality control measures fail, off-specification product could be sent out to public gasoline stations. This type of incident could result in liability claims regarding damages caused by the off-specification fuel or could impact our ability to retain existing customers or to acquire new customers, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, various federal, state and local agencies have the authority to prescribe specific product quality specifications of refined products. Changes in product quality specifications or blending requirements could reduce our throughput volume, require us to incur additional handling costs or require capital expenditures. For example, different product specifications for different markets impact the fungibility of the products in our system and could require the construction of additional storage. If we are unable to recover these costs through increased revenues, our cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions could be adversely affected. In addition, changes in the product quality of the products we receive on our petroleum products pipeline system could reduce or eliminate our ability to blend products.. Growing our business by constructing new pipelines and terminals, or expanding existing ones, subjects us to construction risks.. One of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new pipelines and terminals or the expansion of existing ones. The construction of a new pipeline or the expansion of an existing pipeline, by adding horsepower or pump stations or by adding a second pipeline along an existing pipeline, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control.  For example, pipeline construction projects requiring federal approvals are generally subject to environmental review requirements under the National Environmental Policy Act, and must also comply with other natural resource review requirements imposed pursuant to the Endangered Species Act and the National Historic Preservation Act. These projects may not be completed on schedule (or at all) or at the budgeted cost. In addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. Moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand for refined products in a region in which such growth does not materialize. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Rate regulation, changes to rate-making rules, or a successful challenge to the rates we charge may reduce our revenues and the amount of cash we generate.. The FERC regulates the tariff rates for interstate movements and state regulatory authorities regulate the tariff rates for intrastate movements on our pipeline systems. The regulatory agencies that regulate our systems periodically implement new rules, regulations and terms and conditions of services subject to their jurisdiction. New initiatives or orders may adversely affect the rates charged for our services.. The primary rate-making methodology of the FERC is price indexing. We use this methodology in all of our interstate markets. The indexing method allows a pipeline to increase its rates based on a percentage change in the PPI for finished goods. If the index falls, we will be required to reduce our rates that are based on the FERC's price indexing methodology if they exceed the new maximum allowable rate. If the FERC price indexing methodology permits a rate increase that is not large enough to fully reflect actual increases in our costs, we may need to file for a rate increase using an alternative method with a much higher burden of proof and without the guarantee of success. These FERC rate-making methodologies may limit our ability to set rates based on our true costs or may delay the use of rates that reflect increased costs. On October 20, 2016, the FERC issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding Revisions to Indexing Policies and Page 700 of FERC Form No. 6, 157 FERC ¶ 61, 047 (2016) (\"ANOPR\"). If final rules are implemented as proposed in that ANOPR, such rules would create new tests for whether our pipelines providing service subject to FERC tariffs could increase rates in accordance with the FERC index in a given year and could restrict our ability to increase our rates as a result, in addition to increasing our annual reporting burdens and the associated costs. Any of the foregoing would adversely affect our revenues and cash flow.. If a party with an economic interest were to file either a protest of our proposal for increased rates or a complaint against our existing tariff rates, or the FERC were to initiate an investigation of our existing rates, then our rates could be subject to detailed review. If our proposed rate increases were found to be in excess of levels justified by our cost of service, the FERC could order us to reduce our rates, and to refund the amount by which the rate increases were determined to be excessive, plus interest. If our. -. 27. -. existing rates were found to be in excess of our cost of services, we could be ordered to refund the excess we collected for up to two years prior to the date of the filing of the complaint challenging the rates, and we could be ordered to reduce our rates prospectively. Also relevant to our rates and cost of service, on December 15, 2016, the FERC issued a Notice of Inquiry Regarding the Commission's Policy for Recovery of Income Tax Costs, 157 FERC ¶ 61,210 (2016) (the \"NOI\"). The NOI sought comments on how the FERC should address any double recovery for partnership pipelines resulting from the FERC's current income tax allowance and rate of return policies. If the NOI results in final regulations or policy changes that alter the FERC's current approach to liquids pipeline ratemaking and the relevant components of our interstate pipeline transportation rates, those changes could require us to change our rate design and potentially lower our rates. In addition, a state commission also could investigate our intrastate rates or our terms and conditions of service on its own initiative or at the urging of a shipper or other interested party. If a state commission found that our rates exceeded levels justified by our cost of service, the state commission could order us to reduce our rates. Any such reductions may result in lower revenues and cash flows if additional volumes and/or capacity are unavailable to offset such rate reductions.. HFC and Delek have agreed not to challenge, or to cause others to challenge or assist others in challenging, our tariff rates in effect during the terms of their respective pipelines and terminals agreements; however, other current or future shippers may still challenge our tariff rates.. Terrorist attacks (including cyber-attacks), and the threat of terrorist attacks or domestic vandalism, have resulted in increased costs to our business. Continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations.. The long-term impact of terrorist attacks and the threat of future terrorist attacks, on the energy transportation industry in general, and on us in particular, is unknown. Increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks or vandalism have resulted in increased costs to our business. Uncertainty surrounding continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror, may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products.. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks could make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital including our ability to repay or refinance debt.. The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations or \"cyber security\" events.  These potential targets might include our pipeline systems or operating systems and may affect our ability to operate or control our pipeline assets, our operations could be disrupted and/or customer information could be stolen. The occurrence of one of these events could cause a substantial decrease in revenues, increased costs to respond or other financial loss, damage to reputation, increased regulation or litigation and or inaccurate information reported from our operations.  These developments may subject our operations to increased risks, as well as increased costs, and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Adverse changes in our and/or our general partner's credit ratings and risk profile may negatively affect us.. Our ability to access capital markets is important to our ability to operate our business. Regional and national economic conditions, increased scrutiny of the energy industry and regulatory changes, as well as changes in our economic performance, could result in credit agencies reexamining our credit rating.. We are in compliance with all covenants or other requirements set forth in our Credit Agreement. Further, we do not have any rating downgrade triggers that would automatically accelerate the maturity dates of any debt.. While credit ratings reflect the opinions of the credit agencies issuing such ratings and may not necessarily reflect actual performance, a downgrade in our credit rating could affect adversely our ability to borrow on, renew existing, or obtain access to new financing arrangements, could increase the cost of such financing arrangements, could reduce our level of capital expenditures and could impact our future earnings and cash flows.. The credit and business risk profiles of our general partner, and of HFC as the indirect owner of our general partner, may be factors in credit evaluations of us as a master limited partnership due to the significant influence of our general partner and its indirect owner over our business activities, including our cash distribution acquisition strategy and business risk profile. Another factor that may be considered is the financial condition of our general partner and its owners, including the degree of their financial leverage and their dependence on cash flow from the partnership to service their indebtedness.. -. 28. -. We may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations of the assets we have acquired or may acquire with our operations, and in realizing all or any part of the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions.. From time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and businesses.  Acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. Our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly as a result of completed or future acquisitions. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them, and new geographic areas and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Also, following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business or assets for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions.. We own certain of our systems through joint ventures, and our control of such systems is limited by provisions of the agreements we have entered into with our joint venture partners and by our percentage ownership in such joint ventures.. Although our subsidiary is the operator of the UNEV pipeline and we own a majority interest in the joint venture that owns the UNEV pipeline, the joint venture agreement for the UNEV pipeline generally requires consent of our joint venture partner(s) for specified extraordinary transactions, such as reversing the flow of the pipeline or increasing the fees paid to our subsidiary pursuant to the operating agreement.. In addition, certain of our systems are operated by joint venture entities that we do not operate, or in which we do not have an ownership stake that permits us to control the business activities of the entity. We have limited ability to influence the business decisions of such joint venture entities.. Because we have partial ownership in the joint ventures, we may be unable to control the amount of cash we will receive from the operation and could be required to contribute significant cash to fund our share of their operations, which could adversely affect our ability to distribute cash to our unitholders.. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner, if we incur increased maintenance or repair costs on assets, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving construction of new facilities (or improvements and increased maintenance or repair expenditures on our existing facilities) could adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted operating results. Although we evaluate and monitor each capital spending project and try to anticipate difficulties that may arise, such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of numerous factors, such as:. • denial or delay in issuing requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits;. • unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor;. • disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials;. • severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, or other events (such as equipment malfunctions explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers;. • shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages;. • market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and/or. • nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors, or sub-contractors involved with a project.. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. We do not own all of the land on which our pipeline systems and other assets are located, which could result in disruptions to our operations.  Additionally, a change in the regulations related to a state's use of eminent domain could inhibit our ability to secure rights-of-way for future pipeline construction projects. Finally, certain of our assets are located on tribal lands.. We do not own all of the land on which our pipeline systems and other assets are located, and we are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs or more burdensome terms to maintain necessary land use. We obtain the right to construct and operate pipelines. -. 29. -. and other assets on land owned by third parties and government agencies for specified periods. If we were to lose these rights through an inability to renew leases, right-of-way contracts or similar agreements, we may be required to relocate our pipelines or other assets and our business could be adversely affected. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or leases or to renew existing rights-of-way or leases. If the cost of obtaining  or renewing such agreements increases, it may adversely affect our operations and the cash flows available for distribution to unitholders.. The adoption or amendment of laws and regulations that limit or eliminate a state's ability to exercise eminent domain over private property in a state in which we operate could make it more difficult or costly for us to secure rights-of-way for future pipeline construction and other projects.. Certain of our pipelines are located on Native American tribal lands. Various federal agencies, along with each Native American tribe, promulgate and enforce regulations, including environmental standards, regarding operations on Native American tribal lands. In addition, each Native American tribe is a sovereign nation having the right to enforce laws and regulations (including various taxes, fees, and other requirements and conditions) and to grant approvals independent from federal, state and local statutes and regulations. Following a recent decision issued in May 2017 by the federal Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals, tribal ownership of even a very small fractional interest in an allotted land, that is, tribal land owned or at one time owned by an individual Native American landowner, bars condemnation of any interest in the allotment.  Consequently, the inability to condemn such allotted lands under circumstances where existing pipeline rights-of-way may soon lapse or terminate serves as an additional impediment for pipeline operations.  These factors may increase our cost of doing business on Native American tribal lands.. Our business may suffer due to a change in the composition of our Board of Directors, if any of our key senior executives or other key employees who provide services to us discontinue employment, or if certain of our executive officers, who also allocate time to our general partner and its affiliates, do not have enough time to dedicate to our business. Furthermore, a shortage of skilled labor or disruptions in the labor force that provides services to us may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity.. Our future success depends to a large extent on the services of HLS's Board of Directors, key senior executives and key senior employees who provide services to us. Also, our business depends on the continuing ability to recruit, train and retain highly qualified employees in all areas of our operations, including accounting, business operations, finance and other key back-office and mid-office personnel. The competition for these employees is intense, and the loss of these executives or employees could harm our business. If any of these executives or other key personnel resign or become unable to continue in their present roles and are not adequately replaced, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. We do not maintain any \"key man\" life insurance for any executives. Furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks.. Our general partner shares officers and administrative personnel with HFC to operate both our business and HFC's business.  These officers face conflicts regarding the allocation of their and other employees' time, which may affect adversely our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. A portion of HFC's employees that are seconded to us from time to time are represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements with various expiration dates. HFC may not be able to renegotiate the collective bargaining agreements when they expire on satisfactory terms or at all. A failure to do so may increase our costs. In addition, existing labor agreements may not prevent a future strike or work stoppage, and any work stoppage could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.. RISKS TO COMMON UNITHOLDERS. HFC and its affiliates may have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests.. Currently, HFC indirectly owns a 57% limited partner interest and a non-economic general partner interest in us and controls HLS, the general partner of our general partner, HEP Logistics. Conflicts of interest may arise between HFC and its affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, the general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its other affiliates over our interests. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations:. -. 30. -. • HFC, as a shipper on our pipelines, has an economic incentive not to cause us to seek higher tariff rates or terminalling fees, even if such higher rates or terminalling fees would reflect rates that could be obtained in arm's-length, third-party transactions;. • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires HFC to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, including whether to increase or decrease refinery production, whether to shut down or reconfigure a refinery, or what markets to pursue or grow. HFC's directors and officers have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interests of the stockholders of HFC;. • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as HFC, in resolving conflicts of interest;. • our partnership agreement provides for modified or reduced fiduciary duties for our general partner, and also restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without the limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty;. • our general partner determines which costs incurred by HFC and its affiliates are reimbursable by us;. • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf;. • our general partner may, in some circumstances, cause us to borrow funds to make cash distributions, even where the purpose or effect of the borrowing benefits our general partner or affiliates;. • our general partner determines the amount and timing of our asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures and borrowings, each of which can affect the amount of cash available to us; and. • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our general partner and its affiliates, including the pipelines and terminals agreement with HFC.. Cost reimbursements, which will be determined by our general partner, and fees due to our general partner and its affiliates for services provided, are substantial.. Under our Omnibus Agreement, we are obligated to pay HFC an administrative fee of currently $2.5 million per year for the provision by HFC or its affiliates of various general and administrative services for our benefit. Beginning July 1, 2018, the administrative fee will be subject to an annual upward adjustment for changes in PPI.  In addition, we are required to reimburse HFC pursuant to the secondment arrangement for the wages, benefits, and other costs of HFC employees seconded to HLS to perform services at certain of our processing, refining, pipeline and tankage assets. We can neither provide assurance that HFC will continue to provide us the officers and employees that are necessary for the conduct of our business nor that such provision will be on terms that are acceptable to us. If HFC fails to provide us with adequate personnel, our operations could be adversely impacted.. The administrative fee and secondment allocations are subject to annual review and may increase if we make an acquisition that requires an increase in the level of general and administrative services that we receive from HFC or its affiliates. Our general partner will determine the amount of general and administrative expenses that will be allocated to us in accordance with the terms of our partnership agreement. In addition, our general partner and its affiliates are entitled to reimbursement for all other expenses they incur on our behalf, including the salaries of and the cost of employee benefits for employees of HLS who provide services to us.. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including officers and directors of the general partner, for all expenses incurred on our behalf, plus the administrative fee. The reimbursement of expenses and the payment of fees could adversely affect our ability to make distributions. The general partner has sole discretion to determine the amount of these expenses. Our general partner and its affiliates also may provide us other services for which we are charged fees as determined by our general partner.. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity to make acquisitions, fund expansion capital expenditures, or for other purposes.. As with other yield-oriented securities, our unit price is impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank related yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our units and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our unit price and our ability to issue additional equity to make acquisitions, fund expansion capital expenditures or for other purposes.  If we then issue additional equity at a significantly lower price, material dilution to our existing unitholders could result.. -. 31. -. Even if unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot remove our general partner without its consent.. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect our general partner or the board of directors of HLS and have no right to do so on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of HLS is chosen by the sole member of HLS. If unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units trade could be diminished because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price.. The vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all outstanding units voting together as a single class is required to remove the general partner. Unitholders will be unable to remove the general partner without its consent because the general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to prevent its removal. Unitholders' voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding (other than the general partner, its affiliates, their transferees, and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of the general partner's general partner) cannot vote on any matter; however, no such person currently exists. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings, acquire information about our operations, and influence the manner or direction of management.. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. Furthermore, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the partners of our general partner from transferring their respective partnership interests in our general partner to a third party. The new partners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of the general partner of our general partner with their own choices and to control the decisions made by the board of directors and officers.. We may issue additional limited partner units without unitholder approval, which would dilute an existing unitholder's ownership interests.. Under our partnership agreement, provided there is no significant decrease in our operating performance, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders, and HEP currently has a shelf registration on file with the SEC pursuant to which it may issue up to $2.0 billion in additional common units.  On May 10, 2016, HEP established a continuous offering program under the shelf registration statement pursuant to which HEP may issue and sell common units from time to time, representing limited partner interests, up to an aggregate gross sales amount of $200 million.  As of December 31, 2017, HEP has issued 2.2 million units under this program for gross consideration of $77 million.. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:. • our unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;. • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease;. • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and. • the market price of the common units may decline.. Our partnership agreement does not give our unitholders the right to approve our issuance of equity securities ranking junior to the common units at any time.. In establishing cash reserves, our general partner may reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders.. Our partnership agreement requires us to distribute all available cash to our unitholders; however, it also requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that it establishes are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, our partnership agreement permits our general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party, or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available to make the required payments to our debt holders or to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units every quarter.. -. 32. -. HFC and its affiliates may engage in limited competition with us.. HFC and its affiliates may engage in limited competition with us. Pursuant to the Omnibus Agreement, HFC and its affiliates agreed not to engage in the business of operating intermediate or refined product pipelines or terminals, crude oil pipelines or terminals, truck racks or crude oil gathering systems in the continental United States. The Omnibus Agreement, however, does not apply to:. • any business operated by HFC or any of its subsidiaries at the closing of our initial public offering;. • any business or asset that HFC or any of its subsidiaries acquires or constructs that has a fair market value or construction cost of less than $5 million; and. • any business or asset that HFC or any of its subsidiaries acquires or constructs that has a fair market value or construction cost of $5 million or more if we have been offered the opportunity to purchase the business or asset at fair market value, and we decline to do so.. In the event that HFC or its affiliates no longer control our partnership or there is a change of control of HFC, the non-competition provisions of the Omnibus Agreement will terminate.. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require a unitholder to sell its common units at an undesirable time or price.. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units (which it does not presently), our general partner will have the right (which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us) but not the obligation to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, a holder of common units may be required to sell its units at a time or price that is undesirable to it and may not receive any return on its investment. A common unitholder may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of its units.. A unitholder may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder actions constitute control of our business or that we have not complied with state partnership law.. Under Delaware law, a unitholder could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if a court determined that the right of unitholders to remove our general partner or to take other action under our partnership agreement constituted participation in the \"control\" of our business. Our general partner generally has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner.. In addition, Section 17-607 and 17-804 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that under some circumstances, a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution.. Further, we conduct business in a number of states. In some of those states the limitations on the liability of limited partners for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established. The unitholders might be held liable for the partnership's obligations as if they were a general partner if a court or government agency determined that we were conducting business in the state but had not complied with the state's partnership statute.. HFC may sell units in the public or private markets, and such sales could have an adverse impact on the trading price of the common units.  Additionally, HFC may pledge or hypothecate its common units or its interest in us.. HFC currently holds 59,630,030 of our common units, which is approximately 57% of our outstanding common units. The sale of these units in the public or private markets could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common units.  Additionally, we agreed to provide HFC registration rights with respect to our common units that it holds. HFC may pledge or hypothecate its common units, and such pledge or hypothecation may include terms and conditions that might result in an adverse impact on the trading price of our common units.. TAX RISKS TO COMMON UNITHOLDERS. Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes as well as us not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") were to. -. 33. -. treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or if we were to become subject to additional amounts of entity-level taxation for federal or state tax purposes, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced.. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we would be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a \"qualifying income\" requirement. Based upon our current operations,  we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement, or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate.  Distributions to unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units.. At the entity level, were we to be subject to federal income tax, we would also be subject to the income tax provisions of many states. Moreover, states are evaluating ways to independently subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income taxes, franchise taxes and other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay Texas margin tax on any income apportioned to Texas. Imposition of any additional such taxes on us or an increase in the existing tax rates would reduce the cash available for distributions to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us.. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis.. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes and differing interpretations at any time.  From time to time, members of Congress propose and consider similar substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. Although there is no current legislative proposal, a prior legislative proposal would have eliminated the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations, upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Any modification to the federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the qualifying income requirement to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. On January 24, 2017, the U.S. Treasury Department and the IRS published final regulations regarding which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Code (the \"Final Regulations\") in the Federal Register. The Final Regulations are effective as of January 19, 2017, and apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 19, 2017. We do not believe the Final Regulations affect our ability to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes.. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders.. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we have taken or may take on tax matters. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution.. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit. -. 34. -. adjustment directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced, and our current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us for any taxes (including applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments that were paid on their behalf.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns, it (and some states) may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us. Under our partnership agreement, our general partner is permitted to make elections under the new rules to either pay the taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly to the IRS or, if we are eligible, issue a revised information statement to each unitholder with respect to an audited and adjusted return. Although our general partner may elect to have our unitholders take such audit adjustment into account in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, there can be no assurance that such election will be practical, permissible or effective in all circumstances. As a result, our current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units in us during the tax year under audit. If, as a result of any such audit adjustment, we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced, and our current and former unitholders may be required to indemnify us for any taxes (including applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustments that were paid on their behalf.  These rules are not applicable for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017.. Even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us, you will be required to pay taxes on your share of our taxable income.. You will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on your share of our taxable income, whether or not you receive cash distributions from us. For example, if we sell assets and use the proceeds to repay existing debt or fund capital expenditures, you may be allocated taxable income and gain resulting from the sale and our cash available for distribution would not increase. Similarly, taking advantage of opportunities to reduce our existing debt, such as debt exchanges, debt repurchases, or modifications of our existing debt could result in \"cancellation of indebtedness income\" being allocated to you as taxable income without any increase in our cash available for distribution. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax due from you with respect to that income.. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected.. If a unitholder disposes of common units, it will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and its tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of a unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income result in a decrease of the unitholder's tax basis in its common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units sold will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if it sells such units at a price greater than its tax basis in those units, even if the price the unitholder receives is less than its original cost. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if unitholders sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale.. A substantial portion of the amount realized from the sale of a unitholder's common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to the unitholder due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. Thus, the unitholder may recognize both ordinary income and capital loss from the sale of such units if the amount realized on a sale of such units is less than the unitholder's adjusted basis in the units. Net capital loss may only offset capital gains and, in the case of individuals, up to $3,000 of ordinary income per year. In the taxable period in which the unitholder sells his units, the unitholder may recognize ordinary income from our allocations of income and gain to the unitholder prior to the sale and from recapture items that generally cannot be offset by any capital loss recognized upon the sale of units.. Unitholders may be subject to limitation on their ability to deduct interest expense incurred by us.. In general, we are entitled to a deduction for interest paid or accrued on indebtedness properly allocable to our trade or business during our taxable year. However, under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, our deduction for \"business interest\" is limited to the sum of our business interest income and 30% of our \"adjusted taxable income.\" For the purposes of this limitation, our adjusted taxable income is computed without regard to any business interest expense or business interest income, and in the case of taxable years beginning before January 1, 2022, any deduction allowable for depreciation, amortization, or depletion.  If this limitation were to apply with respect to a taxable year, it could result in an increase in the taxable income allocable to a unitholder for such taxable year without any corresponding increase in the cash available for distribution to such unitholder.. -. 35. -. Tax-exempt entities face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.. Investment in our common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Further, with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, a tax-exempt entity with more than one unrelated trade or business (including by attribution from investment in a partnership such as ours) is required to compute the unrelated business taxable income of such tax-exempt entity separately with respect to each such trade or business (including for purposes of determining any net operating loss deduction). As a result, for years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may not be possible for tax-exempt entities to utilize losses from an investment in our partnership to offset unrelated business taxable income from another unrelated trade or business and vice versa. Tax-exempt entities should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. Non-U.S. unitholders will be subject to U.S. taxes and withholding with respect to their income and gain from owning our units.. Non-U.S. unitholders are generally taxed and subject to U.S. income tax filing requirements on income effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business (\"effectively connected income\"). Income allocated to our unitholders and any gain from the sale of our units will generally be considered to be \"effectively connected\" with a U.S. trade or business.  As a result, distributions to a Non-U.S. unitholder will be subject to withholding at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and a non-U.S. unitholder who sells or otherwise disposes of a unit will also be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the gain realized from the sale or disposition of that unit.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act imposes a withholding obligation of 10% of the amount realized upon a non-U.S. unitholder's sale or exchange of an interest in a partnership that is engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, due to challenges of administering a withholding obligation applicable to open market trading and other complications, the IRS has temporarily suspended the application of this withholding rule to open market transfers of interest in publicly traded partnerships pending promulgation of regulations or other guidance that resolves the challenges.  It is not clear if or when such regulations or other guidance will be issued.  Non-U.S. unitholders should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units.. We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units.. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to their tax returns.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month (the \"Allocation Date\") based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. Similarly, we generally allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions, gain or loss realized on a sale or other disposition of our assets and, in the discretion of the general partner, any other extraordinary item of income, gain, loss or deduction based upon ownership on the Allocation Date. The U.S. Department of the Treasury adopted final Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention but such regulations do not specifically authorize all aspects of our proration method. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.. -. 36. -. A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a \"short seller\" to cover a short sale of units) may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, it would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.. Because there are no specific rules governing the federal income tax consequences of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, such unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units.. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining a unitholder's allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methodologies or the resulting allocations, which could adversely affect the value of our common units.. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, we must routinely determine the fair market value of our assets. Although we may, from time to time, consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets.  The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction.. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions.. Unitholders likely will be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our common units.. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders likely will be subject to other taxes, such as state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance, or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future. Unitholders likely will be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions, even if they do not live in these jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own property and conduct business in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Utah, Idaho, Oklahoma, Washington, Kansas, Wyoming and Nevada. We may own property or conduct business in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is the unitholder's responsibility to file all federal, state, local and foreign tax returns."
