[1] "Item  1A.  Risk Factors. In evaluating our business, the risks described below, as well as other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission should be considered carefully. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business. The occurrence of any of these events or circumstances could individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flow or results of operations. This report contains forward-looking statements; please refer to the cautionary statements made under the heading \"Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" for more information on the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements.. Risks Relating to our Business. Successful execution of the revenue growth plan for all of our divisions, but particularly for our newly-acquired Medical Aesthetics division, is essential to achieving our growth objectives and involves risk.. Our successful execution of the growth plan for our Medical Aesthetics business, which is essential to achieving our growth objectives, involves a number of risks.  Among other things:. • we may not be able to successfully commercialize our Medical Aesthetics product pipeline on a timely basis or at all;. • we may be unable to drive increased disposable utilization of our SculpSure or other future products; and. • we face competition from well-established companies operating in the Medical Aesthetics field, some of whom are much larger than we are and have more resources to devote to promoting the business.. Competition in the Medical Aesthetics device industry is intense.  Our Medical Aesthetics products compete against products offered by companies such as Cutera, Syneron Medical, and ZELTIQ Aesthetics (which was acquired by Allergan in 2017), as well as several smaller specialized companies, such as Alma Lasers (acquired in 2013 by Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical) and Lumenis. We also face competition against non-laser and non-light-based medical products, such as BOTOX and collagen injections, and surgical and non-surgical aesthetic procedures, such as face lifts, chemical peels, abdominoplasty, liposuction, microdermabrasion, sclerotherapy and electrolysis. We may also face competition from manufacturers of pharmaceutical and other products that have not yet been developed.  Additional competitors may enter the market, and we are likely to compete with new companies in the future.. In addition, Medical Aesthetics is a new type of business for the Company, requiring understanding of a new market as well as new products and procedures that are not subject to reimbursement.  As noted in a subsequent risk factor, the elective nature of the Medical Aesthetics procedures subjects our business to increased volatility due to macroeconomic conditions. We market our aesthetic treatment systems to physicians and other practitioners as well as to end-users directly. We believe, and our growth expectations assume, that we and other companies selling lasers and other aesthetic treatment systems have not fully penetrated these markets and that we will receive a significant percentage of our revenues from selling to these markets.  In addition, the commercial success of the Medical Aesthetics products and technology we develop will depend upon the acceptance of these products by providers of aesthetic procedures and their patients and clients. It is difficult for us to predict how successful recently introduced products, or products we are currently developing, will be over the long term. If our expectations as to the size of these markets and our ability to sell our products to participants in these markets are not correct, our revenues will suffer and our business will be harmed.. Additionally, as our Medical Aesthetics business is newly-acquired, we face risks relating to integration, including, among others:. • sales force and other employee turnover (including rebuilding the sales force of our Medical Aesthetics business);. • unforeseen internal control, regulatory or compliance issues;. • diversion of management's attention from day-to-day operations;. • difficulties or delays establishing, integrating or combining operations and systems (including accounting systems); and. • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers or customers.. Finally, the aesthetic laser and light-based treatment system industry is subject to continuous technological development and product innovation. If we do not continue to innovate and develop new products and applications within our Medical Aesthetics business, our competitive position will likely deteriorate as other companies successfully design and commercialize. 18. Table of Contents. new products and applications. Accordingly, the success of our Medical Aesthetics business depends in part on developing or acquiring new and innovative applications of laser and other light-based technology and identifying new markets for and applications of existing products and technology.. Any or all of these factors could impact our ability to successfully execute our Medical Aesthetics revenue growth plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Our long-term success will depend upon our ability to successfully develop and commercialize new products and treatments and enhance our existing products and treatments; the internal research and development and external business development activities necessary to do so involve risk.. The markets for our products have been characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions and evolving customer requirements. Our growth potential depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for or enhancements of existing products, either through internal research and development or through collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures or licensing or other arrangements with third parties. The development of new products and enhancement of existing products requires significant investment in research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals.. The results of our product development efforts may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new products, complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals and reimbursement in the U.S. and abroad, manufacture products in a cost-effective manner, obtain, maintain, protect and enforce appropriate intellectual property protection for our products, gain and maintain market approval of our products and access capital. If we are not able to successfully enhance existing products or develop new products, our products may be rendered obsolete or uncompetitive by new industry standards or changing technology. We cannot assure that any products now in development or that we may seek to develop in the future will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval or gain market acceptance, and we may be unable to recover all or a meaningful part of our investment in such products and technologies.. Additionally, as part of our long-term strategy, we are engaged in business development activities including evaluating acquisitions, joint development opportunities, technology licensing arrangements and other opportunities to further expand our presence in or diversify into priority growth areas by accessing new products and technologies.  We may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, consummate transactions or obtain agreements with favorable terms.  Further, once we acquire a business, such as Cynosure, for example, any inability to successfully integrate the business, decreases in customer loyalty or product orders, failure to retain and develop the acquired workforce, failure to establish and maintain appropriate controls or unknown or contingent liabilities could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. The integration of an acquired business such as Cynosure or any other acquired business, whether or not successful, requires significant efforts which may result in additional expenses and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel from other projects. These transactions are inherently risky, and there can be no assurance that any past or future transaction will be successful.. If we are successful in pursuing future acquisitions, we may be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt or other obligations, or issue additional securities, which may negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. If we spend significant funds or incur additional debt or other obligations, our ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes could be adversely affected, and we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to finance additional acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions that we complete.. If we fail to develop and successfully manufacture and launch new products, enhance existing products and identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses, technologies and products, our business, results of operations and/or financial condition could be adversely affected.. International expansion is a key component of our growth strategy, although our international operations and foreign acquisitions expose us to additional operational challenges that we might not otherwise face.. We are focused on international expansion as a key component of our growth strategy and have identified specific areas of opportunity in various international markets.  In fiscal 2017, 22.4% of our revenue came from outside of the U.S. If we fail to capitalize on the opportunities we have identified, our future growth may be materially adversely affected.. In addition, even if we do succeed in our plans to grow internationally, our future and existing international operations may subject us to a number of additional risks and expenses. Any of these risks or expenses could harm our operating results. These risks and expenses include:. • difficulties in developing staffing and simultaneously managing operations in multiple locations as a result of, among other things, distance, language and cultural differences;. • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies;. 19. Table of Contents. • difficulties in the collection of trade accounts receivable;. • difficulties and expenses related to implementing internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures;. • expenses associated with customizing products for clients in foreign countries;. • possible adverse tax consequences;. • the inability to obtain required regulatory approvals or favorable third-party reimbursement;. • governmental currency controls;. • multiple, conflicting and changing government laws and regulations (including, among other things, antitrust and tax requirements);. • operation in parts of the world where strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices;. • political and economic changes and disruptions, export/import controls and tariff regulations;. • the inability to effectively obtain, maintain, protect or enforce intellectual property rights, reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries, and the inability to otherwise protect against clone or \"knock off\" products; and. • the lack of ability to enforce non-compete agreements with former owners of acquired businesses competing with us in China and other foreign countries.. Our global operations are required to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (\"FCPA\"), Chinese anti-corruption and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions and with U.S. and foreign export control, trade embargo and customs laws. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, we could suffer civil and criminal sanctions.. Additionally, the regulatory environment in China is evolving, and officials in the Chinese government exercise broad discretion in deciding how to interpret and apply regulations. It is possible that the Chinese government's current or future interpretation and application of existing or new regulations will negatively impact our China operations, result in regulatory investigations or lead to fines or penalties.. Further, the June 2016 referendum in the United Kingdom (\"UK\") in which voters approved a withdrawal from the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit,\" has created uncertainty.  Subsequent to the referendum, in March 2017, the UK formally initiated its withdrawal from the European Union by triggering Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon.  As a result of the triggering of Article 50, the process of negotiating the terms of the UK's exit from the European Union, which is expected to take two years, has commenced.  Although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the UK and the European Union and increased regulatory complexities. We have a manufacturing facility in the UK. As a result of Brexit, we may face new regulatory costs and challenges that may have a material adverse effect on us and our operations.  For example, depending on the terms of Brexit, we could become subject to export tariffs and regulatory restrictions that could increase the costs and time related to doing business in Europe. Additionally, Brexit could result in the UK or the European Union significantly altering its regulations affecting the clearance or approval of our products that are developed or manufactured in the UK. Any new regulations could add time and expense to the conduct of our business, as well as the process by which our products receive regulatory approval in the UK, the European Union and elsewhere. Given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what economic, financial, trade and legal implications the withdrawal of the UK from the European Union would have and how such withdrawal may affect us.. Changes in currency exchange rates may reduce the reported value of our revenues outside the U.S., net of expenses, and cash flows. We cannot predict changes in currency exchange rates, the impact of exchange rate changes, nor the degree to which we will be able to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes. We currently have limited hedging arrangements in place to mitigate some of the impact of lower exchange rates.. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel.. We constantly monitor the dynamics of the economy, the healthcare industry and the markets in which we compete, and we continue to assess the key personnel that we believe are essential to our long-term success. Over the last four years, we have effected a leadership change and have made significant organizational and strategic changes in connection therewith.  If we fail to effectively manage our ongoing organizational and strategic changes, our financial condition, results of operations, and reputation, as well as our ability to successfully attract, motivate and retain key employees, could be harmed.  Additionally, facilitating seamless leadership transitions for key positions is a critical factor in sustaining the success of an organization.  If our succession planning efforts are not effective, it could adversely impact our business.. 20. Table of Contents. Moreover, in our industry, there is substantial competition for key personnel in the regions in which we operate and we may face increased competition for such employees. The loss of any of our key personnel, particularly management or key research and development personnel, could harm our business and prospects and could impede the achievement of our research and development, operational or strategic objectives. Our success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain other qualified managerial and technical personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel necessary for the development of our business.. If we or our contract manufacturers are unable to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities, on a timely basis, at acceptable costs and in compliance with regulatory and quality requirements, our ability to sell our products and our business will be harmed.. The manufacture of many of our products is highly complex and requires precise high quality manufacturing that is difficult to achieve. We have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties in manufacturing our products on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities. These difficulties have primarily related to delays and difficulties associated with ramping up production of newly introduced products and may result in increased delivery lead-times and increased costs of manufacturing these products. In addition, production of these newer products may require the development of new manufacturing technologies and expertise, which we may be unable to develop. Our failure, including the failure of our contract manufacturers, to achieve and maintain the required high manufacturing standards could result in further delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns, product recalls or withdrawals, increased warranty costs or other problems that could harm our business and prospects.. In determining the required quantities of our products and the manufacturing schedule, we must make significant judgments and estimates based on historical experience, inventory levels, current market trends and other related factors. Because of the inherent nature of estimates, there could be significant differences between our estimates and the actual amounts of products we and our distributors require, which could harm our business and results of operations.. Medical diagnostic and surgical device products are regulated by the FDA as well as other foreign medical regulatory bodies. In some cases, such as in the U.S. and the EU, certain products may also require individual lot release testing. Maintaining compliance with multiple regulators, and multiple centers within the FDA, adds complexity and cost to our manufacturing processes. In addition, our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the FDA and other regulatory agencies, and these facilities are subject to the FDA's Quality System Regulation and Good Manufacturing Practices. We or our contractors may fail to satisfy these regulatory requirements in the future, and any failure to do so may prevent us from selling our products.. If, despite internal testing and testing by customers, any of our products contain errors or defects or fail to meet applicable specifications, then we may be required to enhance or improve those products or technologies. We may not be able to do so on a timely basis, if at all, and may only be able to do so at considerable expense.. Additionally, the FDA and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of medical products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. A government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. Any recall could divert managerial and financial resources, be difficult and costly to correct, result in the suspension of sales of certain of our products, harm our reputation and the reputation of our products and adversely affect our business and prospects.. Our inability to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, any necessary U.S. or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our newly developed products and treatments or product enhancements could harm our business and prospects.. Our products and treatments are subject to a high level of regulatory oversight. Our inability to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, any necessary U.S. or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our newly developed products or product enhancements could harm our business and prospects. The process of obtaining clearances and approvals can be costly and time-consuming. In addition, there is a risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, may be withdrawn or modified.. Most medical devices cannot be marketed in the U.S. without 510(k) clearance or premarket approval by the FDA. Any modifications to a device that has received a pre-market approval that affect the safety or effectiveness of the device require a pre-market approval supplement or possibly a separate pre-market approval, either of which is likely to be time-consuming, expensive and uncertain to obtain. If the FDA requires us to seek one or more pre-market approval supplements or new pre-market approvals for any modification to a previously approved device, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified device until we obtain approval, and we may be subject to significant criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, but not limited to, regulatory fines or penalties.. Medical devices sold in the U.S. must also be manufactured in compliance with FDA Good Manufacturing Practices, which regulate the design, manufacture, packing, storage and installation of medical devices. Moreover, medical devices are. 21. Table of Contents. required to comply with FDA regulations relating to investigational research and labeling. States may also regulate the manufacture, sale and use of medical devices, particularly those that employ x-ray technology. Our products are also subject to approval and regulation by foreign regulatory and safety agencies.. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, clearances or approvals for future products could delay or preclude realization of product revenues from new products or result in substantial additional costs which could decrease our profitability. In 2012, the European Commission proposed two new regulations, one each for medical devices and In-vitro Diagnostics (IVD). The adoption of these regulations may impact our international operations through a broadened scope of medical device and IVD oversight and/or regulatory reach. Compliance with the new European Commission regulations, if and when adopted, may impose additional administrative and financial burdens on us.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information, expose us to liability and harm our reputation and business.. In the ordinary course of our business we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal information, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees in our data centers and on our networks. The secure maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. Computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our computer systems and, if successful, misappropriate personal or confidential business information. In addition, an associate, contractor, or other third-party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information, and may purposefully or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. Any such compromise of our data security and access, public disclosure, or loss of personal or confidential business information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and customers' willingness to transact business with us, and subject us to additional costs and liabilities any of which could adversely affect our business. Although we have experienced occasional, actual or attempted breaches of our computer systems, to date none of these breaches has had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation.. The continuing worldwide macroeconomic uncertainty may adversely affect our business and prospects.. Market acceptance of our medical products in the U.S. and other countries is dependent upon the medical equipment purchasing and procurement practices of our customers, patient demand for our products and procedures, the reimbursement of patients' medical expenses by government healthcare programs and third-party payors and, for our Medical Aesthetics business, individual economic health. The continuing uncertainty surrounding world financial markets and continuing weak worldwide macroeconomic conditions have caused and may continue to cause the purchasers of medical equipment to decrease their medical equipment purchasing and procurement activities. Economic uncertainty as well as increasing health insurance premiums and co-payments may continue to result in cost-conscious consumers making fewer elective trips to their physicians and specialists, which in turn would adversely affect demand for our products and procedures. Job losses or slow improvement in the unemployment rate in the U.S. may result in a smaller percentage of our patients being covered by an employer health group and a larger percentage being covered by lower paying Medicare and Medicaid programs. Furthermore, governments and other third-party payors around the world facing tightening budgets could move to further reduce the reimbursement rates or the scope of coverage offered, which could adversely affect sales of our products.. Additionally, the aesthetic laser and energy-based treatment system industry in which our Medical Aesthetics business operates is particularly vulnerable to economic trends. Most procedures performed using our aesthetic treatment systems are elective procedures that are not reimbursable through government or private health insurance. The cost of these elective procedures must be borne by the patient. As a result, the decision to undergo a procedure that uses our products may be influenced by the cost.  Consumer demand, and therefore our Medical Aesthetics business, is sensitive to a number of factors that affect consumer spending, including political and macroeconomic conditions, health of credit markets, disposable consumer income levels, consumer debt levels, interest rates, consumer confidence and other factors.  If there is not sufficient consumer demand for the procedures performed with our Medical Aesthetics products, practitioner demand for our Medical Aesthetics products would decline, and our Medical Aesthetics business would suffer.. In the event of deterioration of general business conditions or the availability of credit, the financial strength and stability of our Medical Aesthetics customers and potential customers may deteriorate over time, which may cause them to cancel or delay their purchase of our products. In addition, we may be subject to increased risk of non-payment of our accounts receivables for our Medical Aesthetics business. We may also be adversely affected by bankruptcies or other business failures of our customers and potential customers. A significant delay in the collection of funds or a reduction of funds collected may impact our liquidity or result in bad debts. If the current adverse macroeconomic conditions continue, our business and prospects may be negatively impacted.. 22. Table of Contents. The failure of third-party payors to provide appropriate levels of coverage and reimbursement for the use of our diagnostics, breast and skeletal health and surgical products and treatments facilitated by our products could harm our business and prospects.. Sales and market acceptance of our diagnostics, breast and skeletal health and surgical products and the treatments facilitated by these products is dependent upon the coverage decisions and reimbursement policies established by government healthcare programs and private health insurers. The ability of customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for the products and services they use from private and governmental third-party payors is critical to the success of medical technology companies because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies by country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new products and technologies. Even if we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless appropriate reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors. Further legislative or administrative reforms to the reimbursement systems in the U.S. and other countries in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our diagnostics, breast and skeletal health and surgical products or denies coverage for those procedures facilitated by our products, including price regulation, competitive bidding and tendering, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Healthcare policy changes, including healthcare reform legislation and the uncertainty surrounding the implementation of any such legislation, could harm our business and prospects.. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, \"the Healthcare Reform Act\") was enacted into law in the U.S. in March 2010. As a U.S. headquartered company with significant sales in the U.S., the medical device tax included in this law has materially affected us. The law imposed on medical device manufacturers a 2.3 percent excise tax on U.S. sales of Class I, II and III medical devices beginning in January 2013. As such, this excise tax applied to the majority, if not all of our products sold in the U.S. Effective January 1, 2016, the implementation of the medical device tax was suspended for calendar years 2016 and 2017. The status of the tax for sales after December 31, 2017 will be reinstated unless there is legislative efforts to temporarily suspend or permanently repeal.. The law also includes regulatory mandates and other measures designed to constrain medical costs, as well as stringent reporting requirements of financial relationships between device manufacturers and physicians and teaching hospitals. Specifically, under one provision of the law, which is commonly referred to as the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, we are required to collect data on and annually report to CMS certain payments or other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and annually report certain ownership and investment interests held by physicians or their immediate family members.. Compliance with this healthcare legislation, including with these reporting requirements and the excise tax, imposed significant additional administrative and financial burdens on us. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level in the U.S. The Healthcare Reform Act and these proposals could reduce medical procedure volumes and impact the demand for our products or the prices at which we sell our products. These reforms include a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models. In addition, while the excise tax was in effect, it increased our costs of doing business. The impact of this healthcare reform legislation, and practices including price regulation, competitive pricing, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments, and managed care arrangements could harm our business and prospects, results of operations and/or financial condition. Healthcare reform proposals and medical cost containment measures in the U.S. and in many foreign countries could:. • limit the use of our products and treatments;. • reduce reimbursement available for such use;. • further tax the sale or use of our products;. • adversely affect the use of new therapies for which our products may be targeted; and. • further increase the administrative and financial burden of compliance.. These reforms, cost containment measures and new taxes, including the uncertainty in the medical community regarding their nature and effect, could also have an adverse effect on our customers' purchasing decisions regarding our products and treatments and could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We cannot predict the specific healthcare programs and regulations that will be ultimately implemented by regional and national governments globally. However, any changes that lower reimbursements for our products and/or procedures using our products, reduce medical procedure volumes or increase cost containment pressures on us or others in the healthcare sector could. 23. Table of Contents. adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, the draft Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule (CLFS) published by CMS under the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (PAMA), may impact our diagnostic laboratory customers.  This impact could in turn, over time, put pressure on the prices at which we sell our diagnostic assays and instruments to these customers.. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and changes in healthcare-related laws and regulations could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. We operate in a highly regulated industry. As a result, governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition, including:. • new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to healthcare availability, method of delivery and payment for healthcare products and services;. • changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and treatments and result in lost market opportunity;. • changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products and treatments to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products or treatments, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products and treatments; and. • new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices.. We anticipate that governmental authorities will continue to scrutinize the healthcare industry closely and that additional regulation by governmental authorities may cause increased compliance costs, exposure to litigation and other adverse effects to our operations.. Guidelines, recommendations and studies published by various organizations may reduce the use of our products.. Professional societies, government agencies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in healthcare issues may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies to the healthcare and patient communities. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, cost-effectiveness, and use of related therapies. Organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products and those of our competitors. Recommendations, guidelines or studies that are followed by healthcare providers and insurers could result in decreased use of our products. For example, in November 2012, the American Congress of Obstetrics and Gynecologists, known as the ACOG, released updates in which they have recommended less frequent cervical cancer screening similar to guidelines released in March 2012 by the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force, or the USPSTF, and the American Cancer Society. We believe that these recommendations and guidelines may have contributed to increased screening intervals for cervical cancer, which we believe has and may continue to adversely affect our ThinPrep revenues.  Further, in September 2017, the USPSTF released draft recommendations that excluded HPV and Pap co-testing for women, which could also adversely affect our HPV test and ThinPrep revenues if these guidelines were to become final. In addition, on October 20, 2015, the American Cancer Society issued new guidelines recommending that women start annual mammograms at age 45 instead of 40 and have a mammogram every two years instead of annually. This recommendation could result in a decrease in purchases of our mammography systems.. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to increased demands for price concessions or the exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our significant market segments, which could harm our business and prospects.. The cost of healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade and numerous initiatives and reforms by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry, including with respect to hospitals and clinical laboratories. This consolidation has resulted in greater pricing pressures, decreased average selling prices, and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our customers. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements, and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers and competitors, which may reduce competition and continue to exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. In particular, we are dependent upon a relatively small number of large clinical laboratory customers in the U.S. for a significant portion of our sales of diagnostics products. Due in part to a trend toward consolidation of clinical laboratories in recent years and the relative size of the largest U.S. laboratories, it is likely that a significant portion of these sales will continue to be concentrated among a relatively small number of large clinical laboratories.. Interruptions, delays, shutdowns or damage at our manufacturing facilities could harm our business.. 24. Table of Contents. We and our contract manufacturers manufacture our products at a limited number of different facilities located in the United States and throughout the world. In most cases, the manufacturing of each of our products is concentrated in one or a few locations. An interruption in manufacturing capabilities at any of these facilities, as a result of equipment failure or other reasons, could reduce, delay or prevent the production of our products. Our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or weather conditions. Manufacturing facilities may experience plant shutdowns, strikes or other labor disruptions, or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures, loss of power, gray outs, delays in deliveries or extensive damage, which could harm our business and prospects. Some of our manufacturing operations are located outside the U.S., including in Costa Rica and the United Kingdom. Those manufacturing operations are also subject to additional challenges and risks associated with international operations described herein.. Our Diagnostics segment depends on a small number of customers for a significant portion of its product sales, the loss of any of these customers or any cancellation or delay of a large purchase by any of these customers could significantly reduce revenues in our Diagnostics segment.. Although we do not currently have any customers that represent more than 10% of our consolidated revenues, a material portion of product sales in our Diagnostics segment comes from a limited number of customers, one of whom accounted for more than 12.8% of our Diagnostics segment revenue in fiscal 2017. Blood screening product sales to Grifols accounted for 11.5% of our Diagnostics segment product revenue in fiscal 2017. We anticipate that our operating results in our Diagnostics segment will continue to depend, to a significant extent, upon revenues from a small number of customers.  Contracts with two of our key Diagnostics customers are up for renewal in the next two years. The loss of any of these key customers, or a significant reduction in sales volume or pricing to these customers, could significantly reduce our Diagnostics segment revenues or profitability.. If we cannot maintain our current corporate collaborations and enter into new corporate collaborations, our product development could be delayed and our revenue could be adversely impacted.. With respect to certain of our products we have relied, to a significant extent, on corporate collaborators for funding development and marketing as well as distribution. We also expect to rely on our corporate collaborators for the commercialization of certain products. If any of our corporate collaborators were to breach or terminate its agreement with us or otherwise fail to conduct its collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner, the development or commercialization and subsequent marketing of the products contemplated by the collaboration could be delayed or terminated. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources our corporate collaborators devote to our programs or potential products.. The continuation of any of these collaboration agreements depends upon their periodic renewal by us and our collaborators. If any of our current collaboration agreements are terminated, or if we are unable to renew those collaborations on acceptable terms, we may be required to devote additional internal resources to product development or marketing or to terminate some development programs or seek alternative corporate collaborations. In addition, in the event of a dispute under our current or any future collaboration agreements, a court or arbitrator may not rule in our favor and our rights or obligations under an agreement subject to a dispute may be adversely affected, which may have an adverse effect on our business or operating results. Any corporate collaboration may divert management time and resources. In some instances we have entered into corporate collaborations, including alliances and joint ventures, with certain partners or companies that could make it more difficult for us to enter into advantageous business transactions or relationships with others.. Failing to manage a collaboration effectively, failing to comply with the obligations associated with a collaboration, or entering into a disadvantageous corporate collaboration, could harm our business and prospects.. Some of our activities may subject us to risks under federal and state laws prohibiting \"kickbacks\" and false or fraudulent claims.. We are subject to the provisions of a federal law commonly known as the anti-kickback statute, and several similar state laws, which prohibit payments intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. While the federal law applies only to products or services for which payment may be made by a federal healthcare program, state laws often apply regardless of whether federal funds may be involved. These laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs that may be used with hospitals, physicians, laboratories and other potential purchasers of medical devices. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Anti-kickback and false claims laws prescribe civil and criminal penalties (including fines) for noncompliance that can be substantial.. Similarly, our international operations are subject to the provisions of the FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing, or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of influencing. 25. Table of Contents. any act or decision of such official in his or her official capacity, inducing the official to do any act in violation of his or her lawful duty, or to secure any improper advantage in obtaining or retaining business. In many countries, the healthcare professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign official for purposes of the FCPA. In addition to the FCPA, our international operations are also subject to various other international anti-bribery laws such as the UK Anti-Bribery Act. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. However, despite meaningful measures that we undertake to facilitate lawful conduct, which include training and compliance programs and internal policies and procedures, we may not always prevent unauthorized, reckless or criminal acts by our employees or agents, or employees or agents of businesses or operations we may acquire. It is possible that our practices might be challenged under federal or state anti-kickback, FCPA or similar laws due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of extensive guidance regarding compliance. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also could be subject to adverse publicity, severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes and other remedial actions. Moreover, our failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, and withdrawal of an approved product from the market.. The markets for our newly developed products and treatments and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products and treatments may not develop as expected.. The successful commercialization of our newly developed products and treatments and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products and treatments are subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including:. • uncertainty of the development of a market for such product or treatment;. • trends relating to, or the introduction or existence of, competing products, technologies or alternative treatments or therapies that may be more effective, safer or easier to use than our products, technologies, treatments or therapies;. • the perception of our products or treatments as compared to other products and treatments;. • recommendation and support for the use of our products or treatments by influential customers, such as hospitals, radiological practices, breast surgeons and radiation oncologists and treatment centers;. • the availability and extent of data demonstrating the clinical efficacy of our products or treatments;. • competition, including the presence of competing products sold by companies with longer operating histories, more recognizable names and more established distribution networks; and. • other technological developments.. Often, the development of a significant market for a product or treatment will depend upon the establishment of a reimbursement code or an advantageous reimbursement level for use of the product or treatment. Moreover, even if addressed, such reimbursement codes or levels frequently are not established until after a product or treatment is developed and commercially introduced, which can delay the successful commercialization of a product or treatment.. If we are unable to successfully commercialize and create a significant market for our newly developed products and treatments and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products and treatments our business and prospects could be harmed.. Our business is dependent on technologies we license, and if we fail to maintain these licenses or license new technologies and rights to particular nucleic acid sequences for targeted diseases in the future, we may be limited in our ability to develop new products.. Our business is dependent on licenses from third parties for some of our key technologies. For example, our patented TMA technology is based on technology we licensed from Stanford University. We anticipate that we will enter into new licensing arrangements in the ordinary course of business to expand our product portfolio and access new technologies to enhance our products and develop new products. Many of these licenses will provide us with exclusive rights to the subject technology or disease marker. If our license with respect to any of these technologies or markers is terminated for any reason, we may not be able to sell products that incorporate the technology. Similarly, we may lose competitive advantages if we fail to maintain exclusivity under an exclusive license.. 26. Table of Contents. Additionally, the U.S. Supreme Court has issued several decisions, the full impact of which is not yet known. For example, in March 2012 in Mayo Collaborative Services, DBA Mayo Medical Laboratories, et al. v. Prometheus Laboratories, Inc., the Court held that several claims drawn to measuring drug metabolite levels from patient samples and correlating them to drug doses were not patentable subject matter. The decision appears to impact diagnostics patents that merely apply a law of nature via a series of routine steps and has created uncertainty around the patentability of certain biomarker-related method claims. Additionally, in June 2013 in Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics, Inc., the Court held that claims to isolated genomic DNA are not patentable, but claims to complementary DNA, or cDNA, molecules were held to be valid. The effect of the decision on patents for other isolated natural products is uncertain and we may lose competitive advantages should the subject matter of our patents or patents we exclusively license be deemed non-patentable subject matter and we therefore fail to maintain exclusivity to such subject matter as a result.. Our ability to develop additional diagnostic tests for diseases may depend on the ability of third parties to discover particular sequences or markers and correlate them with disease, as well as the rate at which such discoveries are made. Our ability to design products that target these diseases may depend on our ability to obtain the necessary rights from the third parties that make any of these discoveries. In addition, there are a finite number of diseases and conditions for which our NAT diagnostic assays may be economically viable. If we are unable to access new technologies or the rights to particular sequences or markers necessary for additional diagnostic products on commercially reasonable terms, we may be limited in our ability to develop new diagnostic products.. Our products and manufacturing processes will require access to technologies and materials that may be subject to patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may need to obtain additional intellectual property rights in order to commercialize our products. We may be unable to obtain such rights on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to grow our business.. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology.. We have relied primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyrights, trademarks and confidentiality procedures to protect our products and technology. Despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties may infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate our intellectual property, or copy or reverse engineer portions of our technology. The pursuit and assertion of a patent right, particularly in areas like nucleic acid diagnostics and biotechnology, involve complex determinations and, therefore, are characterized by substantial uncertainty. We do not know if current or future patent applications will be issued with the full scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents that do issue will be challenged or invalidated. The patents that we own or license could also be subjected to invalidation proceedings or similar disputes, and an unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to the technology from the prevailing party. In addition, the laws governing patentability and the scope of patent coverage continue to evolve, particularly in the field of biotechnology. As a result, patents might not issue from certain of our patent applications or from applications licensed to us.. We have obtained or applied for corresponding patents and patent applications in several foreign countries for some of our U.S. patents and patent applications. There is a risk that these patent applications will not be granted or that the patent or patent application will not provide significant protection for our products and technology. Moreover, there is a risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as intellectual property laws in the U.S.. The rights provided by a patent are finite in time. Over the coming years, certain patents relating to current products will expire in the U.S. and abroad thus allowing third parties to utilize certain of our technologies.. Our competitors may independently develop similar or superior technology that our patents do not cover. In addition, because patent applications in the U.S. are not generally publicly disclosed until eighteen months after the application is filed, applications may have been filed by third parties that relate to our technology. Even if our proprietary information is protected by patents or otherwise, the initiation of actions to protect our proprietary information could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, and the outcome of such litigation is often uncertain. As a result of these uncertainties, we could also elect to forego such litigation or settle such litigation without fully enforcing our proprietary rights. In the absence of significant patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, processes or technology.. Additionally, the effect of the Prometheus Laboratories and Myriad Genetics decisions on patents for other isolated natural products is uncertain and these decisions could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. 27. Table of Contents. Finally, within our Medical Aesthetics business, we jointly own certain patents and patent applications with third parties. In the absence of an agreement with each co-owner of jointly owned patent rights, we will be subject to default rules pertaining to joint ownership. Some countries require the consent of all joint owners to exploit, license or assign jointly owned patents, and if we are unable to obtain that consent from the joint owners, we may be unable to exploit the invention or to license or assign our rights under these patents and patent applications in those countries.. Our business could be harmed if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others.. There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device, diagnostic products and related industries. We are and have been involved in patent litigation, and may in the future be subject to further claims of infringement of intellectual property rights possessed by third parties.. In connection with claims of patent infringement, we may seek to enter into settlement and/or licensing arrangements. There is a risk in these situations that no license will be available or that a license will not be available on reasonable terms. Alternatively, we may decide to litigate such claims or to design around the patented technology. These actions could be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. As a result, any infringement claims by third parties or claims for indemnification by customers resulting from infringement claims, whether or not proven to be true, may harm our business and prospects.. We utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, the loss of which could harm our revenues in the territory serviced by these distributors.. We rely on strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products. If any of our strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced or if our strategic partners fail to perform their contractual obligations, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. If any of our distribution or marketing agreements are terminated or if we elect to distribute new products directly, we will have to invest in additional sales and marketing resources, including additional field sales personnel, which would significantly increase future selling, general and administrative expenses. We may not be able to enter into new distribution or marketing agreements on satisfactory terms, or at all. If we fail to enter into acceptable distribution or marketing agreements or fail to successfully market our products, our product sales will decrease. In addition, we cannot be sure that our distributors will agree with our interpretation of the terms of the agreements or that we will receive payments under the agreements. The third-party distributors with which we do not have written distributor agreements may also disagree with the terms of our relationship.  We may also be exposed to risks as a result of transitioning a territory from a distributor sales model to a direct sales model, such as difficulties maintaining relationships with specific customers, hiring appropriately trained personnel or ensuring compliance with local product registration requirements, any of which could result in lower revenues than previously received from the distributor in that territory. We do not control our distributors, and these parties may not be successful in marketing our products. These parties may fail to commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products to the level of our expectations. Currently, we have written distributor agreements in place with most of our third-party distributors.. We have only one third-party manufacturer for certain of our product lines and rely on one or a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials, components or subassemblies for our products.   This reliance exposes us to increased risks associated with production delays, delivery schedules, manufacturing capability, quality control, quality assurance and costs.. Certain of our raw materials, components or subassemblies are purchased from a single-source due to cost, quality, expertise or other considerations.  Obtaining alternative sources of supply of these raw materials, components or subassemblies could involve significant delays and other costs and regulatory challenges, and may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all. The failure of a supplier to provide sufficient quantities, acceptable quality and timely delivery of goods at an acceptable price, or an interruption in the delivery of goods from such a supplier could harm our business and prospects. Any disruption of supplies of goods could delay or reduce shipments, which could result in lost or deferred sales.. For example, we have sole-source third-party manufacturers for each of our molecular diagnostics instruments and for our Skeletal Health products. KMC Systems, Inc., or KMC Systems, is the only manufacturer of the Tigris instrument, Stratec Biomedical AG, or Stratec, is the only manufacturer of the Panther instrument and Flextronics International LTD, or Flextronics, is the only manufacturer of our Skeletal Health finished goods products. We have no firm long-term volume commitments with either KMC Systems or Stratec.  If KMC Systems, Stratec, Flextronics or any of our other third-party manufacturers experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in its development or manufacturing operations or becomes insolvent or otherwise fails to supply us with goods in sufficient quantities, then instrument shipments to our customers could be delayed, which would decrease our revenues and harm our competitive position and reputation. Further, because we place orders with our manufacturers based on forecasts of expected demand for our products, if we inaccurately forecast demand we may be unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity or adequate quantities of components to meet our customers' delivery requirements.. 28. Table of Contents. Similarly, we rely on one or a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials for our products and some of these suppliers are competitors. For example, our current supplier of certain key raw materials for certain of our amplified NAT diagnostic assays, pursuant to a fixed-price contract, is Roche Diagnostics Corporation and we have a supply and purchase agreement for oligonucleotides for HPV with Roche Molecular Systems, Inc. The parent company of both Roche Diagnostics Corporation and Roche Molecular Systems, Inc. is F. Hoffmann-LaRoche Ltd, a direct competitor of our Diagnostics business. We also have a supply agreement with GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences Corp., an affiliate of GE, for membranes used in connection with our ThinPrep product line. GE is a direct competitor with our Breast Health and Skeletal Health businesses.  In our Medical Aesthetics business, we use Alexandrite rods in the lasers for our Elite and PicoSure systems. We depend exclusively on Northrop Grumman SYNOPTICS to supply the Alexandrite rods to us, and we are aware of no alternative supplier of Alexandrite rods meeting our quality standards. We offer our SmartCool cooling systems for use with our laser aesthetic treatment systems, and we depend exclusively on Zimmer Elektromedizin GmbH to supply SmartCool systems to us. We use diode laser bars from Coherent, Inc. to manufacture our Vectus diode laser, and we use diode laser modules from Dilas Diodenlaser GmbH to manufacture our SculpSure laser system. Although alternative suppliers exist for the diode laser bars, they could take months to qualify and implement. We also depend on El.En. for the SLT II laser system that we integrate with our own proprietary software and delivery systems into our SmartLipo Triplex, Cellulaze and PrecisionTx systems.  El.En. markets, sells, promotes and licenses other products that compete with our products.. We may in the future need to find new contract manufacturers or suppliers to replace existing manufacturers or suppliers, increase our volumes or reduce our costs. We may not be able to find contract manufacturers or suppliers that meet our needs, and even if we do the process is expensive and time consuming. If we are required or elect to change contract manufacturers or suppliers, we may lose revenues and our customer relationships may suffer.. We face intense competition from other companies and may not be able to compete successfully.. A number of companies have developed, or are expected to develop, products that compete or will compete with our products. In addition, some companies may have significant competitive advantages over us, which may make them more attractive to hospitals, radiology clients, group purchasing organizations, laboratories, and physicians, including:. • greater brand recognition;. • larger or more established distribution networks and customer bases;. • a broader product portfolio, resulting in the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage;. • higher levels of automation and greater installed bases of such equipment;. • more extensive research, development, sales, marketing, and manufacturing capabilities and greater financial resources; and. • greater technical resources positioning them to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry.. The markets in which we sell our products are intensely competitive, subject to rapid technological change and may be significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants, and these competitive pressures may reduce our gross margins. Other companies may develop products that are superior to and/or less expensive than our products. Improvements in existing competitive products or the introduction of new competitive products may reduce our ability to compete for sales, particularly if those competitive products demonstrate better safety or effectiveness, clinical results, ease of use or lower costs.. The current environment of managed care, economically-motivated buyers, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates, together with current global economic conditions and healthcare reform measures, may put additional competitive pressure on us, including on our average selling prices, overall procedure rates and market sizes.. If we are unable to compete effectively against existing and future competitors and existing and future alternative products and treatments, our business and prospects could be harmed.. Our results of operations are subject to significant quarterly variation.. Our results of operations have been and may continue to be subject to significant quarterly variation. Our results for a particular quarter may also vary due to a number of factors, including:. • the overall state of healthcare and cost containment efforts;. • the timing and level of reimbursement for our products domestically and internationally;. 29. Table of Contents. • the development status and demand for our products;. • the development status and demand for therapies to treat the health concerns addressed by our products and treatments;. • economic conditions in our markets;. • foreign exchange rates;. • the timing of orders;. • the timing of expenditures in anticipation of future sales;. • the mix of products we sell and markets we serve;. • regulatory approval of products;. • the introduction of new products and product enhancements by us or our competitors;. • pricing and other competitive conditions;. • unanticipated expenses;. • complex revenue recognition rules pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which we refer to as U.S. GAAP;. • asset impairments;. • contingent consideration charges;. • restructuring and consolidation charges;. • debt refinancing charges and expenses; and. • seasonality of sales of certain of our products.. Customers may also cancel or reschedule shipments. Production difficulties could also delay shipments. Any of these factors also could harm our business and prospects.. Failure to comply with laws relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards related to the transmission of electronic health data, may require us to make significant changes to our products, or incur penalties or other liabilities.. State, federal and foreign laws, such as the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, regulate the confidentiality of sensitive personal information and the circumstances under which such information may be released. These measures may govern the disclosure and use of personal and patient medical record information and may require users of such information to implement specified security measures, and to notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. Evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products in a timely manner to reflect these legal requirements, either of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Other health information standards, such as regulations under HIPAA, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specified electronic transactions, for example transactions involving submission of claims to third party payors. These standards also continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. In addition, under the federal Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH Act, some of our businesses that were previously only indirectly subject to federal HIPAA privacy and security rules became directly subject to such rules because the businesses may be deemed to serve as \"business associates\" to certain of our customers. In January 2013, the Office for Civil Rights of the Department of Health and Human Services released a final rule implementing the HITECH Act and making certain other changes to HIPAA privacy and security requirements. Compliance with the rule increases the requirements applicable to some of our businesses. Failure to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive personal information in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements, or to abide by electronic health data transmission standards, could expose us to breach of contract claims, fines and penalties, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation.. We are subject to the risk of product liability claims relating to our products.. Our business involves the risk of product liability and other claims inherent to the medical device business. If even one of our products is found to have caused or contributed to injuries or deaths, we could be held liable for substantial damages. We maintain product liability insurance subject to deductibles and exclusions. There is a risk that the insurance coverage will not be sufficient to protect us from product and other liability claims, or that product liability insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. An under-insured or uninsured claim could harm our business and prospects. In addition, claims could adversely affect the reputation of the related product, which could damage that product's competitive position in the market.. 30. Table of Contents. The sale and use of our diagnostic products could also lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that one of our products contained a design or manufacturing defect that resulted in inaccurate test results or the failure to detect a disorder for which it was being used to screen, or caused injuries to a patient. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in an increase in our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure additional coverage in the future. Also, even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could be time consuming and expensive to defend, which could result in a diversion of management's attention from our business and could adversely affect the perceived safety and efficacy of our products, and could harm our business and prospects.. Because we do not require training for users of our non-invasive Medical Aesthetics products, and we sell these products to non-physicians, there exists an increased potential for misuse of these products, which could harm our reputation and our business.. Federal regulations allow us to sell our Medical Aesthetics products to or on the order of practitioners licensed by law to use or order the use of a prescription device. The definition of \"licensed practitioners\" varies from state to state. As a result, our products may be purchased or operated by physicians with varying levels of training and, in many states, by non-physicians, including nurse practitioners, chiropractors and technicians. Outside the U.S., many jurisdictions do not require specific qualifications or training for purchasers or operators of our products. We do not supervise the procedures performed with our products, nor can we require that direct medical supervision occur. We and our distributors offer product training sessions, but neither we nor our distributors require purchasers or operators of our non-invasive products to attend training sessions. The lack of required training and the purchase and use of our non-invasive products by non-physicians may result in product misuse and adverse treatment outcomes, which could harm our reputation and expose us to costly product liability litigation.. Regulations related to \"conflict minerals\" may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products.. In August 2012, the SEC adopted a rule requiring disclosures of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. The conflict minerals rule requires companies annually to diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and other specified countries. The rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In addition, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so.. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including related to our use and recycling of hazardous materials and the composition of our products.. Our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as toxic and carcinogenic chemicals and various radioactive compounds, and the risk of contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. In such event, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability could be extensive. From time to time new regulations are enacted, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will be implemented and enforced. We continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. These regulations include, for example, regulations enacted in the European Union such as the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical Substances, or REACH, which requires the registration of and regulates use of certain chemicals, the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or RoHS, which regulates the use of certain hazardous substances in certain products we manufacture, and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or WEEE, which requires the collection, reuse and recycling of waste from certain products we manufacture. These and similar legislation that has been or is in the process of being enacted in Japan, China and various states of the U.S. may require us to re-design our products to ensure compliance with the applicable standards, for example by requiring the use of different types of materials. These redesigns or the use of alternative materials may detrimentally impact the performance of our products, add greater testing lead-times for product introductions, result in additional costs or have other similar effects. We are also subject to other substantial regulation relating to environmental, health and safety matters, including occupational health and safety, environmental protection, hazardous substance control, and waste management and disposal. The failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to, among other things, fines and criminal liability. We may also be required to incur significant costs to comply with these and future regulations, which may result in a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operation.. 31. Table of Contents. We may incur losses in excess of our insurance coverage.. Our insurance coverage includes product liability, property, fire, terrorism and business interruption policies. Our insurance coverage contains policy limits, specifications and exclusions. We believe that our insurance coverage is consistent with general practices within our industry. Nonetheless, we may incur losses of a type for which we are not covered by insurance or which exceed the limits of liability of our insurance policies. In that event, we could experience a significant loss which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition.. Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting may adversely affect our operating results following the acquisition of Cynosure.. We have accounted for the acquisition of Cynosure using the purchase method of accounting, resulting in charges to our earnings that adversely affect our results of operations as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Under the purchase method of accounting, we allocated the total purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed from Cynosure based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date, and recorded the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. For certain intangible assets, recording their fair values as of the acquisition date results in incurring significant additional amortization expense that exceeds the amounts recorded by Cynosure prior to the acquisition. This increased expense is recorded over the estimated useful lives of the underlying assets. In addition, to the extent the carrying value of goodwill, acquired in-process research and development, or other intangible assets post-acquisition were to become impaired, including without limitation as a result of a change in our anticipated future cash flows, terminal value growth rates and discount rates of those assets or related reporting unit, we may be required to record charges relating to the impairment of those assets.. An adverse change in the projected cash flows from our business units or the business climate in which they operate, including the continuation of the current financial and economic uncertainty, could require us to record an impairment charge, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results.. At least annually, we review the carrying value of our goodwill, and for other long-lived assets when indicators of impairment are present, to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment of the value of these assets. Conditions that could indicate impairment and necessitate an evaluation of these assets include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in the business climate or the legal or regulatory environment within which we operate. In addition, the deterioration of a company's market capitalization significantly below its net book value is an indicator of impairment. We assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level and in evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill, we make assumptions regarding the amount and timing of future cash flows, terminal value growth rates and appropriate discount rates.. Based on performing a quantitative analysis, all of our reporting units passed Step 1 of the annual goodwill impairment test in fiscal 2017. For illustrative purposes, had the fair value of each of the reporting units been lower by 10%, all of the reporting units would still have passed Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test, except our Medical Aesthetics reporting unit. This reporting unit had a fair value as of the measurement date that exceeded its carrying value by 2% with goodwill of $683.5 million. We acquired Cynosure, which is the sole business in Medical Aesthetics, on March 22, 2017. In connection with our annual strategic planning process and annual goodwill impairment test, we have lowered our estimated financial projections for this business as a result of its current operating performance being below expectations, which we primarily attribute to the significant turnover in the U.S. sales force in 2017. In the event, future operating performance is below our forecasted projections, or there are negative changes to long-term growth rates or if discount rates increase, these factors could result in a decline in the fair value of the reporting unit and we may be required to record a goodwill impairment charge.. Although we believe that we use reasonable methodologies for developing assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculations used in our impairment tests, these estimates are uncertain by nature and can vary from actual results. Any significant adverse change regarding the amount and timing of future cash flows, terminal value growth rates and discount rates used in valuing our reporting units could require us to record an impairment charge, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. In addition to the higher risk of impairment for our Medical Aesthetics reporting unit, it is possible that the continuation of the current global financial and economic uncertainty could negatively affect our anticipated future cash flows, or the discount rates used to value the cash flows for each of our reporting units to such an extent that we could be required to perform an interim impairment test during fiscal 2018.. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate and we may incur obligations in tax jurisdictions in excess of amounts that have been accrued.. As a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. In preparing our financial statements, we record the amount of tax payable in each of the countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Our future effective tax rate, however, may be lower or higher than prior years due to numerous factors, including a. 32. Table of Contents. change in our geographic earnings mix, changes in the measurement of our deferred taxes, and recently enacted and future tax law changes in jurisdictions in which we operate. We are also subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions, and tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes.  Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. U.S. lawmakers are evaluating proposals for substantial changes to U.S. fiscal and tax policies, which could include comprehensive tax reform. A variety of tax reform proposals that would significantly impact U.S. taxation of corporations are under consideration, including elimination of the interest deduction, taxation of previously unrepatriated foreign earnings and reductions in the U.S. corporate tax rate. We cannot predict which, if any, of these proposals will be enacted into law or the resulting impact any such enactment will have on our financial results. However, if new legislation were enacted, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Relating to our Indebtedness. We have a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding, which limits our operating flexibility, and could adversely affect our operations and financial results and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations.. As of September 30, 2017, we had approximately $3.36 billion aggregate principal of indebtedness outstanding. We also have other contractual obligations and deferred tax liabilities. This significant level of indebtedness and our other obligations may:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness;. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, strategic transactions and other general corporate purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we participate;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, strategic transactions or other general corporate purposes.. In addition, the terms of our financing obligations contain certain covenants that restrict our ability, and that of our subsidiaries, to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions, including, among other things, limitations on our ability to:. • incur indebtedness or issue certain preferred equity;. • pay dividends, repurchase our common stock, repurchase our convertible notes or make other distributions or restricted payments;. • make certain investments;. • agree to payment restrictions affecting the restricted subsidiaries;. • sell or otherwise transfer or dispose of assets, including equity interests of our subsidiaries;. • enter into transactions with our affiliates;. • create liens;. • designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries;. • consolidate, merge or sell substantially all of our assets; and. • use the proceeds of permitted sales of our assets.. Our amended and restated credit facilities also require us to satisfy certain financial covenants.  Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by general economic conditions, political decisions, industry conditions and other events beyond our control.  Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our amended and restated credit facilities, including financial covenants, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. If there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments or a change of control, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately and may be cross-defaulted to other debt, including our 2022 and 2025 notes. Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default or a change of control, and there is no guarantee that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on such debt. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". 33. Table of Contents. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service all of our indebtedness and other obligations.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures, strategic transactions and expansion efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.. Our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and we can give no assurance that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness as such indebtedness matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. If this occurs, we will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may need to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity or debt financing. These alternative strategies may not be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, will depend on, among other things, our financial condition at the time, restrictions in agreements governing our indebtedness, and other factors, including the condition of the financial markets and the markets in which we compete.. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and additional borrowings, refinancings or proceeds from asset sales are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet all of our obligations.. A significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which may expose us to higher interest payments.. A significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which makes us more vulnerable in the event of adverse economic conditions, increases in prevailing interest rates, or a downturn in our business. As of September 30, 2017, approximately $1.87 billion aggregate principal of our indebtedness, which represented the outstanding principal under our Term Loan and Revolver under our Credit Agreement and amounts outstanding under our Accounts Receivable Securitization Program, was subject to floating interest rates. The term loan and revolver under our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement entered into on October 3, 2017 similarly provide for variable interest rates. We currently have certain hedging arrangements in the form of interest rate cap agreements in place to mitigate the impact of higher interest rates. The interest rate cap agreements hedge $1.0 billion of principal under our Credit Agreement and have a December 2018 termination date.. Risks Relating to our Common Stock. Future issuances of common stock and hedging activities may depress the trading price of our common stock.. Any future issuance of equity securities could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders, including holders who have received shares upon conversion of our convertible notes, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock and our convertible notes. We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions), to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons.. In addition, the price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view our convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may develop involving our common stock. The hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of our convertible notes, or any common stock that note holders receive upon conversion of their notes.. Provisions in our charter, bylaws, and indebtedness may have the effect of discouraging advantageous offers for our business or common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.. Our charter, bylaws, and the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law include provisions that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change of control. Our indebtedness also contains provisions which either accelerate or require us to offer to repurchase the indebtedness at a premium upon a change of control. These provisions could limit the price that our stockholders might receive in the future for shares of our common stock.. Our stock price is volatile.. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. We believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including:. • new, or changes in, recommendations, guidelines or studies that could affect the use of our products;. 34. Table of Contents. • announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, including changes in reimbursement rates or regulatory requirements, proposed and completed acquisitions, or the industry in which we compete;. • published studies and reports relating to the comparative efficacy of products and markets in which we participate;. • quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results and order levels;. • general conditions in the U.S. or worldwide economy;. • our stock repurchase program;. • announcements of technological innovations;. • new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;. • developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation;. • developments in relationships with our customers and suppliers;. • the implementation of healthcare reform legislation and the adoption of additional reform legislation in the future; and. • the success or lack of success of integrating our acquisitions.. In addition, the stock market in general and the markets for shares of \"high-tech\" and life sciences companies, have historically experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may decline."
