[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Company could experience an increase in loan losses, which would reduce the Company's earnings. Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss which could lead to higher loan losses and non-accrual assets.. We originate commercial real estate loans, construction and development loans, consumer loans, loans secured by farmland, multi-family properties and residential mortgage loans primarily within our market area. Commercial real estate, commercial, farmland, and construction and development loans tend to involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers and are most susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. These loans also have historically had greater credit risk than other loans for the following reasons:. <U+0095>   Non-residential Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent on income generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. These loans also involve greater risk because they may not be fully amortizing over a loan period, but may have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower's ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property.. <U+0095>   Commercial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower's business. In addition, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise, be illiquid, or fluctuate in value based on the success of the business.. <U+0095>   Construction and Land Loans. The risk of loss is largely dependent on our initial estimate of whether the property's value at completion equals or exceeds the cost of property construction and the availability of take-out financing. During the construction phrase, a number of factors can result in delays or cost overruns. If our estimate is inaccurate or if actual construction cost exceed estimates, the value of the property securing our loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan, sale of property, or by seizure of collateral.. <U+0095>   Farmland. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower's farming operation. The typical risks to a farming operation include adverse weather conditions, changes to the operation's farm insurance subsides, changes in commodity prices, sudden increases in the cost of farm production, sudden changes in the level of worldwide agricultural production and sudden changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar. In addition, the value of collateral securing the loans often fluctuates with the long-term trends of commodity prices, and may rise and fall significantly and may be illiquid in times of declining values. In the last two years, commodity prices have remained exceptionally low, making it difficult for farmers to make a profit despite achieving near record yields.. <U+0095>   Multi-family Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent on rental income generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. These loans also involve greater risk because they may not be fully amortizing over a loan period, but may have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower's ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. The success of these relationship is dependent on the operator's ability to maintain high levels of occupancy, adequately maintain the property and to collect rents when due.. 11. Rapidly changing interest rate environments could reduce our net interest margin, net interest income, fee income and net income.. Interest and fees on loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and borrowings, are a large part of our net income. Interest rates are the key drivers of the Company's net interest margin and subject to many factors beyond the control of management. As interest rates change, net interest income is affected. Rapid increases in interest rates in the future could result in interest expense increasing faster than interest income because of mismatches in the maturities of the Company's assets and liabilities. Furthermore, substantially higher rates generally reduce loan demand and may result in slower loan growth. Decreases or increases in interest rates could have a negative effect on the spreads between interest rates earned on assets and the rates of interest paid on liabilities, and therefore decrease net interest income. See \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk\".. Liquidity needs could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The Company relies on dividends from the Bank as a primary source of funds. The Bank's primary source of funds is customer deposits and cash flows from investment instruments and loan repayments. While scheduled loan repayments are a relatively stable source, they are subject to the ability of the borrowers to repay their loans. The ability of the borrowers to repay their loans can be adversely affected by a number of factors including:. <U+0095> Changes in the economic conditions.. <U+0095> Adverse trends or events affecting the business environment.. <U+0095> Natural disasters. <U+0095> Various other factors.. Cash flows from the investment portfolio may be affected by changes in interest rates, resulting in excessive levels of cash flow during periods of declining interest rates and lower levels of cash flow during periods of rising interest rates. Deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including both the national market and local competitive interest rate environment, local and national economic conditions, natural disasters and other various events. Accordingly, the Company may be required from time to time to rely on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations. Such sources include the FHLB advances, brokered deposits and federal funds lines of credit from correspondent banks. The Company may also pledge investments as collateral to borrow money from third-parties. In certain cases, the Company may sell investment instruments for sizable losses to meet liquidity needs, hurting net income. While the Company believes that these sources are currently adequate, there can be no assurance they will be sufficient to meet future liquidity needs.. We could face risk from our inability to diversify into high growth markets.. The Company's management considers growth in the nearby Nashville, Tennessee, market critical for our future success. With the potential for our largest current market to experience an economic downturn, market diversification is vital to the future prosperity of our Company.. The financial industry is very competitive.. We face competition in attracting and retaining deposits, making loans, and providing other financial services throughout our market area. Our competitors include other community banks, regional and super-regional banking institutions, national banking institutions, and a wide range of other financial institutions such as credit unions, government-sponsored enterprises, mutual fund companies, insurance companies, brokerage companies, and other non-bank businesses. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources than the Company.. 12. Inability to hire or retain certain key professionals, management and staff could adversely affect our revenues and net income.. We rely on key personnel to manage and operate our business, including major revenue generating functions such as our loan and deposit portfolios. The loss of key staff may adversely affect our ability to maintain and manage these portfolios effectively, which could negatively affect our revenues. In addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting, hiring, and training expenses, resulting in lower net income.. Management's analysis of the necessary funding for the allowance for loan loss account may be incorrect or may suddenly change, resulting in lower earnings.. The funding of the allowance for loan loss account is the most significant estimate made by management in its financial reporting to shareholders and regulators. If negative changes to the performance of the Company's loan portfolio were to occur, management may find it necessary or be required to fund the allowance for loan loss account through additional charges to the Company's provision for loan loss expense. These changes may occur suddenly and be dramatic in nature. These changes are likely to affect the Company's financial performance, capital levels and stock price.. The Company is subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict its activities.. The Company operates in a highly regulated industry and is subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the KDFI and the FDIC. The Company's regulatory compliance is costly and certain types of activities, including the payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged and interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices are subject to regulatory approval and may be limited by regulation. The Company is also subject to regulatory capital rules established by its regulators, which require it and the Bank to maintain adequate capital to support its and the Bank's growth.. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and the Company cannot predict the effects of these changes on its business and profitability. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ National Market that are now and will be applicable to the Company, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. As a result, the Company has experienced, and may continue to experience, greater compliance cost.. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is having a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act are being implemented over time and most are subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. The regulatory changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements, increase our regulatory compliance burden or otherwise adversely affect our business.. Further, we may be required to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act. Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to our investors.. 13. Even though the Company's common stock is currently traded on The NASDAQ National Market, the trading volume in the Company's common stock has been low and the sale of substantial amounts of its common stock in the public market could depress the price of the Company's common stock.. The trading volume of the Company's common stock on The NASDAQ National Market is relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on The NASDAQ National Market or other stock exchanges. Thinly traded stocks, such as the Company's, can be more volatile than stocks trading in an active public market. Because of this, the Company stockholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times they desire.. The Company cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of its common stock in the market, or availability of shares of its common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market prices of the Company's common stock. The Company, therefore, can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of its common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sale in the market, would not cause the price of its common stock to decline or impair the Company's ability to raise capital through sales of its common stock.. The market price of the Company's common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to its performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company's common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices.. The Company conducts virtually all of its business activities in a geographically concentrated area of Middle and West Tennessee and Western Kentucky.. The Company operates eighteen offices located in Middle Tennessee and Western Kentucky. The Company maintains significant business relationships in the markets in which it operates as well as the communities adjoining our offices. Therefore, the Company's success is directly tied to the economic viability of our markets which may not be representative of the country as a whole. While the Company believes that its credit quality has been strong given the current environment, continued economic stress in the market may result in an increase in non-performing loans and charge offs. Given the limited geographic footprint of our Company, the economic conditions in our marketplace may not be reflective of the entire nation.. If the interest rates rapidly increase the yield curve continues to flatten, our net interest margin will decline and net income may be negatively impacted.. Because of significant competitive pressures in our market and the negative impact of these pressures on our deposit and loan pricing, coupled with the fact that a significant portion of our loan portfolio has variable rate pricing that moves in concert with changes to the One Year Constant Maturity Treasury, Prime Rate or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) the interest margin may be negatively impacted. Management anticipates that the current trend of a flatter yield curve, where short-term rates increase more rapidly than long term rates, will continue. A flatter yield curve will put pressure on the Company's net interest margin, possible resulting in lower levels of net income.. 14. Holders of HopFed Capital Trust I have rights that are senior to those of the Company's common shareholders.. The Company has issued trust preferred securities from a special purpose trust and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2017, the Company had outstanding trust preferred securities of $10.3 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by the Company. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures the Company issued to the trusts are senior to our common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on common stock and, in the event of the Company's dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the Company's common shareholders. The Company has the right to defer distributions on its junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on its common stock. If our consolidated financial condition deteriorates or if we do not receive required regulatory approvals, we may be required to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures.. New capital requirements for bank holding companies and depository institutions may negatively impact our results of operations.. In July 2013, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Bank approved the final rule for BASEL III capital requirements for all commercial banks charted in the U.S. Under the final rule, minimum requirements have increased for both the quantity and quality of capital held by banking organizations. Consistent with the international Basel framework, the rule includes a new minimum ratio of CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 4.5% and a CET1 capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets that will apply to all supervised financial institutions. The rule also raises the minimum ratio of tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets from 4.0% percent to 6.0% percent and includes a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0% for all banking organizations. The transition period for implementation of Basel III was January 1, 2015, through December 31, 2018. At December 31, 2016, the Company met all capital requirements set forth by Basel III as required at the final implementation date of December 31, 2018.. The application of more stringent capital requirements for the Corporation and the Bank may, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term and increase the cost of our funding, restructure our business models and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying dividends or buying back shares.. A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third-parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause financial losses.. Our businesses are dependent on their ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets. These transactions, as well as the information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. Due to the breadth of our client base and our geographical reach, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure is challenging, particularly as a result of rapidly evolving legal and regulatory requirements and technological shifts.. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, cyber-attack or other unforeseen catastrophic events, which may adversely affect our ability to process these transactions or provide services.. 15. In addition, our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our and our clients' information across all geographic and product lines, and endeavor to modify these protective measures as circumstances warrant, the nature of the threats continues to evolve. As a result, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyber-attacks and other events that could have an adverse security impact. Despite the defensive measures we take to manage our internal technological and operational infrastructure, these threats may originate externally from third-parties such as foreign governments, organized crime and other hackers, and outsource or infrastructure-support providers and application developers, or may originate internally from within our organization. Given the increasingly high volume of our transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they can be discovered and rectified.. We also face the risk of operational disruption, failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third-parties that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing agents, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. Such parties could also be the source of an attack on, or breach of, our operational systems, data or infrastructure. In addition, as interconnectivity with our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients' systems.. Although we have not experienced a cyber-incident, if one or more of these events occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, as well as our clients' or other third-party operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, substantial costs, regulatory penalties and/or client dissatisfaction or loss. Potential costs of a cyber-incident may include, but would not be limited to, remediation costs, increased protection costs, lost revenue from the unauthorized use of proprietary information or the loss of current and/or future customers, and litigation.. We maintain an insurance policy which we believe provides sufficient coverage at a manageable expense for an institution of our size and scope with similar technological systems. However, we cannot assure that this policy would be sufficient to cover all financial losses, damages, penalties, including lost revenues, should we experience any one or more of our or a third-party's systems failing or experiencing attack.. Since we engage in lending secured by real estate and may be forced to foreclose on the collateral property and own the underlying real estate, we may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, which could result in reduced net income.. Since we originate loans secured by real estate, we may have to foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may, thereafter, own and operate such property, in which case we are exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate.. The amount that we, as mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to general and local economic conditions, changing values of property, interest rates, unpaid real estate taxes, environmental issues, operating expenses involved with managing other real estate owned, and the supply and demand for units held for sale as well as other unforeseen cost and delays.. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and we may have to advance funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss.. 16. We face risks arising from acquisitions of either other financial institutions or branch locations.. From time to time, we may acquire another financial institution. We face a number of risks arising from acquisition transactions, including difficulties in integrating the acquired business into our operations, difficulties in assimilating and retaining employees and intermediaries, difficulties in retaining the existing customers of the acquired entity, unforeseen liabilities that arise in connection with the acquired business and unfavorable market conditions that could negatively impact our growth expectations for the acquired business. These risks may prevent us from realizing the expected benefits from acquisitions and could result in the impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets recognized at the time of acquisition.. We face risk from further reductions in the size and makeup of the U.S. Army staffing at Fort Campbell, Kentucky.. The U.S. Army has provided a revised assessment of future staffing cuts that indicates that Fort Campbell may lose a small portion of its active duty military personnel by 2020. The Fort Campbell military installation in the largest employer in the region and a significant reduction in the staffing of the base would have a major negative affect on the economies of Montgomery County, Tennessee and Christian County, Kentucky. The Company has a significant portion of its loan portfolio invested in the area near Fort Campbell.. Stockholder activists could cause a disruption to our business.. Certain institutional investors have indicated that they disagree with the strategic direction of our Company. Our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected by these activists. Any such disruption may result in, among other things:. <U+0095> Increased operating costs, including increased legal expenses, insurance, administrative expenses and associated costs;. <U+0095> Affect the market price and volatility of our securities;. <U+0095> Uncertainties as to our future direction could result in the loss of potential business opportunities, make it more difficult to attract, retain, or motivate qualified personnel, and strain relationships with investors and customers; and. <U+0095> Activist investors may reduce or delay our ability to effectively execute our current business strategies and the implementation of new strategies.. If the Company were to market itself for sale, the presence and actions of an activist may have a negative impact on the sales price of the Company and may discourage some buyers from making an offer.. Our cash availability at the holding company level may limit the Company's ability to continue to pay a cash dividend to common shareholders and/or repurchase treasury stock.. At December 31, 2017, the Corporation has cash on hand available to pay common dividends and repurchase treasury stock. The Bank may not receive regulatory approval to pay the Corporation a dividend, which would limit the Company's ability to repurchase treasury stock and to continue to pay a cash dividend to common shareholders.. 17. Extreme weather could disrupt our operations and may negatively affect our profitability.. Some of our operations are located in areas that are susceptible to earthquakes, tornados and other forms of extreme weather. Such weather events could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our overall operating results of operations. Further, an extreme weather event in any of our market areas could make it more difficult for borrowers to make timely loan payments may reduce the value of collateral used to secured loans.. Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect our profitability.. Our consolidated results of operations are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve include open market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or federal funds rate on bank borrowing and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, we are unable to predict future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, loan demand or our business and earnings. Market interest rates and the economy market be negatively influenced by terrorist attacks and political actions.. Technological changes in the banking and financial services industries may negatively impact our results of operations and our ability to compete.. The banking and financial services industries are undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The use of technology enhances the level of service to customers and may improve the efficiencies and reduce expenses. To remain competitive, financial institutions must continuously evaluate changing consumer preferences with engage those technologies in a cost effective manner. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to use the correct technology that will allow the Company to meet the current and future needs of our customer base. Failure to do so may leave the Company in a competitive disadvantage and result in a loss of customer business. The Company's competition may have greater resources to invest in technology, which may place the Company at a competitive disadvantage."
