[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks that are highlighted below are not the only ones that we face. Some of our risks relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate principally to our spin-off from TriMas, to the securities markets in general and ownership of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected.. Risks Relating to our Business and our Industry. Our businesses depend upon general economic conditions and we serve some customers in highly cyclical industries; as such, we may be subject to the loss of sales and margins due to an economic downturn or recession.. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on conditions in the markets that we serve in both the U.S. and global economies. Some of the industries that we serve are highly cyclical, such as the agricultural, automotive, construction, horse/livestock, industrial, marine, military, recreational, trailer and utility markets. We may experience a reduction in sales and margins as a result of a downturn in economic conditions or other macroeconomic factors. Lower demand for our products may also negatively affect the capacity utilization of our production facilities, which may further reduce our operating margins.. Many of the markets we serve are highly competitive, which could limit the volume of products that we sell and reduce our operating margins.. Many of our products are sold in competitive markets. We believe that the principal points of competition in our markets are product quality and price, design and engineering capabilities, product development, conformity to customer specifications, reliability and timeliness of delivery, customer service and effectiveness of distribution. Maintaining and improving our competitive position will require continued investment by us in manufacturing, engineering, quality standards, marketing, customer service and support of our distribution networks. We may have insufficient resources in the future to continue to make such investments and, even if we make such investments, we may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position. We also face the risk of lower-cost foreign manufacturers located in China, Southeast Asia, India and other regions competing in the markets for our products, and we may be driven as a consequence of this competition to increase our investment overseas. Making overseas investments can be highly complicated and we may not always realize the advantages we anticipate from any such investments. Competitive pressure may limit the volume of products that we sell and reduce our operating margins.. We may be unable to successfully implement our business strategies. Our ability to realize our business strategies may be limited.. Our businesses operate in relatively mature industries and it may be difficult to successfully pursue our growth strategies and realize material benefits therefrom. Even if we are successful, other risks attendant to our businesses and the economy generally may substantially or entirely eliminate the benefits.. We may not achieve our strategic goals for margin expansion, capital structure improvement and organic growth; our past performance in these areas may not be indicative of future performance.  Failure to achieve our strategic goals may adversely impact our results of operations.. Our strategic platforms for value creation and goals for margin expansion, capital structure improvement and organic growth are subject to risk and uncertainty and depend on general economic, credit, capital market and other conditions that are beyond our control and are subject to fluctuation.  Our past performance with respect to margin expansion, capital structure improvement and organic growth, both before and after the spin-off, should be considered independent from, and may not be a reliable indicator of, future performance.  These strategic goals may need to be revised or may not be met for a number of reasons, including changes in general economic conditions in the United States and abroad, changes in credit and capital market conditions, increased competition in the markets for our products, increases in raw material or energy costs and changes in technology and manufacturing techniques.. Increases in our raw material or energy costs or the loss of critical suppliers could adversely affect our profitability and other financial results.. We are sensitive to price movements in our raw materials supply base. Our largest material purchases are for steel, copper and aluminum. The prices for these products have historically been volatile, fluctuate with market conditions and may increase as a result of various factors, including: a reduction in the number of suppliers due to restructurings, bankruptcies and consolidations, declining supply due to mine or mill closures and other factors that adversely impact supplier profitability, including increases in supplier operating expenses caused by rising raw material and energy costs. We may be unable to completely offset the impact with price increases on a timely basis due to outstanding commitments to our customers, competitive considerations or our customers' resistance to accepting such price increases and our financial performance may be adversely impacted by further price. 11. Table of Contents. increases. A failure by our suppliers to continue to supply us with certain raw materials or component parts on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on us. To the extent there are energy supply disruptions or material fluctuations in energy costs, our margins could be materially adversely impacted.. Our products are typically highly engineered or customer-driven and we are subject to risks associated with changing technology and manufacturing techniques that could place us at a competitive disadvantage.. We believe that our customers rigorously evaluate their suppliers on the basis of product quality, price competitiveness, technical expertise and development capability, new product innovation, reliability and timeliness of delivery, product design capability, manufacturing expertise, operational flexibility, customer service and overall management. Our success depends on our ability to continue to meet our customers' changing expectations with respect to these criteria. We anticipate that we will remain committed to product research and development, advanced manufacturing techniques and service to remain competitive, which entails significant costs. We may be unable to address technological advances, implement new and more cost-effective manufacturing techniques, or introduce new or improved products, whether in existing or new markets, so as to maintain our businesses' competitive positions or to grow our businesses as desired.. We depend on the services of key individuals and relationships, the loss of which could materially harm us.. Our success will depend, in part, on the efforts of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer. Our future success will also depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key employees or the failure to attract or retain employees could have a material adverse effect on us.. A future impairment of our intangible assets or goodwill could have a material negative impact on our financial results.. At December 31, 2017, our intangible assets and goodwill were approximately $90.2 million and $138.2 million, respectively.  Intangibles and goodwill each represented approximately 14% and 21% of our total assets, respectively. If we experience declines in sales and operating profit or do not meet our current and forecasted operating budget, we may be subject to future impairment charges. Because of the significance of these assets, any future impairment could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. We may face liability associated with the use of products for which patent ownership or other intellectual property rights are claimed.. We may be subject to claims or inquiries regarding alleged unauthorized use of a third party's intellectual property. An adverse outcome in any intellectual property litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to license technology or other intellectual property rights from others, require us to comply with injunctions to cease marketing or using certain products or brands, or require us to redesign, re-engineer, or re-brand certain products or packaging, any of which could affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are required to seek licenses under patents or other intellectual property rights of others, we may not be able to acquire these licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the cost of responding to an intellectual property infringement claim, in terms of legal fees and expenses and the diversion of management resources, whether or not the claim is valid, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property.. While we believe that our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property have significant value, it is uncertain that this intellectual property or any intellectual property acquired or developed by us in the future, will provide a meaningful competitive advantage. Our patents or pending applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by competitors or rights granted thereunder may not provide meaningful proprietary protection. Moreover, competitors may infringe on our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive, and we may not be able to, or have the resources to, prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. The cost of protecting our intellectual property may be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and future results of operations.. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, recall and warranty claims that may be brought against us.. We are subject to a variety of litigation incidental to our business, including claims for damages arising out of use of our products, claims relating to intellectual property matters and claims involving employment matters and commercial disputes.. We currently carry insurance and maintain reserves for potential product liability claims. However, our insurance coverage may be inadequate if such claims do arise and any liability not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we have been able to obtain insurance in amounts we believe to be appropriate to cover such liability to date, our. 12. Table of Contents. insurance premiums may increase in the future as a consequence of conditions in the insurance business generally or our situation in particular. Any such increase could result in lower net income or cause the need to reduce our insurance coverage. In addition, a future claim may be brought against us that could have a material adverse effect on us. Any product liability claim may also include the imposition of punitive damages, the award of which, pursuant to certain state laws, may not be covered by insurance. Our product liability insurance policies have limits that, if exceeded, may result in material costs that could have an adverse effect on our future profitability. In addition, warranty claims are generally not covered by our product liability insurance. Further, any product liability or warranty issues may adversely affect our reputation as a manufacturer of high-quality, safe products, divert management's attention, and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by compliance obligations and liabilities under environmental laws and regulations.. We are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges and chemical and hazardous waste management and disposal. Some of these environmental laws hold owners or operators of land or businesses liable for their own and for previous owners' or operators' releases of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes. Other environmental laws and regulations require the obtainment and compliance with environmental permits. To date, costs of complying with environmental, health and safety requirements have not been material. However, the nature of our operations and our long history of industrial activities at certain of our current or former facilities, as well as those acquired, could potentially result in material environmental liabilities.. While we must comply with existing and pending climate change legislation, regulation and international treaties or accords, current laws and regulations have not had a material impact on our business, capital expenditures or financial position. Future events, including those relating to climate change or greenhouse gas regulation could require us to incur expenses related to the modification or curtailment of operations, installation of pollution control equipment or investigation and cleanup of contaminated sites.. We have a substantial amount of debt. To service our debt, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.  If we cannot generate the required cash, we may not be able to make the necessary payments required under our debt.. At December 31, 2017, we had total long-term debt of approximately $293.7 million (without giving effect to the equity component of our convertible senior notes or any debt discount).  Our ability to make payments on our debt, fund our other liquidity needs, and make planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future.  Our historical financial results have been, and we anticipate that our future financial results will be, subject to fluctuations.  Our ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.  We cannot guarantee that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments of our debt, fund other liquidity needs and make planned capital expenditures.. The degree to which we are currently leveraged could have important consequences for shareholders. For example, it could:. <U+25AA> require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisition and other general corporate purposes;. <U+25AA> increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions;. <U+25AA> limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business; or. <U+25AA> place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt.. Additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would have a material adverse effect on us.. Our borrowing costs may be impacted by our credit ratings developed by various rating agencies.. Two major ratings agencies, Standard & Poor's and Moody's, evaluate our credit profile on an ongoing basis and have each assigned ratings for our long-term debt.  If our credit ratings were to decline, our ability to access certain financial markets may become limited, the perception of us in the view of our customers, suppliers and security holders may worsen and as a result, we may be adversely affected.. 13. Table of Contents. We have significant operating lease obligations and our failure to meet those obligations could adversely affect our financial condition.. We lease many of our manufacturing facilities and certain capital equipment. Our rental expense in 2017 under these operating leases was approximately $20.0 million. A failure to pay our rental obligations would constitute a default allowing the applicable landlord to pursue any remedy available to it under applicable law, which would include taking possession of our property and, in the case of real property, evicting us. These leases are categorized as operating leases and are not considered indebtedness for purposes of our debt instruments.. We may be subject to further unionization and work stoppages at our facilities or our customers may be subject to work stoppages, which could seriously impact the profitability of our business.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 52% of our work force was unionized under several different unions.  We are not aware of any present active union organizing drives at any of our other facilities. We cannot predict the impact of any further unionization of our workplace.. Many of our direct or indirect customers have unionized work forces. Strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by these customers or their suppliers could result in slowdowns or closures of assembly plants where our products are included. In addition, organizations responsible for shipping our customers' products may be impacted by occasional strikes or other activity. Any interruption in the delivery of our customers' products could reduce demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our healthcare costs for active employees and future retirees may exceed our projections and may negatively affect our financial results.. We provide healthcare benefits for active employees through comprehensive hospital, surgical and major medical benefit provisions, all of which are subject to various cost-sharing features. If our costs under our benefit programs for active employees exceed our projections, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, foreign competitors and many domestic competitors provide fewer benefits to their employees, and this difference in cost could adversely impact our competitive position.. A significant portion of our sales is derived from international sources, which exposes us to certain risks which may adversely affect our business and our financial results.. We have extensive operations outside of the United States. Approximately 53% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 were derived from sales by our subsidiaries located outside of the United States.  In addition, we may significantly expand our international operations through internal growth and acquisitions.  International operations, particularly sales to emerging markets and manufacturing in non-U.S. countries, are subject to risks which are not present within U.S. markets, which include, but are not limited to, the following:. <U+25AA> volatility of currency exchange between the U.S. dollar and currencies in international markets;. <U+25AA> changes in local government regulations and policies including, but not limited to, foreign currency exchange controls or monetary policy, governmental embargoes, repatriation of earnings, expropriation of property, duty or tariff restrictions, investment limitations and tax policies. <U+25AA> political and economic instability and disruptions, including labor unrest, civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities, insurrection and terrorism;. <U+25AA> legislation that regulates the use of chemicals;. <U+25AA> disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\");. <U+25AA> compliance with international trade laws and regulations, including export control and economic sanctions, such as anti-dumping duties;. <U+25AA> difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations;. <U+25AA> limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies;. <U+25AA> tax inefficiencies in repatriating cash flow from non-U.S. subsidiaries that could affect our financial results and reduce our ability to service debt;. <U+25AA> reduced protection of intellectual property rights;. 14. Table of Contents. <U+25AA> increasingly complex laws and regulations concerning privacy and data security, including the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation; and. <U+25AA> other risks arising out of foreign sovereignty over the areas where our operations are conducted.. We are also exposed to risks relating to U.S. policy with respect to companies doing business in foreign jurisdictions, particularly in light of the new U.S. presidential administration. Legislation or other changes in the U.S. tax laws could increase our U.S. income tax liability and adversely affect our after-tax profitability. In addition, the new U.S. presidential administration has introduced greater uncertainty with respect to future tax, trade regulations and trade agreements. Changes in tax policy, trade regulations or trade agreements, such as the disallowance of tax deductions on imported merchandise or the imposition of new tariffs on imported products, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. In addition, we could be adversely affected by violations of the FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws as well as export controls and economic sanction laws. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.. Our reputation, ability to do business, and results of operations may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents, or business partners.. While we strive to maintain high standards, we cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws or fail to protect our confidential information, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, anti-kickback and false claims rules, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering, and data privacy laws, as well as the improper use of proprietary information or social media. Any such allegations, violations of law or improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the United States and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, and related shareholder lawsuits, could lead to increased costs of compliance, could damage our reputation and could have a material effect on our financial statements.. Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. If we are unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates, successfully integrate acquired operations or realize the intended benefits of our acquisitions, we may be adversely affected.. We may pursue strategic acquisition opportunities. Any acquisition will likely require integration expenses and actions that could negatively impact our results of operations, some of which we may not be able to fully anticipate beforehand. In addition, attractive acquisition candidates may not be identified and acquired in the future, financing for acquisitions may be unavailable on satisfactory terms and we may be unable to accomplish our strategic objectives in effecting a particular acquisition. We may encounter various risks in acquiring other companies, including the possible inability to integrate an acquired business into our operations, diversion of management's attention and unanticipated problems or liabilities, some or all of which could materially and adversely affect our business strategy and financial condition and results of operations.. We may not realize the growth opportunities and cost synergies that are anticipated from acquisitions.. We completed the acquisition of the Westfalia Group in October 2016 and we expect to acquire the Brink Group in the second quarter of 2018.  The benefits that are expected to result from these acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies as a result of these acquisitions. Our success in realizing these growth opportunities and cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of the Westfalia Group and the Brink Group. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating acquisitions as sizable as the Westfalia Group and the Brink Group. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of, momentum in ours and the Westfalia Group or the Brink Group's activities. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to the integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business, service existing customers, attract new customers, and develop new products or strategies. If senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. There can be no assurance that we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate the Westfalia Group or the Brink Group. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Even if we are able to integrate the Westfalia Group and the Brink Group successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and cost synergies that we currently expect from this integration, and we cannot guarantee that these benefits will be achieved within anticipated time frames or at all. For example, we may not be able to eliminate duplicative costs. Moreover, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with these integrations. While it is anticipated that certain expenses will be incurred to achieve cost synergies, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately, and may exceed current estimates. Accordingly, the benefits from these acquisitions may be offset by costs incurred to, or delays in, integrating the businesses.. 15. Table of Contents. Our acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies include indemnification provisions that may not fully protect us and may result in unexpected liabilities.. Certain of the agreements related to the acquisition of businesses require indemnification against certain liabilities related to the operations of the company for the previous owner. We cannot be assured that any of these indemnification provisions will fully protect us, and as a result we may incur unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our profitability and financial position.. Increased information technology security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, and products.. Increased global information technology security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data and communications. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks and products remain potentially vulnerable to advanced persistent threats. Depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromising of confidential information and communications, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, customer relationships, competitiveness and results of operations.  We may be required to incur significant costs to remedy damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches or to protect against disruption or security breaches in the future.. A major failure of our information systems could harm our business.. We depend on integrated information systems to conduct our business. We may experience operating problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer hackers or other causes. Any significant disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause customers to cancel orders or cause standard business processes to become inefficient or ineffective.. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as our convertible senior notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results.. Under Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") 470-20, \"Debt with Conversion and Other Options\", which we refer to as ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as our convertible senior notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost.  The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for our convertible senior notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheet and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of our convertible senior notes.  As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of our convertible senior notes to their face amount over the term of the convertible senior notes.  We will report lower net income in our financial statements because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the convertible senior notes.. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as our convertible senior notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of our convertible senior notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of our convertible senior notes exceeds their principal amount.  Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued.  We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method.  If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of our convertible senior notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected.. The conditional conversion features of our 2.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition.. In the event the conditional conversion features of the Convertible Notes are triggered, holders of the Convertible Notes will be entitled to convert the Convertible Notes at any time during specified periods at their option.  If one or more holders elect to convert their Convertible Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock, we would be required to make cash payments to satisfy all or a portion of our conversion obligation based on the conversion rate, which could adversely affect our liquidity.  In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Convertible Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Convertible Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which could result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. 16. Table of Contents. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions that we entered into in connection with the offering of the Convertible Senior Notes due 2022 may affect the value of the Convertible Notes and our common stock.. In connection with the offering of the Convertible Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with certain option counterparties.  The Convertible Note Hedges are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the Convertible Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Convertible Notes, as the case may be.  We also entered into warrant transactions with each option counterparty.  The Warrants could separately have a dilutive effect on our common stock to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the Warrants.  In connection with establishing its initial hedge of the Convertible Note Hedges and Warrants, each option counterparty or an affiliate thereof may have entered into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock concurrently with or shortly after the pricing of the Convertible Notes.  This activity could increase (or reduce the size of any decrease in) the market price of our common stock or the Convertible Notes at that time.  In addition, each option counterparty or an affiliate thereof may modify its hedge position by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes (and is likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of the Convertible Notes).  This activity could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock or the Convertible Notes.  In addition, if any such Convertible Note Hedges and Warrants fail to become effective, each option counterparty may unwind its hedge position with respect to our common stock, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock and the value of the Convertible Notes.. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions.. Each option counterparty to the Convertible Note Hedges is a financial institution, and we will be subject to the risk that it might default under the Convertible Note Hedges.  Our exposure to the credit risk of an option counterparty will not be secured by any collateral.  Global economic conditions have from time to time resulted in the actual or perceived failure or financial difficulties of many financial institutions.  If an option counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under our transactions with the option counterparty.  Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price and in the volatility of our common stock.  In addition, upon a default by an option counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and more dilution than we currently anticipate with respect to our common stock.  We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any option counterparty.. Risks Relating to the Spin-off. Our historical consolidated financial information is not necessarily indicative of our future financial condition, results of operations or cash flows nor do they reflect what our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during the periods presented.. Some of the historical consolidated financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K does not reflect what our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would have been as an independent public company during all periods presented and is not necessarily indicative of our future financial condition, future results of operations or future cash flows. This is primarily a result of the following factors:. <U+25AA> these historical consolidated financial results include allocations of expenses for services historically provided by TriMas, and those allocations may be significantly lower than the comparable expenses we would have incurred as an independent company;. <U+25AA> our working capital requirements and capital expenditures historically have been satisfied as a part of TriMas' corporate-wide capital allocation and cash management programs; as a result, our debt structure and cost of debt and other capital may be significantly different from that reflected in our historical consolidated financial statements;. <U+25AA> the historical consolidated financial information may not fully reflect the increased costs associated with being an independent public company, including significant changes that have occurred in our cost structure, management, financing arrangements and business operations as a result of our spin-off from TriMas; and. <U+25AA> the historical consolidated financial information may not fully reflect the effects of certain liabilities that will be incurred or have been assumed by us and may not fully reflect the effects of certain assets and liabilities that have been retained by TriMas.. We remain subject to continuing contingent liabilities of TriMas following the spin-off.. There are several significant areas where the liabilities of TriMas may yet become our obligations. The separation and distribution agreement and employee matters agreement generally provide that we are responsible for substantially all liabilities that relate to. 17. Table of Contents. our Horizon Americas and Horizon Asia - Pacific business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the spin-off, as well as those liabilities of TriMas specifically assumed by us. In addition, under the Internal Revenue Code (the \"Code\") and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the TriMas consolidated tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the completion of the spin-off is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of the entire TriMas consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. In connection with the spin-off, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with TriMas that allocated the responsibility for prior period taxes of the TriMas consolidated tax reporting group between us and TriMas. However, if TriMas is unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. Other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities.. Potential liabilities associated with certain assumed obligations under the tax sharing agreement cannot be precisely quantified at this time.. Under the tax sharing agreement with TriMas, we are responsible generally for certain taxes paid after the spin-off attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, whether accruing before, on or after the spin-off. We have also agreed to be responsible for, and to indemnify TriMas with respect to, all taxes arising as a result of the spin-off (or certain internal restructuring transactions) failing to qualify as transactions under Sections 368(a) and 355 of the Code for U.S. federal income tax purposes (which could result, for example, from a merger or other transaction involving an acquisition of our shares) to the extent such tax liability arises as a result of any breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or other obligation by us or certain affiliates made in connection with the issuance of the tax opinion relating to the spin-off or in the tax sharing agreement. As described above, such tax liability would be calculated as though TriMas (or its affiliate) had sold its shares of common stock of our company in a taxable sale for their fair market value, and TriMas (or its affiliate) would recognize taxable gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of such shares over its tax basis in such shares. That tax liability could have a material adverse effect on our company.. We may not be able to engage in desirable strategic or equity raising transactions following the spin-off. In addition, under some circumstances, we could be liable for any adverse tax consequences resulting from engaging in significant strategic or capital raising transactions.. Even if the spin-off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Code, the spin-off may result in significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities to TriMas under applicable provisions of the Code if 50% or more of TriMas' shares or our shares (in each case, by vote or value) are treated as having been acquired, directly or indirectly, by one or more persons (other than the acquisition of our common stock by TriMas stockholders in the spin-off) as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) that includes the spin-off. Under those provisions, any acquisitions of TriMas shares or our shares (or similar acquisitions), or any understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations regarding an acquisition of TriMas shares or our shares (or similar acquisitions), within two years before or after the spin-off are subject to special scrutiny. The process for determining whether an acquisition triggering those provisions has occurred is complex, inherently factual and subject to interpretation of the facts and circumstances of a particular case. If a direct or indirect acquisition of TriMas shares or our shares resulted in a change in control as contemplated by those provisions, TriMas (but not its stockholders) would recognize a taxable gain. Under the tax sharing agreement, there are restrictions on our ability to take actions that could cause the separation to fail to qualify as a tax-free distribution, and we will be required to indemnify TriMas against any such tax liabilities attributable to actions taken by or with respect to us or any of our affiliates, or any person that, after the spin-off, is an affiliate thereof. We may be similarly liable if we breach certain other representations or covenants set forth in the tax sharing agreement. As a result of the foregoing, we may be unable to engage in certain strategic or capital raising transactions that our stockholders might consider favorable, including use of Horizon common stock to make acquisitions and equity capital market transactions, or to structure potential transactions in the manner most favorable to us, without adverse tax consequences, if at all.. Potential indemnification liabilities to TriMas pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We entered into a separation and distribution agreement with TriMas that provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions required to affect the spin-off, certain conditions to the spin-off and provisions governing the relationship between our company and TriMas with respect to and resulting from the spin-off. Among other things, the separation and distribution agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our Cequent business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the spin-off, as well as those obligations of TriMas assumed by us pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement. If we are required to indemnify TriMas under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities.. 18. Table of Contents. In connection with our separation from TriMas, TriMas will indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that TriMas' ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations will not be impaired in the future.. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, TriMas agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that TriMas has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from TriMas will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that TriMas will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from TriMas any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these liabilities ourselves. If TriMas is unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the underlying liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Further, TriMas' insurers may deny coverage to us for liabilities associated with occurrences prior to the spin-off. Even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from such insurance providers, we may be required to temporarily bear such loss of coverage.. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price may be subject to significant volatility due to our own results or market trends.. If our revenue, earnings or cash flows in any quarter fail to meet the investment community's expectations, there could be an immediate negative impact on our stock price.  Our stock price could also be impacted by broader market trends and world events unrelated to our performance.. Our recent issuance of convertible senior notes, or the issuance of any additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into shares of our common stock, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In February 2017, we issued $125.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes.  The convertible senior notes may be settled in cash, shares of common stock or a combination of cash and shares of common stock, at our option.  In the future, we may issued additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, shares of our common stock.  The recent convertible senior notes issuance, and any future issuance of shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable into, shares of our common stock, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. In particular, a substantial number of shares of our common stock is reserved for issuance upon conversion of the convertible senior notes upon exercise and settlement or termination of the warrant transactions that we entered into in connection with the convertible senior notes offering, and upon the exercise of stock options, the vesting of restricted stock awards and deferred restricted stock units to our employees. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. The issuance and sale of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities. In addition, the market price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view our convertible senior notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in us and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our convertible senior notes and our common stock.. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, or our \"certificate of incorporation,\" and Amended and Restated Bylaws, or our \"bylaws,\" as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt that stockholders may consider favorable.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provisions, as amended and restated, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or discouraging a prospective acquiror from making a tender offer for our common stock or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.  These provisions, among other things, establish that our board of directors fixes the number of members of the board, divide the board of directors into three classes with staggered terms and establish advance notice requirements for nomination of candidates for election to the board or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings.  To the extent that these provisions discourage takeover attempts, they could deprive stockholders of opportunities to realize takeover premiums for their shares of common stock.  Moreover, these provisions could discourage accumulations of large blocks of our common stock, thus depriving stockholders of any advantages that large accumulations of common stock might provide.. As a Delaware corporation, we will also be subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Section 203 prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our voting stock from engaging in certain business combinations unless the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder was approved in advance by our board of directors, results in the stockholder holding more than 85% of. 19. Table of Contents. our voting stock, subject to certain restrictions, or is approved at an annual or special meeting of stockholders by the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our voting stock not held by the stockholder engaging in the transaction.. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.. We may issue preferred stock with terms that could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. For example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the \"JOBS Act\"). For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company we may choose to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to emerging growth companies, which includes, among other things:. <U+25AA> exemption from the auditor attestation requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002;. <U+25AA> reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements;. <U+25AA> exemption from the requirements of holding non-binding stockholder votes on executive compensation arrangements; and. <U+25AA> exemption from any rules requiring mandatory audit firm rotation and auditor discussion and analysis and, unless the SEC otherwise determines, any future audit rules that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.. We could be an emerging growth company until the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the consummation of the spin-off, or until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have annual gross revenue of $1 billion (subject to adjustment for inflation) or more, (ii) the date on which we have, during the previous three year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt or (iii) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the federal securities laws. We will qualify as a large accelerated filer as of the first day of the first fiscal year after we have (i) more than $700 million in outstanding common equity held by our non-affiliates and (ii) been public for at least 12 months. The value of our outstanding common equity will be measured each year on the last day of our second fiscal quarter.. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies are also permitted to elect to delay adoption of new or revised accounting standards until companies that are not subject to periodic reporting obligations are required to comply, if such accounting standards apply to non-reporting companies. We have made an irrevocable decision to opt out of this extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards.. Changes in laws or regulations or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement could adversely impact our financial performance and restrict our ability to operate our business or execute our strategies.. New laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations, or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement, could increase our cost of doing business and restrict our ability to operate our business or execute our strategies. In particular, there may be significant changes in U.S. laws and regulations and existing international trade agreements by the current U.S. presidential administration that could affect a wide variety of industries and businesses, including those businesses we own and operate. If the current U.S. presidential administration materially modifies U.S. laws and regulations and international trade agreements, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.. On December 22, 2017, U.S. tax reform legislation informally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the \"2017 Tax Act,\" was signed into law.  The 2017 Tax Act makes substantial changes to U.S. tax law, including a reduction in the corporate tax rate, a limitation on deductibility of interest expense, a limitation on the use of net operating losses to offset future taxable income, the. 20. Table of Contents. allowance of immediate expensing of capital expenditures, deemed repatriation of foreign earnings and significant changes to the taxation of foreign earnings going forward. We expect the 2017 Tax Act to have significant effects on us, some of which may be adverse. For example, we would expect impacts on the amount of tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities recognized in the financial statements. The extent of the impact remains uncertain at this time and is subject to any other regulatory or administrative developments including any regulations or other guidance promulgated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. The 2017 Tax Act contains numerous, complex provisions impacting U.S. multinational companies, and we continue to review and assess the legislative language and its potential impact on us."
