[1] "ITEM 1A - Risk Factors. Our results of operations and financial condition can be adversely affected by numerous risks.  You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information we have provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only ones we face.  You should also consider the factors contained in our \"Forward Looking Statements\" disclaimer found on page ii of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.. We may not have the funds available or be able to obtain the funds necessary to meet the obligations relating to our 2020 senior notes, our 2021 senior notes, or our New Credit Facility.. Our 2020 senior notes, our 2021 senior notes, and our New Credit Facility, which collectively have a face value of $980.3 million, mature in April 2020, March 2021, and June 2023, respectively.  In addition, upon the occurrence of certain change of control events, as defined in the indentures governing the 2020 senior notes and the 2021 senior notes, holders of such notes would have the right to require us to repurchase such notes at 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  We do not expect to have sufficient cash on hand and cash flow from operations to meet all of these obligations as they come due and will need to access additional sources of capital in order to refinance some or all of this indebtedness prior to maturity.  There can be no assurance that we will succeed in accessing new capital or, if successful, that the capital we raise will not be expensive or dilutive to stockholders.  Failure to meet our obligations related to any tranche of our senior notes may result in the acceleration of our other indebtedness and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. As a result of the declines in oil prices that began in late 2014, our clients have reduced and may further reduce spending on exploration and production projects, resulting in a decrease in demand for our services.. Oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in these prices, significantly impact the level of worldwide drilling and production services activities.  Reduced demand for oil and natural gas or periods of surplus oil and natural gas generally result in lower prices for these commodities and often impact the economics of planned drilling projects and ongoing production projects, resulting in the curtailment, reduction, delay or postponement of such projects for an indeterminate period of time.  When drilling and production activity and spending declines, both vessel dayrates and utilization for our vessels historically decline as well.  This has been the case, beginning in October 2014 and continuing into 2018.. Oil prices worldwide dropped significantly commencing in 2014.  While prices have partially recovered, we cannot predict whether current prices are sustainable.  Further we do not know whether current prices will result in increased offshore and/or deepwater capital spending by our customers.. A continuation of the prolonged reduction in the overall level of exploration and development activities, whether resulting from changes in oil and gas prices or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect us by negatively impacting:. •our revenues, cash flows and profitability;. •the fair market value of our vessels;. •our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity;. • our ability to obtain capital to re-finance our existing debt or expand our business through acquisitions, or otherwise;. •the collectability of our receivables; and. • our ability to retain or rehire skilled personnel whom we would need in the event of an upturn in the demand for our services.. If any of the foregoing were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Increases in the supply of vessels could decrease dayrates.. In addition to our fifth OSV newbuild program, which is nearing completion, certain of our competitors previously announced plans to construct new vessels to be deployed in domestic and foreign locations, thus adding to the available vessel capacity.  A remobilization to the GoM oilfield of U.S.-flagged vessels currently operating in other regions or in non-. 15. Table of Contents. oilfield applications would result in an increase in vessel capacity in the GoM, one of our core markets.  Similarly, vessel capacity in foreign markets, including our core markets of Mexico and Brazil, may also be impacted by U.S.-flagged or other vessels migrating to such foreign locations.  Further, a repeal, suspension or significant modification of the Jones Act, or the administrative erosion of its benefits, permitting vessels that are either foreign-flagged, foreign-built, foreign-owned, foreign-controlled or foreign-operated to engage in the U.S. coastwise trade, would also result in an increase in capacity.  Any increase in the supply of OSVs or MPSVs, whether through new construction, refurbishment or conversion of vessels from other uses, remobilization or changes in law or its application, could not only increase competition for charters and lower utilization and dayrates, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability, but could also worsen the impact of the current or any future downturn in the oil and gas industry on our results of operations and financial condition.  Because some services provided by MPSVs are not protected by the Jones Act, foreign competitors may bring additional MPSVs to the GoM or build additional MPSVs that we will compete with domestically or internationally for such services.. The level of offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production activity has historically been volatile and is likely to continue to be so in the future.  The level of activity is subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in a variety of factors that are beyond our control.. Changes in, among others, the following factors can negatively impact our performance:. • worldwide demand for oil and natural gas;. • prevailing oil and natural gas prices and expectations about future prices and price volatility;. • changes in capital spending budgets by our customers;. • the ability of oil and gas companies to generate or otherwise obtain funds for exploration and production;. • local and international political and economic conditions and policies;. • unavailability of drilling rigs in our core markets of the GoM, Mexico and Brazil;. • the cost of offshore exploration for, and production and transportation of, oil and natural gas;. • successful exploration for, and production and transportation of, oil and natural gas from onshore sources;. • consolidation of oil and gas and oil service companies operating offshore;. • availability and rate of discovery of new oil and natural gas reserves in offshore areas;. • technological advances affecting energy production and consumption;. • the ability or willingness of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to set and maintain production levels for oil;. • oil and natural gas production levels by non-OPEC countries;. • weather conditions; and. • environmental and other regulations affecting our customers and their other service providers.. Commencing in late 2014, we observed a significant decline in oil prices, which caused oil companies to announce and implement significant reductions in their capital spending programs, that is the source of much of our business activity.  A prolonged period of reduced oil prices is having and could continue to have a significant adverse and long-term impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. The early termination of contracts on our vessels could have an adverse effect on our operations.. Some of the long-term contracts for our vessels and all contracts with governmental entities and national oil companies contain early termination options in favor of the customer; however, some have early termination remedies or other provisions designed to discourage the customers from exercising such options.  We cannot assure that our customers would not choose to exercise their termination rights in spite of such remedies or the threat of litigation with us. Until replacement of such business with other customers, any termination could temporarily disrupt our business or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  We might not be able to replace such business on economically equivalent terms.  In addition, during the current and prior downturns, we have experienced customers requesting contractual concessions even though contrary to existing contractual terms.  While not legally required to give concessions, commercial considerations may dictate that we do so, given the relatively few deepwater customers operating in the GoM.. Intense competition in our industry could reduce our profitability and market share.. Contracts for our vessels are generally awarded on an intensely competitive basis.  Some of our competitors are willing to accept lower dayrates in order to maintain utilization, which can have a negative impact on our dayrates and utilization.  As a result, we could lose customers and market share to these competitors.  Similarly, competition in various markets may also be impacted by U.S.-flagged vessels migrating in and out of foreign locations due to the pace of drilling activity in the GoM.. We may not be able to complete the construction of our remaining newbuild program or may experience delays or cost overruns related to that program.. We are currently constructing the last two MPSVs under our pending newbuild program.  These vessels are large and complex.  We are required to make remaining milestone payments to the shipyard and other vendors totaling approximately $62 million, the majority of which payments will be due in 2019 upon delivery of each vessel from the shipyard.  While we have sufficient cash on hand today to meet these obligations, unforeseen events could result in our inability to fund these obligations when they come due, which could have an adverse impact on our business plans, financial condition and results from operations.  Additionally, the shipyard is delayed and unforeseen events could result in significant cost overruns for which, under certain circumstances, we might be responsible.  Such delays or cost overruns could impact our ability to meet our obligations to the shipyard and could otherwise materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results from operations.. The failure to successfully complete repairs, maintenance and routine drydockings on-schedule and on-budget could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We routinely engage shipyards to drydock our vessels for regulatory compliance and to provide repair and maintenance.  These activities are subject to the risks of delay and cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, including shortages of equipment, lack of shipyard availability, unforeseen engineering problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases, including costs of steel, inability to obtain necessary certifications and approvals and shortages of materials or skilled labor.  Significant delays could result in adverse effects to our anticipated contract commitments or revenues.  Significant cost overruns could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions that give rise to risks and challenges that could adversely affect our future financial results.. We regularly consider possible acquisitions of single vessels, vessel fleets and businesses that complement our existing operations to enable us to grow our business.  Acquisitions can involve a number of special risks and challenges, including:. • diversion of management time and attention from our existing business and other business opportunities;. • delays in closing or the inability to close an acquisition for any reason, including third party consents or approvals;. • any unanticipated negative impact on us of disclosed or undisclosed matters relating to any vessels or operations acquired;. 17. Table of Contents. • loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees;. • assumption of debt or other liabilities of the acquired business, including litigation related to the acquired business;. • the incurrence of additional acquisition-related debt as well as increased expenses and working capital requirements;. • dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders;. • increased costs and efforts in connection with compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; and. • substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related expenses, impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and stock-based compensation expense.. Even if we consummate an acquisition, the process of integrating acquired operations into our own may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and costs and may require significant management attention and financial resources.  In addition, integrating acquired businesses may impact the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting.  In the currently depressed market for OSVs, we might not be able to place vessels we acquire into immediate service, which will result in our paying for the cost to stack these vessels and eventually the cost to bring them out of stack, which could be a significant barrier to their utilization if we do not have sufficient liquidity to justify such expenses.  Any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of utilization and profitability from acquired vessels or businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions.. We can give no assurance that we will be able to identify desirable acquisition candidates or that we will be successful in entering into definitive agreements or closing such acquisitions on satisfactory terms.  An inability to acquire additional vessels or businesses may limit our growth potential.. Our contracts with the United States Government could be impacted by budget cuts.. Our government contracts depend upon annual funding commitments authorized by Congress.  In a period of government budget cuts or other political events, our contracts might not be re-authorized, resulting in a material decline in our anticipated revenues.. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business.. Increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing worker health and safety and the manning, construction and operation of vessels significantly affect our operations.  Many aspects of the marine industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the USCG, the National Transportation Safety Board, the EPA and the United States Customs Service, and their foreign equivalents, and to regulation by private industry organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping.  The USCG and the National Transportation Safety Board set safety standards and are authorized to investigate vessel accidents and recommend improved safety standards, while the USCG and Customs Service are authorized to inspect vessels at will.  Our operations are also subject to international conventions, federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that control the discharge of pollutants into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection.  Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards may require installation of costly equipment, increased manning, specific training, and/or operational changes.  While we endeavor to comply with all applicable laws, circumstances might exist where we might not come into complete compliance with applicable laws and regulations which could result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions, imposition of remedial obligations or the suspension or termination of our operations.  Some environmental laws impose strict, joint and several liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault.  These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others, including charterers.  Moreover, these laws and regulations could change in ways that substantially increase costs that we may not be able to pass along to our customers.  Any changes in applicable conventions or laws, regulations or standards that would impose additional requirements or restrictions on our or our oil and gas exploration and production customers' operations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  It is possible that laws and regulations may become even more stringent, which could also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. We are also subject to the Merchant Marine Act of 1936, which provides that, upon proclamation by the President of a national emergency or a threat to the security of the national defense, the Secretary of Transportation may requisition or purchase any vessel or other watercraft owned by United States citizens (which includes United States corporations), including vessels under construction in the United States.  If one of our OSVs or MPSVs were purchased or requisitioned by the federal government under this law, we would be entitled to be paid the fair market value of the vessel in the case of a purchase or, in the case of a requisition, the fair market value of charter hire.  We would also not be entitled to be compensated for any consequential damages we suffer as a result of the requisition or purchase of any of our OSVs or MPSVs.  The purchase or the requisition for an extended period of time of one or more of our vessels could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Finally, we are subject to the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, commonly referred to as the Jones Act, which requires that vessels engaged in coastwise trade to carry cargo between U.S. ports be documented under the laws of the United States and be controlled by U.S. citizens.  A corporation is not considered a U.S. citizen unless, among other things, at least 75% of the ownership of voting interests with respect to its equity securities are held by U.S. citizens.  We endeavor to ensure that we would be determined to be a U.S. citizen as defined under these laws by including in our certificate of incorporation certain restrictions on the ownership of our capital stock by non-U.S. citizens and establishing certain mechanisms to maintain compliance with these laws.  If we are determined at any time not to be in compliance with these citizenship requirements, our vessels might become ineligible to engage in the coastwise trade in U.S. domestic waters, and our business and operating results would be adversely affected.. The Jones Act's provisions restricting coastwise trade to vessels controlled by U.S. citizens have been circumvented in recent years by foreign interests that seek to engage in trade reserved for vessels controlled by U.S. citizens and otherwise qualifying for coastwise trade.  Legal challenges against such actions are difficult, costly to pursue and are of uncertain outcome.  In addition, the Jones Act is often criticized and there are efforts underway by affected interest groups to seek its repeal.  To the extent such efforts are successful and foreign competition is permitted, such competition could have a material adverse effect on domestic companies in the offshore service vessel industry and on our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, in the interest of national defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security is authorized to suspend the coastwise trading restrictions imposed by the Jones Act on vessels not controlled by U.S. citizens.  Such waivers are granted from time-to-time.. Our business involves many operating risks that may disrupt our business or otherwise result in substantial losses, and insurance may be unavailable or inadequate to protect us against these risks.. Our vessels are subject to operating risks such as:. • catastrophic marine disaster;. • adverse weather and sea conditions;. • mechanical failure;. • collisions or allisions;. • oil and hazardous substance spills;. • navigation errors;. • acts of God; and. • war and terrorism.. The occurrence of any of these events may result in damage to or loss of our vessels or other property, injury or death of people or contamination of the environment.  If any of these events were to occur, we could be exposed to liability for resulting damages and possible penalties that, pursuant to typical marine indemnity policies, we must pay and then seek reimbursement from our insurer.  Affected vessels may also be removed from service and thus be unavailable for income-generating activity.  While we believe our insurance coverage is adequate and insures us against risks that are customary in the industry, we may be unable to renew such coverage in the future at commercially reasonable rates. Moreover, existing or future coverage may not be sufficient to cover claims that may arise and we do not maintain insurance for loss of income resulting from a marine casualty.. 19. Table of Contents. Our operations in international markets and shipyard activities in foreign shipyards subjects us to risks inherent in conducting business internationally.. We derive a portion of our revenues from foreign sources.  In addition, certain of our shipyard repair and procurement activities are being conducted with foreign vendors.  We therefore face risks inherent in conducting business internationally, such as legal and governmental regulatory requirements, potential vessel seizure or nationalization of assets, import-export quotas or other trade barriers, difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods, political and economic instability, kidnapping of or assault on personnel, piracy, adverse tax consequences, difficulties and costs of staffing international operations and language and cultural differences.  We do not hedge against foreign currency risk.  While we endeavor to contract in U.S. Dollars when operating internationally, some contracts may be denominated in a foreign currency, which would result in a foreign currency exposure risk.  All of these risks are beyond our control and difficult to insure against.  We cannot predict the nature and the likelihood of any such events.  If such an event should occur, however, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may lose the right to operate in some international markets in which we have a presence.. In certain foreign markets in which we operate, most notably Mexico, we sometimes depend upon governmental waivers of cabotage laws.  These waivers could be revoked or made more burdensome, which could result in our inability to continue our operations or materially increase the costs of operating in such foreign locations.  In addition, our foreign customers are often large state-owned oil companies that have monopolies or near monopolies in their home countries.  These companies sometimes impose contractual requirements or restrictions that cannot be negotiated away and that can impose significant operating risks upon us.  From time to time, we have challenged these contractual actions in foreign markets, which entails significant risks.. Future results of operations depend on the long-term financial stability of our customers.. Some of the contracts we enter into for our vessels are full utilization contracts with initial terms ranging from one to five years.  We enter into these long-term contracts with our customers based on a credit assessment at the time of execution.  Our financial condition in any period may therefore depend on the long-term stability and creditworthiness of our customers.  We can provide no assurance that our customers will fulfill their obligations under our long-term contracts and the insolvency or other failure of a customer to fulfill its obligations under such contracts could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified, skilled employees necessary to operate our business.. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel.  Our inability to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could impair our ability to manage, maintain and grow our business.. In crewing our vessels, we require skilled employees who can perform physically demanding work.  As a result of the recent volatility of the oil and gas industry, we have significantly reduced our mariner headcount.  Additionally, as a result of such volatility, vessel employees and potential employees may choose to pursue employment in fields that offer a more desirable work environment at wage rates that are competitive with ours.  Further, unlike the current weak market conditions, during normal market conditions, we face strong competition within the broader oilfield industry for employees and potential employees, including competition from drilling rig operators for our fleet personnel.  We may have difficulty hiring employees or finding suitable replacements as needed and, once normal market conditions return, should a reduced pool of workers arise, it is possible that we would have to raise wage rates or increase our benefits offered to attract workers and to retain our current employees.  In such circumstances, should we not be able to increase our service rates to our customers to compensate for wage-rate increases or recruit qualified personnel to operate our vessels at full utilization, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Our employees are covered by federal laws that may subject us to job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws.. Some of our employees are covered by provisions of the Jones Act, the Death on the High Seas Act and general maritime law.  These laws preempt state workers' compensation laws and permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related incidents in federal courts based on tort theories.. 20. Table of Contents. Because we are not generally protected by the damage limits imposed by state workers' compensation statutes for these types of claims, we may have greater exposure for any claims made by these employees.. Our success depends on key members of our management, the loss of whom could disrupt our business operations.. We depend to a large extent on the efforts and continued employment of our executive officers and key management personnel.  We do not maintain key-man insurance.  The loss of services of one or more of our executive officers or key management personnel could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Restrictions contained in the indentures governing our 2020 senior notes, our 2021 senior notes, and in the agreement governing our New Credit Facility may limit our ability to obtain additional financing and to pursue other business opportunities.. Covenants contained in the indenture governing our 2020 senior notes, in the indenture governing our 2021 senior notes and in the agreement governing our New Credit Facility require us to meet certain financial tests, which may limit or otherwise restrict:. • our flexibility in operating, planning for, and reacting to changes, in our business;. • our ability to dispose of assets, withstand current or future economic or industry downturns and compete with others in our industry for strategic opportunities; and. • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, refinancing of existing debt, capital expenditures, including our newbuild programs, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes.. We have high levels of fixed costs that will be incurred regardless of our level of business activity.. Our business has high fixed costs.  Downtime or low productivity due to reduced demand, as is currently being experienced, from weather interruptions or other causes can have a significant negative effect on our operating results and financial condition.  In addition, given our recent vessel stackings, our fixed costs are borne by a substantially smaller active fleet of vessels.. Our revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors such as volatility in our vessel dayrates, changes in utilization, vessel incidents and other unforeseen matters. Many of these factors that may cause our actual financial results to vary from our publicly disclosed earnings guidance and forecasts are outside of our control.. Our actual financial results might vary from those anticipated by us or by securities analysts and investors, and these variations could be material.  From time to time we publicly provide various forms of guidance, which reflect our projections about future market expectations and operating performance.  The numerous assumptions underlying such guidance may be impacted by factors that are beyond our control and might not turn out to be accurate.  Although we believe that the assumptions underlying our projections are reasonable when such projections are made, actual results could be materially different, particularly with respect to our MPSVs.. We are susceptible to unexpected increases in operating expenses such as crew wages, materials and supplies, maintenance and repairs, and insurance costs.. Many of our operating costs, such as crew wages, materials and supplies, maintenance and repairs, and insurance costs, are unpredictable and vary based on events beyond our control.  Our gross margins will vary based on fluctuations in our operating costs.  If our costs increase or we encounter unforeseen costs, we may not be able to recover such costs from our customers, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Stacked vessels may introduce additional operational issues.. In recognition of weak market conditions, we have elected to stack OSVs and MPSVs on various dates since October 1, 2014.  We may choose to stack additional vessels should market conditions warrant.  In connection with such stackings, we have reduced our mariner headcount significantly.  Operationally, we limit the number of persons available to maintain such stacked vessels.  Also, we have fewer revenue-producing units in service that can contribute to our. 21. Table of Contents. results and contribute cash flows to cover our fixed costs and commitments.  When stacked vessels return to service, we will incur previously deferred drydocking costs for regulatory recertifications and may incur costs to hire and train mariners to operate such vessels.  Delay in reactivating stacked vessels and the costs and other expenses related to the reactivation of stacked vessels could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations.. We may be adversely affected by uncertainty in the global financial markets.. Our future results may be impacted by volatility, weakness or deterioration in the debt and equity capital markets.  Inflation, deflation, or other adverse economic conditions may negatively affect us or parties with whom we do business resulting in their non-payment or inability to perform obligations owed to us, such as the failure of customers to honor their commitments, the failure of shipyards and major suppliers to complete orders or the failure by banks to provide expected funding under our revolving credit agreement.  Additionally, credit market conditions may slow our collection efforts as customers experience increased difficulty in obtaining requisite financing, potentially leading to lost revenue and higher than normal accounts receivable.  This could result in greater expense associated with collection efforts and increased bad debt expense.. Any softening in the global economic recovery may adversely impact our ability to issue additional debt and equity in the future on acceptable terms.  We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms.. We may be unable to collect amounts owed to us by our customers.. We typically grant our customers credit on a short-term basis.  Related credit risks are inherent as we do not typically collateralize receivables due from customers.  We provide estimates for uncollectible accounts based primarily on our judgment using historical losses, current economic conditions and individual evaluations of each customer as evidence supporting the receivables valuations stated on our financial statements.  However, our receivables valuation estimates may not be accurate and receivables due from customers reflected in our financial statements may not be collectible.. Future changes in legislation, policy, restrictions or regulations for drilling in the United States that cause delays or deter new drilling could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. In response to the April 20, 2010, Deepwater Horizon incident, the regulatory agencies with jurisdiction over oil and gas exploration, including the DOI, imposed temporary moratoria on drilling operations, by requiring operators to reapply for exploration plans and drilling permits that had previously been approved, and by adopting numerous new regulations and new interpretations of existing regulations regarding offshore operations that are applicable to our customers and with which their new applications for exploration plans and drilling permits must prove compliant.  Compliance with these new regulations and new interpretations of existing regulations have materially increased the cost of drilling operations in the GoM.  These additional compliance costs could materially adversely impact our business, financial position or results of operations.. The fundamental change purchase feature of our 2019 convertible senior notes and the change of control purchase features of our 2020 senior notes and our 2021 senior notes and provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, stockholder rights plan and Delaware law may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover attempt of the Company.. The terms of our 2019 convertible senior notes require us to purchase the notes for cash in the event of a fundamental change, as defined in the applicable indenture.  Upon a change in control, our 2020 senior notes and our 2021 senior notes require us to repurchase such senior notes at 101% of aggregate principal.  A change in control of the Company would trigger the requirement that we purchase the 2019 convertible senior notes, the 2020 senior notes and the 2021 senior notes.  A de-listing of the Company would trigger the requirement that we purchase the 2019 convertible senior notes.  Furthermore, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware corporations law, and our stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us.  These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of the Company that would otherwise be beneficial to investors.. 22. Table of Contents. Our stock price has been volatile, declining precipitously from time to time during the period from 2013 through the present, and it could decline again.. The securities markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility in recent years.  The market price and trading volume of our common stock may continue to experience significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects or those of companies in our industry.  In addition to the other risk factors discussed above, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by:. • factors influencing the levels of global oil and natural gas exploration and exploitation activities, such as the current depressed prices for oil or natural gas;. • the ability or willingness of OPEC to set and maintain production levels for oil;. • oil and gas production levels by non-OPEC countries;. • operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;. • disasters such as the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010;. • the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors or analysts consider comparable to us;. • actions by rating agencies related to our 2019 convertible senior notes, our 2020 senior notes, or our 2021 senior notes;. • geopolitical risks;. • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or by our competitors; and. • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets."
