[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this report and in our other public filings, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be harmed. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. We have a history of losses, and we may not become profitable in the future.. We have incurred net losses since our inception, including net losses of $204.5 million, $251.7 million and $179.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As a result, we had an accumulated deficit of $907.7 million as of December 31, 2017. It is difficult for us to predict our future results of operations because the market for our solutions is rapidly evolving and has not yet reached widespread adoption. We may not achieve sufficient revenue to attain and maintain profitability. We expect our operating expenses to increase over the next several years as we hire additional personnel, particularly in sales, expand and improve the effectiveness of our distribution channels, and continue to invest in the development of our Connected Data Platforms, HDP, HDF, HCP and other offerings. In addition, as we grow, we will incur additional significant legal, accounting and other expenses. As a result of these increased expenses, we will have to generate and sustain increased revenue to be profitable in future periods. Any failure by us to sustain or increase profitability on a consistent basis could cause the value of our common stock to decline.. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to predict our future results of operations.. We were incorporated in 2011 and introduced our first solution in 2012. As a result of our limited operating history, our ability to forecast our future results of operations is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. Our historical revenue growth has been inconsistent, has benefited from transactions with related parties and should not be considered indicative of our future performance. Further, in future periods, our revenue growth could slow or our revenue could decline for a number of reasons, including an increase in multi-year arrangements, slowing demand for our offerings, increasing competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, or our failure, for any reason, to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities. It could also become increasingly difficult to predict revenue as our mix of annual, multi-year and other types of arrangements changes as a result of our expansion into cloud-based offerings. Finally, we have also encountered and will encounter risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as the risks and uncertainties described herein. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties and our future revenue growth (each of which we use to plan our business) are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations and our business could suffer.. We do not have an adequate history with our offerings or pricing models to accurately predict the long-term rate of customer renewals or adoption, or the impact these renewals and adoption will have on our revenue or results of operations.. We have limited experience with respect to determining the optimal prices for our support subscription, professional services, on-premises and cloud-based offerings. As the markets for our offerings mature, or as competitors introduce new products or services that compete with ours, we may be unable to attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing model as we have used historically. Moreover, large customers, which are the focus of our sales efforts, may demand greater price concessions. As a result, in the future, we may be required to reduce our prices, which could harm our revenue, gross margins, financial position and cash flows. Furthermore, while the terms of our support subscription, professional services, on-premises and. 13. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. cloud-based offering agreements limit the number of supported nodes or the size of supported data sets, such limitations may be improperly circumvented or otherwise bypassed by certain users.. We expect to derive a significant portion of our revenue from renewals of existing customer agreements. As a result, customers renewing and expanding their relationships with us will be critical to our business. Our customers have no obligation to continue their relationships with us after the expiration of the initial agreement period and may renew for fewer elements of our offerings or on different pricing terms. We have limited historical data with respect to customer renewals, including those arrangements which also allow the customer the ability to potentially impact the direction and development of the underlying open source solution, so we cannot accurately predict customer renewals. Our customers' renewals may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their dissatisfaction with our pricing or our offerings and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. Additionally, customers may elect to internally implement and self-support Hadoop deployments or other offerings similar to ours rather than contracting with us for them. If our customers do not renew their agreements on similar pricing terms, our revenue may decline and our business could suffer. In addition, over time the average term of our contracts could change based on renewals or for other reasons.. Because we derive our revenue and cash flows primarily from supporting our Connected Data Platforms and professional services related to them, failure of these offerings or our new product offerings to satisfy customer requirements or to achieve increased market acceptance would harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects.. We derive and expect to continue to derive primarily all of our revenue and cash flows from customer fees for support subscription offerings and professional services in support of our Connected Data Platforms. As such, the market acceptance of our Connected Data Platforms is critical to our continued success. Customer demand for our Connected Data Platforms is affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including the market acceptance of an open source data platform for both incremental and existing use cases, the continued enhancement of our Connected Data Platforms to support new use cases and to incorporate features and functionality desired by our support subscription customers, the timing of development and release of new products by our competitors, technological change and growth or contraction in our market. We expect the proliferation of data to lead to an increase in the data storage and processing demands of our customers, and our Connected Data Platforms may not be able to perform to meet those demands. If we are unable to continue to meet support subscription customer requirements or to achieve more widespread market acceptance of our Connected Data Platforms, our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects will be harmed.. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to penetrate the existing market for open source Connected Data Platforms as well as on the growth and expansion of the market for open source Connected Data Platforms.. The market for our Connected Data Platforms encompasses demand for open source distributed data platforms powered by Apache Hadoop and demand for open source data ingest platforms powered principally by open source projects like Apache NiFi. These markets are relatively new and rapidly evolving. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to penetrate the existing market for open source distributed data platforms, as well as the continued growth and expansion of that market, and it will also depend on the ability of technology like Apache NiFi to penetrate the existing market for open source data ingest platforms as well as the continued growth and expansion of that market. It is difficult to predict support subscription customer adoption and renewals, support subscription customer demand for our offerings, the size, growth rate and expansion of these markets, the entry of competitive products or the success of existing competitive products. Our ability to penetrate the existing market for open source Connected Data Platforms and any expansion of that market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value associated with our offerings, as well as support subscription customers' willingness to adopt an alternative approach to data collection, storage and processing. Furthermore, many potential support subscription customers have made significant investments in legacy data collection, storage and processing software and may be unwilling to invest in new solutions. If the market for open source Connected Data Platforms fails to grow or expand or decreases in size, or if we do not succeed in further penetrating that market, our business would be harmed.. 14. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with our partners, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed.. In addition to our direct sales force and our website, we use strategic partners, such as distribution partners and resellers, to sell many of our offerings. We expect that sales through partners will continue to grow as a proportion of our revenue for the foreseeable future.. Our agreements with our partners are generally non-exclusive, meaning our partners may offer customers the products and services of several different companies, including products and services that compete with ours, or may themselves be or become competitors. If our partners do not effectively market and sell our offerings, choose to use greater efforts to market and sell their own products and services or those of our competitors, or fail to meet the needs of our customers, our ability to grow our business and sell our offerings may be harmed. Our partners may cease marketing our offerings with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty. The loss of a substantial number of our partners, our possible inability to replace them, or the failure to recruit additional partners could harm our results of operations.. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend in part on our success in maintaining successful relationships with our partners, and in helping our partners enhance their ability to independently sell our offerings and deliver professional services. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with these partners, or otherwise develop and expand our indirect distribution channel, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be harmed.. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business and operating results could be harmed.. We face substantial competition from Hadoop distribution vendors such as Cloudera and MapR, as well as from enterprise software vendors, system providers and infrastructure companies that provide support subscription, professional services, on-premises or cloud-based offerings similar to our own. Further, other established system providers not currently focused on offerings similar to ours, including traditional data warehouse solution providers such as Teradata, SAP and Dell EMC, or open source distributed data platform providers, including non-relational NoSQL database providers such as MongoDB and DataStax, may expand their products and services to compete with us. Additionally, cloud computing vendors that offer certain big data processing services, such as Amazon.com, Inc., may expand their products and services and more effectively compete with us. Finally, some potential customers may elect to implement and self-support Hadoop deployments or other offerings similar to ours internally rather than purchasing them. Some of the companies that compete with us, or that may compete with us in the future, have greater name recognition, substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, the ability to devote greater resources to the promotion, sale and support of their solutions, more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships and longer operating histories than we have.. We expect competition to increase as other companies continue to evolve their offerings and as new companies enter our market. Increased competition is likely to result in pricing pressures on our offerings, which could negatively impact our gross margins. If we are unable to effectively compete, our revenue could decline and our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. The competitive position of our product offerings depends in part on the offerings' ability to operate with third-party products and services, including those of our partners, and if we are not successful in maintaining and expanding the compatibility of our product offerings with such products and services, our business will suffer.. The competitive position of our Connected Data Platforms, on-premises and cloud-based offerings depends in part on these offerings' ability to operate with products and services of third parties, including software companies that offer applications designed for various business intelligence applications, software services and infrastructure. As such, we must continuously modify and enhance our offerings to adapt to changes in hardware, software, networking, browser and database technologies. In the future, one or more technology companies,. 15. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. whether our partners or otherwise, may choose not to support the operation of their software, software services and infrastructure with our product offerings, or our offerings may not support the capabilities needed to operate with such software, software services and infrastructure. In addition, to the extent that a third party were to develop software or services that compete with our product offerings, that provider may choose not to support our product offerings. We intend to facilitate the compatibility of our product offerings with various third-party software, software services and infrastructure offerings by maintaining and expanding our business and technical relationships. If we are not successful in achieving this goal, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer.. If open source software programmers, many of whom we do not employ, or our own internal programmers do not continue to develop and enhance open source technologies, we may be unable to develop new technologies, adequately enhance our existing technologies or meet customer requirements for innovation, quality and price.. We rely to a significant degree on a number of independent open source software programmers, or Hadoop committers and contributors, to develop and enhance Apache Hadoop, Apache NiFi, Apache Metron and associated open source technologies. Additionally, members of the corresponding Apache Software Foundation Project Management Committees (\"PMCs\"), many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the oversight and evolution of the codebases of Hadoop and its related technologies. If the Hadoop committers and contributors fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, or if the PMCs fail to oversee and guide the evolution of Hadoop-related technologies in the manner that we believe is appropriate to maximize the market potential of our offerings, then we would have to rely on other parties, or we would need to expend additional resources, to develop and enhance our offerings. We also must devote adequate resources to our own internal programmers to support their continued development and enhancement of open source technologies, and if we do not do so, we may have to turn to third parties or experience delays in developing or enhancing open source technologies. We cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to these technologies would be available from reliable alternative sources. In either event, our development expenses could be increased and our technology release and upgrade schedules could be delayed. Delays in developing, completing or delivering new or enhanced offerings could cause our offerings to be less competitive, impair customer acceptance of our offerings and result in delayed or reduced revenue from our offerings.. Our subscription-based offerings may encounter customer resistance or we may experience a decline in the demand for our offerings.. We provide our support subscription offerings primarily under annual or multi-year subscriptions. A support subscription generally entitles a support subscription customer to a specified scope of support, as well as security updates, fixes, functionality enhancements and upgrades to the technology and new versions of the software, if and when available, and compatibility with an ecosystem of certified hardware and software applications. We may encounter support subscription customer resistance to this distribution model or support subscription customers may fail to honor the terms of our support subscription agreements. To the extent we are unsuccessful in promoting or defending this distribution model, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed.. Demand for our offerings may fluctuate based on numerous factors, including the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers and general economic conditions. In addition, our customers generally undertake a significant evaluation process that may result in a prolonged sales cycle. We spend substantial time, effort and money on our sales efforts, including developing and implementing appropriate go-to-market strategies and training our sales force and ecosystem partners in order to effectively market new solutions, without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. The purchase of our offerings may be discretionary and can involve significant expenditures. If our current and prospective support subscription customers cut costs, then they may significantly reduce their enterprise software expenditures.. 16. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. As technologies and the marketplace for our offerings change, our subscription-based offerings may meet resistance from our customers or demand may decline for other reasons. Consequently, we may need to develop new and appropriate marketing and pricing strategies for our solutions. If we are unable to adapt to changes in the marketplace or if demand for our offerings declines, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed.. If we are unable to expand sales to existing customers, our growth could be slower than we expect and our business and results of operations may be harmed.. Our future growth depends in part upon expanding sales of our support subscription, professional services, on-premises and cloud-based offerings to our existing customers. If our existing customers do not purchase additional or incremental support subscription or other offerings, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected, may not grow at all or may decline. Additionally, increasing incremental sales to our current customer base requires increasingly sophisticated and costly sales efforts. There can be no assurance that our efforts will result in increased sales to existing customers and additional revenue. If our efforts to expand sales to our existing customers are not successful, our business and operating results would be harmed.. Our future results of operations may fluctuate significantly, and our recent results of operations may not be a good indication of our future performance.. Our revenue and results of operations could vary significantly from period to period as a result of various factors, many of which are outside of our control. At the beginning of each quarter, we do not know the number of new customer arrangements that we will enter into during the quarter. In addition, the contract value of our support subscriptions and other offerings varies substantially among customers, and a single, large customer contract in a given period could distort our results of operations. Comparing our revenue and results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance.. We may not be able to accurately predict our future revenue or results of operations on a quarterly or longer-term basis. We base our current and future expense levels on our operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are expected to be relatively fixed in the short-term. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in cash flow or revenue, and even a small shortfall in revenue in a quarter could harm our financial results for that quarter and cause our financial results to fall short of analyst expectations, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline substantially.. In addition to other risk factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section, factors that may cause our results of operations to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include:. <U+0095>    the timing of new customer contracts and the extent to which we earn additional revenue and cash flow from existing customers as they expand their deployment of our Connected Data Platforms and other product offerings;. <U+0095>    the timing of recognizing the expense for contract acquisition costs, especially considering our current practice under the existing accounting standards and our current policy of expensing contract acquisition costs when incurred;. <U+0095>    the renewals of our support subscription and other arrangements with our customers;. <U+0095>    changes in the competitive dynamics of our market;. <U+0095>    customers delaying purchasing decisions in anticipation of new software or software enhancements;. <U+0095>    the timing of satisfying revenue recognition criteria, especially considering our lack of vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (\"VSOE\") for our support subscriptions and professional services offerings;. <U+0095>    our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses;. 17. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. <U+0095>    the proportion of revenue attributable to larger transactions as opposed to smaller transactions and the impact that a change in such proportion may have on the overall average selling price of our offerings;. <U+0095>    the proportion of revenue attributable to support subscription offerings and professional services, which may impact our gross margins and operating income;. <U+0095>    the reduction or elimination of support of various open source projects such as the Apache Hadoop Project, the Apache NiFi Project or the Apache Metron Project by the Apache Software Foundation, migration of open source technology to an organization other than the Apache Software Foundation, or any other actions taken by the Apache Software Foundation or Apache projects that may impact our business model;. <U+0095>    changes in customers' budgets and in the timing of their purchasing decisions;. <U+0095>    the collectability of receivables from customers and resellers, which may be hindered or delayed if these customers or resellers experience financial distress; and. <U+0095>    general economic conditions, both domestically and internationally, as well as economic conditions specifically affecting industries in which our customers participate.. Many of these factors are outside of our control, and the variability and unpredictability of such factors could result in our failing to meet or exceed our financial expectations for a given period. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue, results of operations and cash flows may not necessarily be indicative of our future performance.. Our sales cycle is long and unpredictable, particularly with respect to large support subscription customers, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense.. Our results of operations may fluctuate, in part, because of the resource-intensive nature of our sales efforts, the length and variability of the sales cycle of our offerings and the difficulty in making short-term adjustments to our operating expenses. Our results of operations depend in part on sales to large support subscription customers and increasing sales to existing customers. The length of our sales cycle, from initial evaluation to payment for our support subscription offerings, is generally six to nine months, but can vary substantially from customer to customer. Our sales cycle can extend to more than a year for some customers. It is difficult to predict exactly when, or even if, we will make a sale to a potential customer or if we can increase sales to our existing customers. As a result, large individual sales have, in some cases, occurred in quarters subsequent to those we anticipated, or have not occurred at all. The loss or delay of one or more large transactions in a quarter could impact our results of operations for that quarter and any future quarters for which revenue from that transaction is lost or delayed. As a result of these factors, it is difficult for us to forecast our revenue accurately in any quarter. Because a substantial proportion of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, our results of operations will suffer if revenue falls below our expectations in a particular quarter, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan or maintain high levels of service, and our financial results could be negatively impacted.. We have increased our number of full-time employees to approximately 1,175 as of December 31, 2017 from approximately 1,080 at December 31, 2016, and have increased our revenue to $261.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2017 from $184.5 million in the year ended December 31, 2016. Our recent growth and expansion has placed, and our anticipated growth may continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. We intend to continue to expand our overall business, customer base, headcount and operations. Continued growth increases the challenges involved in:. <U+0095>    recruiting, training and retaining sufficient skilled technical, marketing, sales and management personnel;. 18. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. <U+0095>    preserving our culture, values and entrepreneurial environment;. <U+0095>    developing and securing our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, compliance, recordkeeping, communications and other internal systems;. <U+0095>    managing our international operations and the risks associated therewith;. <U+0095>    maintaining high levels of satisfaction with our solutions among our customers; and. <U+0095>    effectively managing expenses related to any future growth.. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer.. Our future success depends in large part on the growth of the market for big data applications and an increase in the desire to ingest, store and process big data, and we cannot be sure that the market for big data applications will grow as expected or, even if such growth occurs, that our business will grow at similar rates, or at all.. Our ability to increase the adoption of our Connected Data Platforms, increase sales of support subscription, professional services, on-premises and cloud-based offerings and grow our business depends on the increased adoption of big data services and applications by enterprises. While we believe that big data services and applications can offer a compelling value proposition to many enterprises, the broad adoption of big data applications and services also presents challenges to enterprises, including developing the internal expertise and infrastructure to manage big data applications and services effectively, coordinating multiple data sources, defining a big data strategy that delivers an appropriate return on investment and implementing an information technology infrastructure and architecture that enables the efficient deployment of big data solutions. Accordingly, our expectations regarding the potential for future growth in the market for big data applications and services, and the third-party growth estimates for this market in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are subject to significant uncertainty. If the market for big data applications and services does not grow as expected, our business prospects may be adversely affected. Even if the market for big data applications and services increases, we cannot be sure that our business will grow at a similar rate, or at all.. Because of the characteristics of open source software, there are few technological barriers to entry into the open source market by new competitors, and it may be relatively easy for competitors, some of which may have greater resources than we have, to enter our markets and compete with us.. One of the characteristics of open source software is that anyone may modify and redistribute the existing open source software and use it to compete in the marketplace. Such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. It is possible for competitors with greater resources than ours to develop their own open source software, including software based on one or more components of our product offerings, potentially reducing the demand for and putting price pressure on our solutions. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competitive pressure or the availability of new open source software will not result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share, any one of which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our software development and licensing model could be negatively impacted if the Apache License, Version 2.0 is not enforceable or is modified so as to become incompatible with other open source licenses.. Our Connected Data Platforms have been provided under the Apache License 2.0. This license states that any work of authorship licensed under it, and any derivative work thereof, may be reproduced and distributed provided that certain conditions are met. It is possible that a court would hold this license to be unenforceable or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under the license.. 19. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Any ruling by a court that this license is not enforceable, or that open source components of our Connected Data Platforms may not be reproduced or distributed, may negatively impact our distribution or development of all or a portion of the platforms. In addition, at some time in the future it is possible that Apache Hadoop, Apache NiFi or Apache Metron may be distributed under a different license or the Apache License 2.0 may be modified, which could, among other consequences, negatively impact our continuing development or distribution of the software code subject to the new or modified license. Further, full utilization of our Connected Data Platforms may depend on applications and services from various third parties, and in the future these applications or services may not be available to our customers on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which could harm our business.. Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions for our services over the term of the subscription, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our results of operations.. We generally recognize subscription revenue from support subscription customers ratably over the term of their subscription agreements, which are generally 12 months, with some support subscription customers having subscription agreements with longer multi-year terms. As a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is derived from deferred revenue from subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in the value of new support subscription agreements entered into within any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue we record for that quarter and will harm our revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect this reduced revenue. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our services may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new support subscription customers is recognized over the applicable subscription term.. Any failure to offer high-quality support subscription offerings may harm our relationships with our support subscription customers and results of operations.. Once our Connected Data Platforms are deployed, our support subscription customers depend on our software support organization to resolve technical issues relating to the deployment. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in support subscription customer demand for support subscription offerings. We also may be unable to modify the format of our support subscription offerings to compete with changes in offerings provided by our competitors. Increased support subscription customer demand for our support subscription offerings, without corresponding revenue, could increase costs and harm our results of operations. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on our business reputation and on positive references from our existing support subscription customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality support subscription offerings, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support subscription offerings, could harm our reputation, our ability to sell our support subscription offerings to existing and prospective support subscription customers and our results of operations.. If we fail to comply with our customer contracts, our business could be harmed.. Any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts could result in various negative outcomes, which may include litigation, termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits and suspension of payments. Further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business and affect our ability to compete for new contracts. If our customer contracts are terminated, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed.. Our product offerings may contain errors that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our solutions and expose us to claims and litigation.. Despite our testing procedures, errors, including security vulnerabilities or incompatibilities with third-party software and hardware, have been and may continue to be found in our Connected Data Platforms, on-premises. 20. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. or cloud-based offerings after deployment. This risk is increased by the fact that much of the code in our product offerings is developed by independent parties over whom we may not exercise supervision or control. If errors are discovered, we may have to make significant expenditures of capital and devote significant technical resources to analyze, correct, eliminate or manage them, and we may not be able to successfully do so in a timely manner, or at all. Errors and failures in our product offerings could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our enterprise technologies, loss of existing or potential customers and delayed or lost revenue and could damage our reputation and our ability to convince enterprise users of the benefits of our offerings.. In addition, errors in our Connected Data Platform, on-premises or cloud-based offerings could cause system failures, loss of data or other adverse effects for our customers who may assert warranty and other claims for substantial damages against us. Furthermore, the mere allegation of such errors and adverse effects could expose us to warranty and other claims for substantial damages. Although our agreements with our customers often contain provisions that seek to limit our exposure to such claims, it is possible that these provisions may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions or may not significantly limit our exposure to certain claims. While we seek to insure against these types of claims, our insurance policies may not adequately limit our exposure to such claims or may not apply to certain claims. These claims, even if unsuccessful, could be costly and time consuming to defend and could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Incorrect or improper implementation or use of our product offerings could result in customer dissatisfaction and harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects.. Our Connected Data Platforms, on-premises and cloud-based offerings are deployed in a wide variety of technology environments, including in large-scale, complex technology environments, and we believe our future success will depend at least in part on our ability to support such deployments. The technology underlying our product offerings, such as Hadoop and NiFi, is very complicated, technically, and it is not easy to maximize the value of our offerings without proper implementation and training. We often must assist our customers in achieving successful implementations for large, complex deployments. If our customers are unable to implement our product offerings successfully, or in a timely manner, customer perceptions of our company and our offerings may be impaired, our reputation and brand may suffer, and customers may choose not to renew their subscriptions or increase their purchases of our support subscription offerings or professional services.. Our customers and partners may need training in the proper use of and the variety of benefits that can be derived from our Connected Data Platforms, on-premises and cloud-based offerings to maximize their potential, and our offerings may perform inadequately if they are not implemented or used correctly or as intended. The incorrect or improper implementation or use of our offerings, our failure to train customers on how to efficiently and effectively use them, or our failure to provide effective solutions to our customers may result in negative publicity or legal claims against us. Also, as we continue to expand our customer base, any failure by us to properly provide these services will likely result in lost opportunities for follow-on sales.. Interruptions or performance problems associated with our website and internal technology infrastructure may harm our business and results of operations.. Our website and internal technology infrastructure may experience performance issues due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, website or third-party hosting or cloud computing disruptions or capacity constraints due to a number of potential causes, including technical failures, natural disasters or fraud or security attacks. If our security is compromised, our website is unavailable or our users are unable to download our tools or order our offerings within a reasonable amount of time or at all, our business could be harmed. We expect to continue to make significant investments to maintain and improve website performance and to enable rapid releases of new features and applications for our offerings. To the extent that we do not effectively upgrade our systems as needed and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business and results of operations may be harmed.. 21. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. In addition, we rely on SaaS technologies from third parties in order to operate critical functions of our business, including financial management services from NetSuite Inc., customer relationship management services from salesforce.com, inc. and lead generation management services from Marketo, Inc. If these services become unavailable due to extended outages or interruptions or because they are no longer available on commercially reasonable terms or prices, our expenses could increase, our ability to manage our finances could be interrupted, our processes for managing sales of our offerings and supporting our customers could be impaired, and our ability to generate and manage sales leads could be weakened until equivalent services, if available, are identified, obtained and implemented, all of which could harm our business and results of operations.. We depend on our executive officers and other key employees, and the loss of one or more of these employees or an inability to attract and retain highly skilled employees could harm our business.. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key employees, including many Hadoop committers. We rely on our leadership team in the areas of research and development, operations, security, marketing, sales, support and general and administrative functions, and on individual contributors in our research and development. From time to time, there may be changes in our executive management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. We do not have employment agreements with our executive officers or other key personnel that require them to continue to work for us for any specified period and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more of our key employees or executive officers could harm our business.. In addition, to execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters is located, and in other locations where we maintain offices, is intense, especially for experienced sales professionals and for engineers experienced in designing and developing software and Apache Hadoop applications. The Apache Hadoop Project relies on Hadoop committers for the project's technical management. While we currently employ a large number of Hadoop core committers and innovators, one becomes a committer by invitation only. As a result, the market to hire such individuals is very competitive. If our employees who are Hadoop core committers terminate their employment with us, we could lose our ability to innovate the core open source technology, define the roadmap for the future of Hadoop, distribute predictable and reliable enterprise quality releases and provide comprehensive support to our customers. We have, from time to time, experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If we hire employees from competitors or other companies, their former employers may attempt to assert that these employees or we have breached legal obligations, resulting in a diversion of our time and resources. Finally, job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our equity awards declines, it may harm our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be harmed.. If we do not effectively expand and train our sales force, we may be unable to add new customers or increase sales to our existing customers, and if so, our business would be harmed.. We continue to be substantially dependent on our sales force to obtain new customers and to drive additional use cases among our existing customers. We believe that there is significant competition for sales personnel, including enterprise sales representatives, sales engineers and professional services employees, with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. In particular, there is significant demand for sales engineers with Hadoop expertise. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth. Recent changes to our sales leadership could adversely affect our ability to do so, which could have a negative impact on our sales productivity or sales execution. New hires require significant training and may take significant time before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become productive as quickly as we expect,. 22. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business or plan to do business. In addition, as we continue to grow rapidly, a large percentage of our sales force will have relatively little experience working with us, our offerings and our business model. If we are unable to hire and train sufficient numbers of effective sales personnel, or our sales personnel are not successful in obtaining new customers or increasing sales to our existing customer base, our business would be harmed.. Periodic changes to our sales organization could be disruptive and reduce our rate of growth.. We periodically adjust our sales organization in response to market opportunities, competitive threats, management changes, product introductions or enhancements, acquisitions, sales performance, increases in sales headcount, cost levels and other internal and external considerations. Any such future sales organization changes may result in a temporary reduction of productivity, which could negatively affect our rate of growth. In addition, any significant change to the way we structure the compensation of our sales organization may be disruptive and may affect our revenue growth.. If we are not successful in expanding our international business, we may incur additional losses and our revenue growth could be harmed.. Our future results depend, in part, on our ability to expand into international markets. We also have a number of distributor and reseller relationships for our offerings in international markets. Our ability to expand internationally will depend upon our ability to deliver functionality and foreign language translations that reflect the needs of the international clients that we target. Our ability to expand internationally involves various risks, including the need to invest significant resources in such expansion, and the possibility that returns on such investments will not be achieved in the near future or at all in these less familiar competitive environments. We may also choose to conduct our international business through strategic alliances. If we are unable to identify strategic alliance partners or negotiate favorable alliance terms, our international growth may be harmed. In addition, we have incurred and may continue to incur significant expenses in advance of generating material revenue as we attempt to establish our presence in particular international markets.. Expanding our business internationally will also require significant attention from our management and will require us to add additional management and other resources in these markets. Our ability to expand our business, attract talented employees and enter into strategic alliances in an increasing number of international markets requires considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems, regulatory systems, commercial infrastructures and technology infrastructure. If we are unable to grow our international operations in a timely manner, we may incur additional losses and our revenue growth could be harmed.. As we expand internationally, our business will become more susceptible to risks associated with international operations.. We sell our offerings through sales personnel in a variety of geographic regions, including North America, Asia Pacific, Europe and Latin America, and currently have operations in those same regions. We also have development teams and a number of distributor and reseller relationships for our offerings in other international markets. Conducting international operations subjects us to risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These risks include:. <U+0095>    fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. <U+0095>    unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements;. <U+0095>    potentially different pricing environments and longer sales cycles;. <U+0095>    difficulties in managing the staffing of international operations;. 23. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. <U+0095>    potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value-added tax systems, restrictions on the repatriation of earnings and changes in tax rates;. <U+0095>    dependence on strategic alliance partners to increase client acquisition;. <U+0095>    the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and different legal standards, including laws governing data practices and privacy;. <U+0095>    increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities;. <U+0095>    political, social and economic instability abroad, such as the United Kingdom's referendum in June 2016 in which voters approved an exit from the European Union and instability in Ukraine (where we have a development team);. <U+0095>    laws and business practices favoring local competitors;. <U+0095>    difficulties in staffing due to immigration or travel restrictions imposed by national governments;. <U+0095>    terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and. <U+0095>    reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries.. The occurrence of any one of these risks could harm our international business and, consequently, our results of operations. Additionally, operating in international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required to operate in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability.. The enactment of legislation implementing changes in the United States of taxation of international business activities or the adoption of other tax reform policies could materially impact our financial position and results of operations.. Recent changes to United States tax laws, including limitations on the ability of taxpayers to claim and utilize foreign tax credits and the deferral of certain tax deductions until earnings outside of the United States are repatriated to the United States, as well as changes to United States tax laws that may be enacted in the future, could impact the tax treatment of our foreign earnings. Due to expansion of our international business activities, any changes in the United States taxation of such activities may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. Changes in accounting principles and guidance could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects.. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with principles generally accepted in the United States. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to create and interpret appropriate accounting principles and guidance. A change in these principles or guidance, or in their interpretations, may have a material effect on our reported results, as well as our processes and related controls, and may retroactively affect previously reported results. For example, in May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) and Accounting Standards Codification 340-40, Other Assets and Deferred Costs; Contracts with Customers (the \"new standard\"). Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted the new standard using the modified retrospective approach. The new standard has significant impacts to the timing and amount of revenue recognized in future periods as compared to prior periods, as well as to the capitalization and amortization of contract acquisition costs (e.g., sales commissions).. We have made strategic acquisitions in the past and intend to do so in the future. If we are unable to find suitable acquisitions or partners, or to achieve expected benefits from such acquisitions or partnerships, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be harmed.. As part of our ongoing business strategy to expand our suite of solutions and acquire new technology, from time to time we engage in discussions with third parties regarding, and enter into agreements relating to, possible. 24. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. acquisitions, strategic alliances and joint ventures. For example, in April 2015, we acquired SequenceIQ Hungary Kft. (\"SequenceIQ\"), an open source provider of rapid deployment tools for Hadoop, located in Budapest, Hungary, and in August 2015, we acquired Onyara, a key contributor to Apache NiFi. There may be significant competition for acquisition targets in our industry, or we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate attractive terms for acquisitions or complete acquisitions on expected timelines, or at all. If we are unable to complete strategic acquisitions or do not realize the expected benefits of the acquisitions we do complete, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be harmed.. Even if we are able to complete acquisitions or enter into alliances and joint ventures that we believe will be successful, such transactions are inherently risky. Significant risks associated with these transactions, include:. <U+0095>    failing to achieve anticipated synergies, including with respect to complementary software or services;. <U+0095>    losing key employees of the acquired businesses;. <U+0095>    integration and restructuring costs, both one-time and ongoing;. <U+0095>    maintaining sufficient controls, policies and procedures, including around integration and accounting for acquisition-related expenses;. <U+0095>    diversion of management's attention from ongoing business operations;. <U+0095>    establishing new informational, operational and financial systems to meet the needs of our business;. <U+0095>    our inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of the businesses we acquire;. <U+0095>    uncertainty of entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which competitors have stronger market positions;. <U+0095>    our dependence on unfamiliar affiliates and partners of the companies we acquire;. <U+0095>    insufficient revenue to offset our increased expenses associated with acquisitions;. <U+0095>    potentially incurring accounting charges as we transition an acquired company to our business model;. <U+0095>    our responsibility for the liabilities of the businesses we acquire; and. <U+0095>    unanticipated and unknown liabilities.. If we are not successful in completing acquisitions in the future or do not realize the expected benefits of the acquisitions we do complete, we may be required to reevaluate our acquisition strategy. We also may incur substantial expenses and devote significant management time and resources in seeking to complete acquisitions, some of which may ultimately not be consummated or not result in expected benefits. The occurrence of any of these acquisition-related risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Our continued success depends on our ability to maintain and enhance strong brands.. We believe that the brand identities that we have developed have contributed significantly to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands is important to expanding our customer base and attracting talented employees. In order to maintain and enhance our brands, we may be required to make further investments that may not be successful. Maintaining our brands will depend in part on our ability to remain a leading innovator in open source technology and our ability to continue to provide high-quality offerings. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur excessive costs in doing so, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be harmed.. 25. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent third parties from misappropriating our intellectual property rights in our know-how, software and trademarks.. We have developed proprietary methodologies, know-how and software related to software development, testing, quality assurance and data migration and analysis. Failure to adequately protect and defend our intellectual property rights in these areas may diminish the value of our offerings, impair our ability to compete effectively and harm our business.. In addition, the protective steps we have taken in the past may be inadequate to protect and deter misappropriation of our intellectual property rights. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights in a timely manner. We have a registered copyright in China, have registered trademarks in North America, Asia Pacific, Europe and Latin America, and have issued patent claims in North America. We also have copyright, trademark and patent applications pending in various international jurisdictions. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which we offer or intend to distribute our solutions. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Failure to adequately protect our trademark rights could damage or even destroy one or more of our brands and impair our ability to compete effectively. Furthermore, defending or enforcing our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources.. We may be subject to intellectual property rights claims by third parties, which are extremely costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies.. Companies in the software and technology industries, including some of our current and potential competitors, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, many of these companies can dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights, and to defend claims that may be brought against them, than we can. We and open source software users or distributors have received notices claiming misappropriation, misuse or infringement of other parties' intellectual property rights. In the future, we, open source software users or distributors and Apache projects may receive similar notices. To the extent software developed within Apache projects gain greater market visibility, we, open source software users or distributors and Apache projects face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. In addition, we could be subject to lawsuits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software.. Any intellectual property infringement claims, with or without merit, could be very time-consuming, could be expensive to settle or litigate and could divert our management's attention and other resources. These claims could also subject us to significant liability for damages, potentially including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed patents or copyrights. These claims could also result in our having to stop using technology found to be in violation of a third-party's rights. We might be required to seek a license for the intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Even if a license were available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. As a result, we may be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. Any of these results would harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Federal, state, foreign government and industry regulations, as well as self-regulation related to privacy and data security concerns, pose the threat of lawsuits and other liability.. We collect and utilize certain demographic and other information, including personally identifiable information, from and about our employees and our users (such as customers, potential customers and others). Such information may be collected or accessed when our users visit our website or elect to use our support tools, or when they provide or allow access to personal information in many contexts such as when signing up for certain. 26. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. services, utilizing certain of our offerings, registering for seminars, participating in a survey, connecting with other users and Hadoop, NiFi and Metron experts in our forums, participating in Hortonworks University classes, participating in polls or signing up to receive e-mail newsletters.. Within the United States, various federal and state laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of the data we receive from and about employees and users. Outside of the United States, various jurisdictions actively regulate and enforce laws regarding the collection, retention, transfer and use (including loss and unauthorized access) of data and personal information. Privacy advocates and government bodies have increasingly scrutinized the ways in which companies link personal identities and data associated with particular users or devices with data collected through the internet, and we expect such scrutiny to continue to increase. In 2016, the European Commission adopted a new framework, the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield, which provides a mechanism for companies to transfer data from EU member states to the United States. This and other mechanisms may be reviewed by European courts, which may lead to uncertainty about transfers of personal data from EU member states to the United States. Also in 2016, the EU adopted a new law governing data practices and privacy called the General Data Protection Regulation (the \"GDPR\"), which becomes effective in May 2018. We are currently assessing the impact of the GDPR on our operations and undertaking remedial activities to comply with the requirements ahead of their taking effect. Loss, retention or misuse of certain information and alleged violations of laws and regulations relating to privacy and data security, and any relevant claims, may expose us to potential liability and may require us to expend significant resources on data security and in responding to and defending such allegations and claims.. Security and privacy breaches may hurt our business.. Any security breach, unauthorized access, unauthorized usage, virus or similar breach or disruption could result in the loss of confidential information, loss of confidence in the security of our services, damage to our reputation, early termination of our contracts, litigation, regulatory investigations, disruption of our business or other liabilities. If our, our customers', our partners', our third-party data center hosting facilities' or cloud computing platform providers' security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to data, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability.. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived security breach occurs, the market perception of our security measures could be harmed, and we could lose sales and customers. Any significant violations of data privacy could result in the loss of business, litigation and regulatory investigations and penalties that could damage our reputation and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, if a high-profile security breach occurs with respect to software from an open source project that we include in our product offerings, our customers and potential customers may lose trust in the security of our solutions generally, which could adversely impact our ability to retain existing customers or attract new ones.. Industry-specific regulations, standards and other requirements are evolving, and unfavorable industry-specific regulations, standards or other requirements could harm our customers and our business.. Our customers and potential customers conduct business in a variety of industries, including financial services, healthcare, telecommunications and the public sector. Regulators in certain industries have adopted and may in the future adopt regulations or interpretive positions regarding the use of cloud-based solutions. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, industry-specific laws, regulations and interpretive positions may limit our customers' use and adoption of our services. Compliance with these regulations may also require us to devote greater resources to support certain customers, which may increase costs and lengthen sales cycles. Further, if we are unable to comply with these regulations, our business may be harmed. In addition, an inability to satisfy the standards of certain voluntary third-party certification bodies that our customers may expect could. 27. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. have an adverse impact on our business and results. In some cases, industry-specific laws, regulations, standards or interpretive positions may also apply directly to us as a service provider. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with such requirements could have an adverse impact on our business.. Prolonged economic uncertainties or downturns could harm our business.. Economic downturns or negative conditions in the general economy both in the United States and abroad could harm our business and results of operations and cause a decrease in corporate spending on enterprise software in general.. General worldwide economic conditions have experienced, and in the future may experience, significant downturns. Fluctuations in economic conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers and us to forecast and plan future business activities accurately, and they could cause our customers to reevaluate their decision to purchase our offerings, which could delay and lengthen our sales cycles or result in cancellations of planned purchases. Furthermore, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues in gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could impair their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, which would harm our results of operations.. We have a significant number of customers in the business services, advertising, financial services, government, healthcare and pharmaceuticals, high technology, manufacturing, media and entertainment, oil and gas, online services, retail and telecommunications industries. A substantial downturn in any of these industries may cause firms to react to worsening conditions by reducing their capital expenditures in general or by specifically reducing their spending on information technology. Customers in these industries may delay or cancel information technology projects or seek to lower their costs by renegotiating vendor contracts. To the extent purchases of our offerings are perceived by customers and potential customers to be discretionary, our revenue may be disproportionately affected by delays or reductions in general information technology spending. Also, customers may choose to develop or utilize in-house self-support capabilities as an alternative to purchasing our other offerings. Moreover, competitors may respond to market conditions by lowering prices of their offerings. In addition, the increased pace of consolidation in certain industries may result in reduced overall spending on our offerings.. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown, instability or recovery, generally or within any particular industry. If the economic conditions of the general economy or industries in which we operate worsen from present levels, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be harmed.. The terms of the agreements governing our revolving credit facility restrict our current and future operations.. The agreements governing our revolving credit facility contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on indebtedness, liens, investments, acquisitions, mergers, disposition of property or assets, dividends and other distributions, changes to the nature of the business, transactions with affiliates, use of proceeds, amendments to organizational documents, and prepayment of certain debt.. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our revolving credit facility require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet them.. A breach of the covenants or restrictions under the agreements governing our revolving credit facility could result in an event of default. Such a default would affect the availability of the revolving credit facility. It may also allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In the event our lenders accelerate the repayment of our. 28. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness and, even if we do, we would no longer have access to that capital. As a result of these restrictions, we may be limited in how we conduct business, unable to raise additional debt or equity financing, or unable to compete effectively or take advantage of new business opportunities.. We and our subsidiaries may incur substantial amounts of debt in the future. This could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above.. We and our subsidiaries may incur significant indebtedness in the future, whether under our revolving credit facility or otherwise. Although the agreements governing our revolving credit facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial.. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all.. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new features or otherwise enhance our offerings, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing that we may secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms that are satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business may be harmed.. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, which could harm our results of operations.. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal and state and local tax net operating loss (\"NOL\") carryforwards of $525.3 million and $405.7 million, respectively, due to prior period losses. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its NOL carryforwards to offset future taxable income. Our existing NOL carryforwards may be subject to limitations arising from previous ownership changes, including in connection with our initial public offering (\"IPO\"), concurrent private placement or follow-on offering, and if we undergo an ownership change in the future, our ability to utilize NOL carryforwards could be further limited by Section 382 of the Code. Future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could. 29. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code. Furthermore, our ability to utilize NOL carryforwards of companies that we may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. There is also a risk that, due to regulatory changes, such as suspensions on the use of NOL carryforwards, eliminations of loss carrybacks and limitations on the use of future losses associated with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or other unforeseen reasons, some or all of our existing NOLs could expire or otherwise be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. For these reasons, we may not be able to realize a tax benefit from utilization of all of our NOLs, whether or not we attain profitability.. We have business and customer relationships with certain entities who are stockholders or affiliated with our directors, or both, and conflicts of interest may arise because of such relationships.. Some of our customers and other business partners are affiliated with certain of our directors or stockholders, or both. For example, we have entered into a strategic relationship and/or customer relationship with Red Hat, Inc. (\"Red Hat\"), and our director Paul Cormier is an employee of Red Hat. We believe that the transactions and agreements that we have entered into with related parties are on terms that are at least as favorable as could reasonably have been obtained at such time from third parties. However, these relationships could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our Board of Directors is faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and these other parties or their affiliates. In addition, conflicts of interest may arise between us and these other parties and their affiliates. The appearance of conflicts, even if such conflicts do not materialize, might adversely affect the public's perception of us, as well as our relationship with other companies and our ability to enter into new relationships in the future, including with competitors of such related parties, which could harm our business and results of operations.. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business.. Our corporate headquarters is located in Santa Clara, California, and we utilize data centers that are located in North America. Additionally, we rely on our network and third-party infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems and our website for our development, marketing, operational support, cloud-based services and sales activities. The West Coast of the United States contains active earthquake zones. In the event of a major earthquake, hurricane, or catastrophic event such as fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, war, or terrorist attack, we may be unable to continue our operations and may endure system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our application development, extended interruptions in our Connected Data Platforms, breaches of data security and loss of critical data, all of which could harm our future results of operations.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately or timely report our financial results or prevent fraud.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the \"Sarbanes-Oxley Act\") requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. A report of our management is included under Item 9A - \"Controls and Procedures\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. It is possible that in the process of such evaluation and testing, we may identify one or more material weaknesses. For example, during its evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, management identified a material weakness related to the control surrounding the recognition of revenue and deferred revenue for a subset of non-standard license transactions where post-contract support renewal rates were stated upon commencement of the arrangement. While management has concluded that the material weakness previously identified was remediated as of December 31, 2016, there can be no assurance that additional or other control deficiencies will not be identified in the future. If we experience a material weakness in our internal controls or fail to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, such circumstances could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our. 30. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. financial statements, or adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports when such report is required. Each of the foregoing results could cause stockholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information and lead to a decline in our stock price.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, resulting in substantial losses for our stockholders.. The trading price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile and could fluctuate widely regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. <U+0095>    actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations;. <U+0095>    the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections;. <U+0095>    failure of securities analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our company, changes in financial estimates and publication of other news by any securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors;. <U+0095>    ratings changes by any securities analysts who follow our company;. <U+0095>    announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments;. <U+0095>    changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular;. <U+0095>    price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole;. <U+0095>    changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles;. <U+0095>    actual or anticipated developments in our business or our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally;. <U+0095>    developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or our offerings, or third-party proprietary rights;. <U+0095>    announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors;. <U+0095>    new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws, or regulations applicable to our business;. <U+0095>    any major change in our Board of Directors or management;. <U+0095>    sales of shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders;. <U+0095>    lawsuits threatened or filed against us; and. <U+0095>    other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, or responses to these events.. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In particular, the trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in recent periods. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market. 31. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. volatility. We have in the past and may in the future face securities litigation, which may subject us to substantial costs, may divert resources and the attention of management from operating our business and may harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders beneficially own a significant percentage of our stock and may be able to exert significant influence over matters subject to stockholder approval.. As of March 7, 2018, our directors, officers, five percent or greater stockholders, and their respective affiliates beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 32 percent of our outstanding voting stock. These stockholders may be able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval. For example, these stockholders will be able to significantly influence the elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, and approval of any merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that you may feel are in your best interest as one of our stockholders.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our common stock.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that:. <U+0095>    authorize our Board of Directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, shares of undesignated preferred stock with terms, rights and preferences determined by our Board of Directors that may be senior to our common stock;. <U+0095>    require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent;. <U+0095>    specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our Board of Directors, the Chair of our Board of Directors, or our Chief Executive Officer;. <U+0095>    establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our Board of Directors;. <U+0095>    establish that our Board of Directors is divided into three classes: Class I, Class II and Class III, with each class serving three-year staggered terms;. <U+0095>    prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors;. <U+0095>    provide that our directors may be removed only for cause;. <U+0095>    provide that vacancies on our Board of Directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; and. <U+0095>    require the approval of our Board of Directors or the holders of at least seventy-five percent of our outstanding shares of capital stock to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation.. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board of Directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any \"interested\" stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an. 32. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. \"interested\" stockholder. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our management could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the federal securities laws, and we are taking advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies\" including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we intend to take advantage of certain of these exemptions. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. Section 107 of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act provides that an \"emerging growth company\" can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. However, we chose to \"opt out\" of such extended transition period, and as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. Our decision to opt out of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards is irrevocable.. We will remain an \"emerging growth company\" until the earliest of: (i) the last day of the fiscal year following the five-year anniversary of the completion of our IPO; (ii) the end of the fiscal year in which we have more than $1.07 billion in annual revenue; (iii) the end of the fiscal year in which we qualify as a \"large accelerated filer,\" with at least $700 million of equity securities held by non-affiliates as of the end of the second quarter of such fiscal year; and (iv) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities.. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management's attention and affect our ability to attract and retain executive management and qualified board members.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the listing requirements of the exchanges and other markets upon which our common stock is listed, and other applicable securities rules and regulations.. Compliance with these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming, or costly, and increase demand on our systems and resources, particularly after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\" The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and results of operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and, if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal control and procedures on a quarterly basis and we are required to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to formally audit and attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the date we are no longer an \"emerging. 33. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. growth company.\" As a result of the complexity involved in complying with the rules and regulations applicable to public companies, our management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business and results of operations. Although we have already hired additional employees to assist us in complying with these requirements, we may need to hire more employees in the future or engage outside consultants, which will increase our operating expenses. As we continue to grow rapidly, both organically and through strategic acquisitions, we expect to enhance our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, however, we cannot guarantee the adequacy of these enhancements, including integration and accounting for acquisition-related expenses.. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs, and making some activities more time-consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest substantial resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from business operations to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed.. Being a public company and these new rules and regulations will continue to make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and in the future, we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our Audit Committee and Compensation Committee, and qualified executive officers.. As a result of disclosure of information in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, our business and financial condition has become more visible, which we believe may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. If such claims are successful, our business and results of operations could be harmed, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and harm our business and results of operations.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, so any returns will be limited to changes in the value of our common stock.. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business, and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the increase, if any, of our stock price, which may never occur.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If few securities analysts cover us, or if industry analysts cease coverage of us, the trading price for our common stock would be negatively affected. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our common stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which might cause our common stock price and trading volume to decline.. 34. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall.. Additional sales of our common stock in the public market, particularly sales by our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As of December 31, 2017, we had 72,756,312 shares of common stock outstanding, which excludes any shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants and options outstanding as of such date. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, there were outstanding options and warrants to purchase 8,216,813 shares of our common stock. These options and warrants, if exercised, will result in these additional shares becoming available for sale. Sales by these stockholders, option holders or warrant holders of a substantial number of shares could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Moreover, some holders of shares of our common stock have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the shares they currently hold, or to include these shares in registration statements that we might file for ourselves or other stockholders.. Additionally, the shares of common stock subject to outstanding restricted stock unit (\"RSU\") and performance-based restricted stock unit awards under our equity incentive plans and the shares reserved for future issuance under our equity incentive plans may become eligible for sale in the public market in the future, subject to certain legal and contractual limitations.. Our charter documents designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and consented to the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation described above. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations."
