[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face but are risks we believe are material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, also may impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, prospects or ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected and the value of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the risks described below, the information contained under the heading \"Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements\" and the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding whether to invest in our securities.. Risks Related to Our Business. The U.S. economy is cyclical; a general slowing of the U.S. economy or recession will negatively and adversely impact our business.. Our properties are operated in two segments of the economy, the hotel industry and the travel center industry, which historically have been highly sensitive to general economic conditions in the United States. The U.S. Federal Reserve policy regarding the timing and amount of future increases in interest rates and changing U.S. and other countries' trade policies may hinder the growth of the U.S. economy. It is unclear whether the U.S. economy will be able to withstand these challenges and continue sustained growth. Economic weakness in the U.S. economy generally or a new U.S. recession would likely adversely affect our financial condition and that of our managers and tenants, could adversely impact the ability of our managers and tenants to renew our management agreements and leases or pay returns and rents to us, and may cause the values of our properties and of our securities to decline.. The performance of the hotel industry has historically been closely linked to the performance of the general economy. The hotel industry is sensitive to business and consumer discretionary spending levels. Declines in corporate travel budgets and demand by individuals for hotel accommodations due to adverse general economic conditions, such as declines in U.S. gross domestic product, lower consumer confidence or adverse political conditions may reduce the revenues and profitability at hotels. Another global economic downturn may lead to a significant decline in demand for products and services provided by our hotels. We cannot predict the pace or duration of the national economic cycles or the cycles which may be experienced in the hotel industry. A period of economic weakness would likely have an adverse impact on revenues realized from our hotel operations and negatively affect our financial condition, the value of our securities and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.. 32. Table of Contents. Our travel centers primarily provide goods and services to the trucking industry, and demand for trucking services in the United States generally reflects the amount of commercial activity in the U.S. economy. When the U.S. economy declines, demand for goods moved by trucks declines, and in turn demand for the products and services provided at our travel centers typically declines. Increases in global trade have historically mitigated the adverse impact of economic slowdowns upon the travel center business, but world trade was seriously and negatively impacted during the most recent U.S. recession and this slowing continues to adversely affect business at our travel centers. In addition, the Trump administration and members of the U.S. Congress have made public statements proposing significant changes in U.S. trade policy and have taken certain actions that may impact U.S. trade, including imposing tariffs on certain goods imported into the United States. Any changes in U.S. trade policy could trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries, resulting in \"trade wars,\" and in increased costs for goods imported into the United States, which may reduce customer demand for these products if the parties having to pay those tariffs increase their prices, or in trading partners limiting their trade with the United States. If these consequences are realized, the volume of economic activity in the United States, including trucking freight volume, may materially decline. Such a reduction may materially and adversely affect TA's sales and its business and, consequently, its ability to pay us rent. Further, recent improvements in U.S. export activity have been driven in large part by increased sales of natural resources, such as coal, and by other products that typically are not transported by trucks; and, accordingly, such increased export activity has not resulted in proportional increases in trucking activity within the United States.. Certain of our returns and rents are guaranteed by the parent companies of our managers and tenants, but these guarantees may not ensure that payments due to us will be made.. Certain of our returns and rents are guaranteed by the parent companies of our managers and tenants. However, most of these guarantees are limited in dollar amount and duration. For example, our guaranty from Marriott for 68 hotels under our Marriott No. 234 agreement is limited to $40.0 million (of which $30.7 million remained available at December 31, 2017) and expires on December 31, 2019; our guaranty from Hyatt is limited to $50.0 million (of which $21.1 million remained available at December 31, 2017); and our guaranty from Carlson is limited to $40.0 million (of which $33.4 million remained available at December 31, 2017). If our Marriott, Hyatt and Carlson properties produce less operating income than the guaranteed amounts of our minimum returns or rents for extended future periods, these guarantees may be exhausted. As of December 31, 2017, our $35.7 million limited guarantee from Wyndham was depleted. The Wyndham agreement provides that if the hotel cash flows available after payment of hotel operating expenses are less than the minimum returns due to us, to avoid default Wyndham is required to pay us the greater of the available hotel cash flows and 85% of the contractual amount due. During January and February 2018, Wyndham paid 85% of the minimum returns due under the management agreement, which payments were an aggregate of $689 less than the minimum returns due for these months. We can provide no assurance as to whether Wyndham will continue to pay at least the greater of available hotel cash flows and 85% of the minimum returns due to us or if Wyndham will default on its payments. Also, because the large majority of TA's business consists of operating travel centers that it leases from us, if TA does not earn sufficient income from those travel centers it may not have sufficient resources independent of these leaseholds to pay its guaranty obligations to us. Despite the existence of parent companies' guarantees of our managers' and tenants' obligations to us, we cannot be sure that these obligations will be paid.. Certain of our returns and rents are secured with cash deposits that, if used to cover shortfalls in our minimum returns and rents, will not provide cash flows to us.. As of December 31, 2017, our Marriott No. 234 agreement requires annual minimum returns to us of $106.5 million. As of December 31, 2017, we have a security deposit balance of $26.0 million to cover future shortfalls.. As of December 31, 2017, our InterContinental agreement requires annual minimum returns and rents to us of $189.3 million. As of December 31, 2017, we have a security deposit balance of $100.0 million to cover future shortfalls.. When we reduce the amounts of the security deposits we hold under our management and lease agreements for future payment deficiencies, although we record income equal to the amounts so applied, we do not receive additional cash flows equal to those amounts.. When and if the InterContinental security deposit and the Marriott guaranty and security deposit are exhausted, we may not receive the contractually guaranteed amounts or minimum returns due to us from InterContinental and Marriott, respectively.. We have no security deposits or guarantees under our Marriott No. 1, Sonesta or Morgans agreements and the Wyndham guaranty has been depleted. Accordingly, the returns and rents we receive from our hotels managed or leased under those agreements are dependent upon the financial results of those hotel operations. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we. 33. Table of Contents. had $26.8 million of unfunded shortfalls, which represents the unguaranteed portions of our minimum returns under our Sonesta agreement.. TA's business is subject to substantial risks, which could adversely affect us.. We lease all of our travel centers, which constitute approximately 36% of our historical real estate investments as of December 31, 2017, to TA.  TA has not been consistently profitable since it became a public company in 2007, and it operates in highly competitive industries, including travel centers, convenience stores and restaurants.  TA's business is subject to a number of risks, including the following:. • Increasing truck fuel efficiency may adversely impact TA's business. Government regulation and increasing fuel prices are causing truck manufacturers and TA's trucking customers to focus on fuel efficiency. The largest part of TA's business consists of selling motor fuel. If TA's trucking customers purchase less motor fuel because their trucks are operated more fuel efficiently, TA's financial results will decline unless it is sufficiently able to offset those declines by selling substitute or other products or services, gaining market share, increasing its gross margins per gallon of fuel sold or reducing its operating costs.. • TA's operating margins are narrow, and fuel sales comprise the majority of TA's revenues.  Historically, TA's fuel margins per gallon have declined during periods of rising fuel prices, and during the recent U.S. recession and periods of historically high and volatile fuel prices, TA realized large operating losses.. • The trucking industry is the primary customer for TA's goods and services. When the U.S. economy declines, demand for goods moved by trucks declines, and in turn demand for TA's products and services typically declines.. • TA's indebtedness and rent obligations are substantial. A decline in TA's revenues or an increase in its expenses may make it difficult or impossible for TA to make payments of interest and principal on its debt or meet all of its rent obligations. TA's substantial indebtedness and rent obligations may also place TA at a disadvantage in relation to competitors that have lower relative debt levels.. • Increasing fuel prices and fuel price volatility have various adverse impacts upon TA's business. For example, high fuel prices result in higher truck shipping costs, which causes shippers to consider alternative means for transporting freight and therefore reduces trucking business and, in turn, TA's business. Higher fuel prices may also result in less disposable income for TA's customers to purchase TA's non-fuel goods and services. Higher and more volatile fuel commodity prices increase the working capital needed to maintain TA's fuel inventory and receivables, and this increases TA's costs of doing business. Further, increases in fuel prices may place TA at a cost disadvantage to its competitors that may have larger fuel inventory or forward contracts executed during periods of lower fuel prices.. • Climate change and other environmental legislation and regulation, and market reaction to such legislation and regulation, may decrease demand for TA's major product, diesel fuel, and require TA to make significant changes to its business and to make capital or other expenditures, which may adversely affect its business.. • If the trucking industry fails to satisfy market demands for transporting goods, other means for transporting goods may be chosen, which may result in reduced business for the trucking industry and may negatively impact TA's business, results of operations and liquidity.. • To mitigate the risks arising from fuel price volatility, TA generally maintains limited fuel inventory.  Accordingly, an interruption in TA's fuel supplies, which may be caused by local conditions, such as a malfunction in a particular pipeline or terminal, by weather related events, such as hurricanes in the areas where petroleum or natural gas is extracted or refined, or by national or international conditions, such as government rationing, acts of terrorism, wars and the like, would materially adversely affect TA's business.. • TA's business is subject to laws relating to the protection of the environment. The travel centers and convenience stores TA operates include fueling areas, truck repair and maintenance facilities and tanks for the storage and dispensing of petroleum products, natural gas, waste and other hazardous substances, all of which create the potential for environmental damage. As a result, TA regularly incurs environmental clean up costs. TA cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations may be enacted or how existing laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted; more stringent laws, more vigorous enforcement policies or stricter interpretation of existing laws in the future could cause TA to expend significant amounts or experience losses.. 34. Table of Contents. • The travel center industry is highly competitive and principally consists of a small number of large competitors. These competitive pressures could result in a reduction of TA's gross margins or an increase in TA's expenses or capital improvement costs, which could negatively affect TA's profitability and liquidity.. • Increased use of efficient and alternative fuels and any widespread adoption of alternative transportation technologies may reduce demand for TA's products and services; for example, electronic or battery powered trucks may reduce the demand for petroleum based fuels which are TA's principal products or driverless trucks may reduce the number of people who are employed as professional drivers who are TA's principal customers.. • The convenience store and restaurant industries are also highly competitive and fragmented with ease of entry and constant change in the number and types of retailers offering products and services and restaurants similar to those TA provides. Increased competition or new entrants to the convenience store and restaurant industries could reduce TA's gross margins.. For these reasons, among others, TA may be unable to pay us rent, including the $150.0 million of deferred rent due to us in part in each of 2024, 2026, 2028, 2029 and 2030.. We expect to suffer some loss of rent as a result of our ownership of The Clift Hotel and our dispute with Morgans.. We lease the Clift Hotel in San Francisco, California to a subsidiary of Morgans. In December 2016, we notified Morgans that the closing of its merger with SBE Entertainment Group, LLC, or SBE, without our consent was a breach of its lease obligations and shortly thereafter we commenced an unlawful detainer action in the California state courts to compel Morgans and SBE to surrender possession of this hotel to us. We are currently pursuing this litigation and simultaneously having discussions with Morgans and SBE regarding this hotel. The outcome of this pending litigation and our discussions with Morgans and SBE is not assured, but we believe Morgans may surrender to us possession of this hotel or that the court will determine that Morgans and SBE have breached the lease. We also believe that this hotel may require substantial capital investment to remain competitive in its market. The continuation of our dispute with Morgans and SBE is causing us to incur legal fees. Litigation and discussions with tenants about defaults often produce unexpected results. Whatever these results may be, we believe that we may suffer some loss of future rent from this hotel, at least until this hotel is renovated and properly operated.. REIT distribution requirements and limitations on our ability to access reasonably priced capital may adversely impact our ability to carry out our business plan.. To maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains). Accordingly, we may not be able to retain sufficient cash to fund our operations, repay our debts, invest in our properties or fund our acquisitions or development or redevelopment efforts. Our business strategies therefore depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs. The volatility in the availability of capital to businesses on a global basis in most debt and equity markets generally may limit our ability to raise reasonably priced capital. We may also be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business, market perceptions of our prospects, the terms of our indebtedness or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. Because the earnings we are permitted to retain are limited by the rules governing REIT qualification and taxation, if we are unable to raise reasonably priced capital, we may not be able to carry out our business plan.. We have debt and we may incur additional debt.. As of December 31, 2017, our consolidated indebtedness was $4.0 billion, our consolidated net debt to gross book value of real estate ratio was 42.3% and we had $602.0 million available for borrowing under our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility. The agreement governing our revolving credit facility and our $400.0 million term loan, or our credit agreement, includes a feature under which the maximum aggregate borrowing availability may be increased to up to $2.3 billion on a combined basis in certain circumstances.. We are subject to numerous risks associated with our debt, including the risk that our cash flows could be insufficient for us to make required payments on our debt. There are no limits in our organizational documents on the amount of debt we may incur, and we may incur substantial debt. Our debt obligations could have important consequences to our securityholders. Our incurring debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, market and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, and place us at a disadvantage in relation to competitors that have lower debt levels. Excessive debt could limit our ability to obtain financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions,. 35. Table of Contents. construction projects, refinancing, lease obligations or other purposes and hinder our ability to maintain investment grade ratings from nationally recognized credit rating agencies or to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders.. If we default under any of our debt obligations, we may be in default under the agreements governing other debt obligations of ours which have cross default provisions, including our credit agreement and our senior unsecured notes indentures and their supplements. In such case, our lenders may demand immediate payment of any outstanding indebtedness and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process.. We may fail to comply with the terms of our credit agreement and our senior unsecured notes indentures and their supplements, which could adversely affect our business and may prevent our making distributions to our shareholders.. Our credit agreement and our senior unsecured notes indentures and their supplements include various conditions, covenants and events of default. We may not be able to satisfy all of these conditions or may default on some of these covenants for various reasons, including for reasons beyond our control. For example, our credit agreement and our senior unsecured notes indentures and their supplements require us to maintain certain debt service ratios. Our ability to comply with such covenants will depend upon the returns and rents we receive from our properties. If our returns and rents decline, we may be unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility. Complying with these covenants may limit our ability to take actions that may be beneficial to us and our securityholders.. If we are unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility, we may be unable to meet our obligations or grow our business by acquiring additional properties. If we default under our credit agreement, our lenders may demand immediate payment and may elect not to fund future borrowings. During the continuance of any event of default under our credit agreement, we may be limited or in some cases prohibited from making distributions to our shareholders. Any default under our credit agreement that results in acceleration of our obligations to repay outstanding indebtedness or in our no longer being permitted to borrow under our revolving credit facility would likely have serious adverse consequences to us and would likely cause the value of our securities to decline.. In the future, we may obtain additional debt financing, and the covenants and conditions which apply to any such additional debt may be more restrictive than the covenants and conditions that are contained in our credit agreement or our senior unsecured notes indentures and their supplements.. We may be unable to fund capital improvements and renovation costs at our properties and our capital projects may be disruptive to our operations and result in reduced revenues at the affected properties.. Some of our management agreements and lease arrangements require us to fund capital improvements at certain of our properties. We currently expect to invest approximately $231.6 million during 2018 for capital improvements and renovation costs under our agreements with Marriott, InterContinental, Sonesta, Wyndham, Carlson and TA. We may not have the funds necessary to make these investments, and such investments, if made, may not be sufficient to maintain or improve the financial performance of our properties. Our management agreements and lease arrangements require us to maintain the applicable properties in a certain required condition. If we fail to maintain these properties in the required condition, the manager or tenant may terminate the applicable management or lease agreement and hold us liable for damages.. In addition, renovation projects at our properties may require taking rooms out of service or closing down properties during the renovations, which could reduce revenues at the affected properties. During 2017, we had 41 comparable hotels under renovation for all or part of the year and these hotels experienced a 1.3% decrease in revenue per available room, or RevPAR, compared to the prior year, compared to a 1.6% increase in RevPAR compared to the prior year for those of our comparable hotels that were not under renovation during 2017.. Inherent risks in the hotel industry could affect our business.. Approximately 64% of our historical investments as of December 31, 2017, are in hotels.  Our hotels are subject to operating risks common to the hotel industry, many of which are beyond our control, including risks associated with:. • competition from other hotels in our markets, or an oversupply or over building of hotels in our markets;. • competition from alternative lodging options such as cruise ships, timeshares, vacation rentals or sharing services such as Airbnb, in our markets;. 36. Table of Contents. • changes in marketing and distribution for the industry including the ability of third party internet and other travel intermediaries to attract and retain customers;. • increased operating costs, including wages, benefits, insurance, property taxes and energy, due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset in the future by increased room rates;. • labor strikes, disruptions or lockouts that may impact operating performance;. • dependence on demand from business and leisure travelers, which may fluctuate and be seasonal;. • increases in energy costs, airline fares and other expenses related to travel, which may negatively affect traveling;. • decreases in demand for business and leisure travel due to terrorism, terrorism alerts and warnings, military actions, pandemics or other medical events; and. • changes in customer preferences for various types of hotels or hotel locations.. These and other factors could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and cause the value of our securities to decline.. We are limited in our ability to operate or manage our properties and are thus dependent on our managers and tenants.. Because federal income tax laws restrict REITs and their subsidiaries from operating or managing hotels or travel centers, we do not operate or manage our hotels or travel centers.  Instead, we lease our travel centers to TA and its subsidiaries and lease our hotels to operating companies or to our subsidiaries that qualify as TRSs under the IRC. We have retained third party managers to operate and manage our hotels that are leased to our subsidiaries.  Our income from our properties may be adversely affected if our managers or tenants fail to provide quality services and amenities to customers or if they fail to maintain quality services. While we monitor the performance of our managers and tenants and apply asset management strategies and discipline, we have limited recourse under our management agreements and leases if we believe that our managers or tenants are not performing adequately. Any failure by our managers or tenants to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements and leases could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our managers and tenants operate, and in some cases own or have invested in, properties that compete with our properties, which may result in conflicts of interest, and fees paid to our hotel managers are often set as a percentage of gross revenues rather than profits. As a result, our managers and tenants have made, and may in the future make, decisions regarding competing properties or our properties' operations that may not be in our best interests.. We have a high concentration of properties with a limited number of operators.. TA leases all of our travel centers, which constitute approximately 36% of our total historical real estate investments as of December 31, 2017, and two of our hotel managers, Marriott and InterContinental, operate approximately 18% and 21%, respectively, of our total historical real estate investments as of December 31, 2017.  If any of these operators were to fail to provide quality services and amenities or to maintain quality brands, our income from these properties may be adversely affected. Further, if we were required to replace any of our operators, we could experience significant disruptions in operations at the applicable properties, which could reduce our income and cash flows from, and the value of, those properties.. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us.. Since the most recent U.S. recession, the Board of Governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve System, or the U.S. Federal Reserve, has taken actions that have resulted in low interest rates for a long period of time. Since December 2016, the U.S. Federal Reserve has raised its benchmark interest rate by one percentage point, and there are some market expectations that market interest rates will rise further in the near to intermediate term. Market interest rates may continue to increase, and those increases may materially and negatively affect us in several ways, including:. • As noted above under the risk factor \"Current government policies regarding interest rates and trade policies may cause a recession,\" increasing market interest rates may cause a decline in general economic conditions and adversely impact our managers, tenants, hotels, travel centers and arrangements with our managers and tenants.. • Investors may consider whether to buy or sell our common shares based upon the distribution rate on our common shares relative to the then prevailing market interest rates. If market interest rates go up, investors may expect a. 37. Table of Contents. higher distribution rate than we are able to pay, which may increase our cost of capital, or they may sell our common shares and seek alternative investments that offer higher distribution rates. Sales of our common shares may cause a decline in the value of our common shares.. • Amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility and term loan require interest to be paid at variable interest rates. When interest rates increase, our interest costs will increase, which could adversely affect our cash flows, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, our cost of refinancing our fixed rate debts when they become due and our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders.. • Property values are often determined, in part, based upon a capitalization of rental income formula. When market interest rates increase, property investors often demand higher capitalization rates and that causes property values to decline. Increases in interest rates could lower the value of our properties and cause the value of our securities to decline.. Certain of our management agreements and leases limit our ability to sell or finance our properties.. Under the terms of certain of our management agreements and leases, we generally may not sell, lease or otherwise transfer the applicable property unless the transferee is not a competitor of the applicable manager or tenant and the transferee assumes the related management agreement or lease and meets other specified conditions. Our ability to finance or sell our properties, depending upon the structure of such transactions, may require a manager's or tenant's consent under the applicable agreement. If, in these circumstances, the manager or tenant does not consent, we may be prevented from taking actions which might be beneficial to our shareholders.. We may be unable to grow our business by acquisitions of additional properties.. Our business plans involve the acquisition of additional properties. Our ability to make profitable acquisitions is subject to risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with:. • competition from other investors, including publicly traded and private REITs, numerous financial institutions, individuals, foreign investors and other public and private companies;. • our long term cost of capital;. • contingencies in our acquisition agreements; and. • the availability and terms of financing.. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to our acquired properties. For example:. • we do not believe that it is possible to understand fully a property before it is owned and operated for a reasonable period of time, and, notwithstanding pre-acquisition due diligence, we could acquire a property that contains undisclosed defects in design or construction or which was not properly staffed;. • the market in which an acquired property is located may experience unexpected changes that adversely affect the property's value;. • the occupancy of and rents and returns from properties that we acquire may decline during our ownership;. • property operating costs for our acquired properties may be higher than anticipated and our acquired properties may not yield expected returns;. • we may acquire properties subject to unknown liabilities and without any recourse, or with limited recourse, such as liability for the clean up of undisclosed environmental contamination or for claims by tenants, vendors or other persons related to actions taken by former owners of the properties; and. • acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our other business activities.. 38. Table of Contents. For these reasons, among others, we might not realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions, and our business plan to acquire additional properties may not succeed or may cause us to experience losses.. We face significant competition.. We face significant competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, including publicly traded and private REITs, numerous financial institutions, operating companies in the hospitality industry, individuals, foreign investors and other public and private companies. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and other resources than us and may be able to accept more risk than we can prudently manage, including risks with respect to the creditworthiness of property operators and the extent of leverage used in their capital structure. Because of competition for acquisitions, we may be unable to acquire desirable properties or we may pay higher prices for, and realize lower net cash flows than we hope to achieve from, acquisitions.. Ownership of real estate is subject to environmental risks.. Ownership of real estate is subject to risks associated with environmental hazards. We may be liable for environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our properties, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing managers or tenants, abutters or other persons. Various federal and state laws impose liabilities upon property owners, including us, for environmental damages arising at, or migrating from, owned properties, and we may be liable for the costs of environmental investigation and clean up at, or near, our properties. As an owner or previous owner of properties, we also may be liable to pay damages to government agencies or third parties for costs and damages they incur arising from environmental hazards at, or migrating from, such properties. The costs and damages that may arise from environmental hazards are often difficult to project and may be substantial. Our hotel properties may be subject to environmental laws for certain hazardous substances used to maintain these properties, such as chemicals used to clean swimming pools, pesticides and lawn maintenance materials, and for other conditions, such as the presence of harmful mold.. In addition, we believe that some of our properties may contain asbestos. We believe any asbestos on our properties is contained in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and we have no current plans to remove it. If we removed the asbestos or demolished the affected properties, certain environmental regulations govern the manner in which the asbestos must be handled and removed, and we could incur substantial costs complying with such regulations.. Environmental liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition and result in losses.. Our travel centers include fueling areas, truck repair and maintenance facilities and tanks for the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous substances, all of which create the potential for environmental contamination. As a result, TA regularly incurs environmental clean up costs. Under the leases that we entered with TA, TA agreed to indemnify us from all environmental liabilities arising at any travel centers during the term of the leases. Despite this indemnity, various federal and state laws impose environmental liabilities upon property owners, such as us, for any environmental damages arising at, or migrating from, properties they own and we cannot be sure that we will not be liable for environmental investigation and clean up at, or near, our properties. Moreover, TA may not have sufficient resources to pay its environmental liabilities and environmental indemnity to us. The negative impact on TA of the most recent U.S. recession, volatility in the petroleum markets, industry challenges facing the trucking industry and TA's business and other factors may make it more likely that TA will be unable to fulfill its indemnification obligations to us in the event that environmental claims arise at our travel centers. Any environmental liabilities for which we are responsible and not indemnified could adversely affect our financial condition and result in losses.. Ownership of real estate is subject to climate change and adverse weather risks.. Some observers believe severe weather in different parts of the world over the last few years is evidence of global climate change. Severe weather may have an adverse effect on certain properties we own. Flooding caused by rising sea levels and severe weather events, including hurricanes, tornadoes and widespread fires, may have an adverse effect on properties we own and result in significant losses to us and interruption of our business. Also, the political debate about climate change has resulted in various treaties, laws and regulations that are intended to limit carbon emissions. These or future laws may cause operating costs at our properties to increase. Laws enacted to mitigate climate change may make some of our buildings obsolete or require us to make material investments in our properties which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and cause the value of our securities to decline.. 39. Table of Contents. Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities.. In addition to the risks discussed above, our business is subject to other risks associated with real estate ownership, including:. • the illiquid nature of real estate markets, which limits our ability to sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing market conditions;. • the subjectivity of real estate valuations and changes in such valuations over time;. • costs that may be incurred relating to property maintenance and repair, and the need to make expenditures due to changes in government regulations; and. • liabilities and litigations arising from injuries on our properties or otherwise incidental to the ownership of our properties.. Real estate construction and redevelopment creates risks.. Our business may involve the development of new properties or the redevelopment of some of our existing properties as the existing management agreements or leases expire, or as our managers' or tenants' needs change or to pursue any other opportunities that we believe are desirable. The development and redevelopment of new and existing buildings involves significant risks in addition to those involved in the ownership and operation of properties, including the risks that construction may not be completed on schedule or within budget, resulting in increased construction costs and delays in such properties generating cash flows. Development activities are also subject to risks relating to the inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy, and other required government permits and authorizations. Once completed, any new properties may perform below anticipated financial results. The occurrence of one or more of these circumstances in connection with our development or redevelopment activities could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the value of our securities.. RMR LLC and our hotel managers rely on information technology and systems in their operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology or those systems could materially and adversely affect us.. RMR LLC and our hotel managers rely on information technology and systems, including the Internet and commercially available software, to process, transmit, store and safeguard information and to manage or support a variety of their business processes (including managing our building systems), including financial transactions and maintenance of records, which may include personal identifying information of employees, guests and tenants and lease data. If RMR LLC or any of our hotel managers experiences material security or other failures, inadequacies or interruptions of its information technology, it could incur material costs and losses and our operations could be disrupted as a result. Further, third party vendors could experience similar events with respect to their information technology and systems that impact the products and services they provide to RMR LLC, our hotel managers or us. RMR LLC and our hotel managers rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring, as well as their internal procedures and personnel, to provide security for processing, transmitting, storing and safeguarding confidential guest, tenant, customer and vendor information, such as personally identifiable information related to their employees and others, including in our hotel managers' case, guests, and information regarding their and our financial accounts. RMR LLC and each of our hotel managers takes various actions, and incurs significant costs, to maintain and protect the operation and security of its information technology and systems, including the data maintained in those systems. However, it is possible that these measures will not prevent the systems' improper functioning or a compromise in security, such as in the event of a cyberattack or the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information.. Security breaches, computer viruses, attacks by hackers, online fraud schemes and similar breaches can create significant system disruptions, shutdowns, fraudulent transfer of assets or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. For example, in June 2017, we and RMR LLC became aware that we and RMR LLC had been victim of criminal fraud in which a person pretending to be a representative of a seller in one of our property acquisition transactions provided fraudulent money wire instructions that caused money to be wire transferred to an account that was believed to be, but was not, the seller's account. Although RMR LLC reimbursed us and we did not incur any loss as a result, there may be a risk that similar fraudulent activities could be attempted against us, RMR LLC or others with respect to assets. The cybersecurity risks to RMR LLC, our hotel managers and third party vendors are heightened by, among other things, the evolving nature of the threats faced, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography and new and increasingly sophisticated. 40. Table of Contents. methods used to perpetuate illegal or fraudulent activities against RMR LLC or our hotel managers, including cyberattacks, email or wire fraud and other attacks exploiting security vulnerabilities in RMR LLC's, our hotel managers' or other third parties' information technology networks and systems or operations. Any failure to maintain the security, proper function and availability of RMR LLC's or our hotels managers' information technology and systems, or certain third party vendors' failure to similarly protect their information technology and systems that are relevant to RMR LLC's, our hotel managers' or our operations, or to safeguard RMR LLC's, our hotel managers' or our business processes, assets and information could result in financial losses, interrupt RMR LLC's or our hotel managers' operations, damage RMR LLC's or our hotel managers' reputation, cause RMR LLC or our hotel managers to be in default of material contracts and subject RMR LLC or our hotel managers to liability claims or regulatory penalties. Any or all of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business and the value of our securities.. We currently own some properties located outside the United States and may consider additional investments outside this country in the future, and such investments create risks.. We currently own two hotels in Canada. If we make other investments in real estate outside the United States, we will face risks arising from those investments, including:. • Laws affecting the operations of hotels in foreign countries may require us to assume responsibility for payments due to employees of hotels we own or in which we invest.. • Foreign laws affecting real estate may restrict the ability of entities organized or controlled by persons outside those countries, like us, to own or make management decisions affecting the properties in which we invest.. • In most foreign countries, we will not have the same or similar tax status as we have in the United States, we will be subject to local taxes, and our net earnings may be less than we would realize by making investments in the United States.. • Most of the hotels located in foreign countries in which we would invest will conduct business in local currencies rather than in U.S. dollars. We may be able to mitigate some of the risk of changing comparative currency valuations by funding our foreign investments in local currencies; however, it is unlikely we will be able to completely mitigate such foreign currency exchange rate risk.. • Some foreign countries do not have judicial dispute resolution processes which are as efficient or impartial as the U.S. judicial system generally.  We may mitigate this risk by making the resolution of disputes which may arise from our foreign investments subject to arbitration; however, the enforcement of arbitration awards will remain subject to local judicial processes and there may be no way for us to mitigate the risks of our dealings in a foreign legal system.. • Investments by U.S. entities like us in foreign countries may be particularly subject to terrorism risks as it relates to the ownership of prominently identified properties such as hotels.. • The political systems in certain foreign countries are less stable than in the United States, and certain foreign governments have in the past expropriated properties owned by U.S. entities like us without paying fair compensation.. Although we will attempt to balance the potential rewards of future investments in foreign countries against these and other risks, we may not be successful in doing so and investments we make in real estate located in foreign countries may result in material losses.. Insurance may not adequately cover our losses.. We or our managers and tenants are generally responsible for the costs of insurance coverage for our properties, including for casualty, liability, fire and extended coverage. Losses of a catastrophic nature, such as those caused by hurricanes, flooding, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes, among other things, may be covered by insurance policies with limitations such as large deductibles or co-payments that we, our managers or a responsible tenant may not be able to pay. Insurance proceeds may not be adequate to restore an affected property to its condition prior to a loss or to compensate us for our losses, including the loss of future revenues from an affected property. Similarly, our other insurance, including our general liability insurance, might not provide adequate insurance to cover our losses.. 41. Table of Contents. We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws.. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act and certain similar state statutes, many commercial properties must meet specified requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures at our properties to comply with these laws. In addition, non-compliance could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages and costs to private litigants. These expenditures may have an adverse impact on our financial results and the value of our securities.. We are subject to risks associated with our hotel managers' employment of personnel.. Our hotel managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotel properties. Although we do not directly employ or manage employees at our hotel properties, we are subject to many of the costs and risks associated with the hotel labor force. From time to time, hotel operations may be disrupted as a result of strikes, lockouts, public demonstrations or other negative actions and publicity. We may also incur increased legal costs and indirect labor costs as a result of contract disputes and other events. The resolution of labor disputes or renegotiated labor contracts could lead to increased labor costs, either by increases in wages or benefits or by changes in work rules.. Consolidation of hotel managers through merger and acquisition transactions may adversely affect our hotel properties.. Consolidation of third party managers could adversely affect our hotel properties due to the undefined and unknown costs associated with the integrations of property-level point of sale and back-of-house computer systems and other technology related processes, the training and other labor costs associated with merging of labor forces, and the impact of hotel reward point program consolidation. Additionally, the consolidation of third party managers may negatively impact the terms we are able to obtain in future hotel operating agreements.. Our business could be adversely impacted if there are deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting.. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weaknesses, in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting could result in misstatements of our results of operations or our financial statements or could otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. Changes in lease accounting standards may materially and adversely affect us.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, adopted new accounting rules to be effective for fiscal years ending after December 2018, which will require companies to capitalize substantially all leases on their balance sheets by recognizing a lessee's rights and obligations. When the final rules are effective, many companies that account for certain leases on an \"off balance sheet\" basis will be required to account for such leases \"on balance sheet.\"  This change will remove many of the differences in the way companies account for owned property and leased property and could have a material effect on various aspects of our tenants' businesses, including the appearance of their credit quality and other factors they consider in deciding whether to own or lease properties. When the rules are effective, or as the effective date approaches, these rules could cause companies that lease properties to prefer shorter lease terms in an effort to reduce the leasing liability required to be recorded on their balance sheets or some companies may decide to prefer property ownership to leasing. Such decisions by our current or prospective tenants may adversely impact our business and the value of our securities.. Risks Related to Our Relationships with RMR Inc., RMR LLC, Sonesta and TA.. We are dependent upon RMR LLC to manage our business and implement our growth strategy.. We have no employees. Personnel and services that we require are provided to us by RMR LLC pursuant to our management agreements with RMR LLC. Our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on RMR LLC and its ability to manage our properties, identify and complete our acquisitions and dispositions and to execute our growth strategy. Accordingly, our business is dependent upon RMR LLC's business contacts, its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage its personnel and its ability to maintain its operating systems. If we lose the services provided by RMR LLC or its key. 42. Table of Contents. personnel, our business and growth prospects may decline. We may be unable to duplicate the quality and depth of management available to us by becoming internally managed or by hiring another manager. In the event RMR LLC is unwilling or unable to continue to provide management services to us, our cost of obtaining substitute services may be greater than the fees we pay RMR LLC under our management agreements, and as a result our expenses may increase.. Our management structure and agreements and relationships with RMR LLC and RMR LLC's and its controlling shareholder's relationships with others may create conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts, and may restrict our investment activities.. Our manager, RMR LLC, is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines and, therefore, has discretion in determining the properties that will be appropriate investments for us, as well as our individual operating and investment decisions. Our Board of Trustees periodically reviews our operating and investment guidelines and our operating activities and investments but it does not review or approve each decision made by RMR LLC on our behalf. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Trustees relies primarily on information provided to it by RMR LLC.. RMR LLC is a subsidiary of RMR Inc. Our Managing Trustee, Adam Portnoy, as the current sole trustee of ABP Trust, is the controlling shareholder of RMR Inc. and as the current sole trustee of ABP Trust beneficially owns all the class A membership units of RMR LLC not owned by RMR Inc. Adam Portnoy is a managing director, president and chief executive officer of RMR Inc. and an officer of RMR LLC. Barry Portnoy was our other Managing Trustee and a managing director and an officer of RMR Inc. and an officer of RMR LLC until his death on February 25, 2018. Ethan Bornstein, our Senior Vice President, is the son-in-law of Barry Portnoy and the brother-in-law of Adam Portnoy. RMR LLC or its subsidiary also acts as the manager for five other Nasdaq listed REITs: GOV, which primarily owns properties that are majority leased to government tenants and office properties in the metropolitan Washington, D.C. market area that may also be leased to private sector tenants; ILPT, which primarily owns industrial and logistics properties; SIR, which primarily owns and invests in net leased, single tenant properties; SNH, which primarily owns healthcare, senior living properties and medical office buildings; and TRMT, which primarily originates and invests in first mortgage loans secured by middle market and transitional commercial real estate. RMR LLC also provides services to other publicly and privately owned companies, including: Five Star, which operates senior living communities; TA, our largest tenant; and Sonesta, which managed 49 of our hotels as of December 31, 2017. A subsidiary of RMR LLC is an investment adviser to the RMR Real Estate Income Fund, or RIF, a closed end investment company listed on the NYSE American, which primarily invests in securities of REITs that are not managed by RMR LLC.. Each of our executive officers is also an officer of RMR LLC, including our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, Mark Kleifges, who is also the chief financial officer and treasurer of GOV and of RIF. Because our executive officers have duties to RMR LLC, and Mark Kleifges has duties to GOV and RIF, as well as to us, we do not have their undivided attention. They may have conflicts in allocating their time and resources between us and RMR LLC and other companies to which RMR LLC provides services. Our Independent Trustees also serve as independent directors or independent trustees of other companies to which RMR LLC or its subsidiary provides management services.. In addition to their investments in RMR Inc. and RMR LLC, our current and former Managing Trustees hold equity investments in other companies to which RMR LLC provides management services and some of these companies, including us, have significant cross ownership interests, including, for example: as of February 23, 2018, our Managing Trustee and Barry Portnoy, our former Managing Trustee, owned, directly or indirectly, in aggregate 1.5% of our outstanding common shares, 36.4% of Five Star's outstanding common stock, 1.9% of GOV's outstanding common shares, 1.3% of SNH's outstanding common shares, 1.9% of SIR's outstanding common shares and 10.7% of RIF's outstanding common shares; we own 8.6% of TA's outstanding common shares; GOV owns 27.8% of SIR's outstanding common shares; SIR owns 69.2% of ILPT's outstanding common shares; SNH owns 8.4% of Five Star's outstanding common stock; and Tremont Realty Advisors LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of RMR LLC, owns 19.2% of TRMT's outstanding common shares. Our executive officers may also own equity investments in other companies to which RMR LLC or its subsidiary provides management services. These multiple responsibilities, relationships and cross ownerships could create competition for the time and efforts of RMR LLC, Adam Portnoy and other RMR LLC personnel, including our executive officers, and give rise to conflicts of interest or the appearance of such conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, RMR Inc., RMR LLC, our Managing Trustee, the other companies to which RMR LLC or its subsidiaries provide management services and their related parties. Conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business and the market price of our common shares and other securities and we may be subject to increased risk of litigation as a result.. In our management agreements with RMR LLC, we acknowledge that RMR LLC may engage in other activities or businesses and act as the manager to any other person or entity (including other REITs) even though such person or entity has investment policies and objectives similar to our policies and objectives and we are not entitled to preferential treatment in receiving information, recommendations and other services from RMR LLC. Accordingly, we may lose investment. 43. Table of Contents. opportunities to, and may compete for tenants with, other businesses managed by RMR LLC or its subsidiaries. We cannot be sure that our Code of Conduct or our Governance Guidelines, or other procedural protections we adopt will be sufficient to enable us to identify, adequately address or mitigate actual or alleged conflicts of interest or ensure that our transactions with related persons are made on terms that are at least as favorable to us as those that would have been obtained with an unrelated person.. Our management agreements were not negotiated on an arm's length basis and their fee structure may not create proper incentives for RMR LLC, which may increase the risk of an investment in our common shares.. As a result of our relationships with RMR LLC, our management agreements were not negotiated on an arm's length basis between unrelated parties, and therefore the terms, including the fees payable to RMR LLC, may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if they were negotiated on an arm's length basis between unrelated parties. Our property management fees are calculated based on rents we receive and construction supervision fees for construction at our properties overseen and managed by RMR LLC, and our base business management fee is calculated based upon the lower of the historical costs of our real estate investments and our market capitalization. These fee arrangements could incentivize RMR LLC to pursue acquisitions, capital transactions, tenancies and construction projects or to avoid disposing of our assets in order to increase or maintain its management fees. If we do not effectively manage our investment, disposition and capital transactions and leasing, construction and other property management activities, we may pay increased management fees without proportional benefits to us. In addition, we pay RMR LLC substantial base management fees regardless of our financial results. RMR LLC's entitlement to a base management fee might reduce its incentive to devote its time and effort to seeking investments that provide attractive returns for us.. The termination of our management agreements may require us to pay a substantial termination fee, including in the case of a termination for unsatisfactory performance, which may limit our ability to end our relationship with RMR LLC.. The terms of our management agreements with RMR LLC automatically extend on December 31st of each year so that such terms thereafter end on the 20th anniversary of the date of the extension. We have the right to terminate these agreements: (1) at any time on 60 days' written notice for convenience, (2) immediately upon written notice for cause, as defined in the agreements, (3) on written notice given within 60 days after the end of any applicable calendar year for a performance reason, as defined in the agreements, and (4) by written notice during the 12 months following a manager change of control, as defined in the agreements. However, if we terminate a management agreement for convenience, or if RMR LLC terminates a management agreement with us for good reason, as defined in such agreement, we are obligated to pay RMR LLC a termination fee in an amount equal to the sum of the present values of the monthly future fees, as defined in the applicable agreement, payable to RMR LLC for the then remaining term, which, depending on the time of termination, would be between 19 and 20 years. Additionally, if we terminate a management agreement for a performance reason, as defined in the agreement, we are obligated to pay RMR LLC the termination fee calculated as described above, but assuming a remaining term of 10 years. These provisions substantially increase the cost to us of terminating the management agreements without cause, which may limit our ability to end our relationship with RMR LLC as our manager. The payment of the termination fee could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, including our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.. Our management arrangements with RMR LLC may discourage a change of control of us.. Our management agreements with RMR LLC have continuing 20 year terms that renew annually. As noted in the preceding risk factor, if we terminate either of these management agreements other than for cause or upon a change of control of our manager, we are obligated to pay RMR LLC a substantial termination fee. For these reasons, our management agreements with RMR LLC may discourage a change of control of us, including a change of control which might result in payment of a premium for our common shares.. Our business dealings with TA and Sonesta comprise a significant part of our business and operations and they may create conflicts of interest or the perception of such conflicts of interest.. TA is our former 100% owned subsidiary and our largest tenant, and we are TA's largest shareholder. TA was created as a separate public company in 2007 as a result of its spin-off from us. Our Managing Trustee serves as a managing director of TA and RMR LLC provides management services to both us and TA. Barry Portnoy served as a managing director of TA until his death on February 25, 2018. We recognized rental income of $293.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 under our TA leases.. 44. Table of Contents. Sonesta managed 49 of our hotels as of December 31, 2017. Sonesta is owned in part by our Managing Trustee. Sonesta's chief executive officer and chief financial officer are officers of RMR LLC, and other officers and employees of Sonesta are former employees of RMR LLC. We realized returns of $70.6 million under our Sonesta agreement and incurred management, system and reservation fees payable to Sonesta of $28.2 million and procurement and construction supervision fees of $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017.. The historical and continuing relationships which we, RMR LLC and our Managing Trustee have with TA and Sonesta could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, the other companies to which RMR LLC or its subsidiaries provide management services and their related parties. As a result of these relationships, our agreements with TA and Sonesta were not negotiated on an arm's length basis between unrelated parties, and therefore may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if they were negotiated on an arm's length basis between unrelated parties. Conflicts of interest or the perception of conflicts of interest could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business and the market price of our common shares and other securities and we may be subject to increased risk of litigation as a result.. We may not realize the expected benefits of our acquisition of an interest in RMR Inc.. On June 5, 2015 we participated in a transaction with RMR Inc., RMR LLC, ABP Trust, and three other REITs to which RMR LLC provides management services in which, among other things, we acquired 5,019,121 shares of RMR Inc.'s class A common stock, ABP Trust acquired 1,490,000 of our common shares and we amended our management agreements with RMR LLC and extended them for continuing 20 year terms, or the Up-C Transaction. In December 2015, we distributed 2,515,344 of the shares of RMR Inc.'s class A common stock that we received in the Up-C Transaction pro rata to our shareholders. We believe the Up-C Transaction provided several benefits to us, including an attractive investment in the equity securities of RMR Inc., the further alignment of the interests of RMR LLC and Adam Portnoy with our interests and greater transparency for us and our shareholders into the compensation practices and financial and operating results of RMR LLC. However, our investment in RMR Inc. is subject to various risks, including the highly competitive nature of RMR LLC's business and the limited public market for RMR Inc.'s securities, among others, which may result in us losing some or all of our investment in RMR Inc. or otherwise not realizing the benefits we expect from the Up-C Transaction. For further information on the Up-C Transaction, see Note 10 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The Up-C Transaction and the agreements entered into as part of the Up-C Transaction are among related persons, which increases the risk of allegations of conflicts of interest, and such allegations may impair our ability to realize the benefits we expect from the Up-C Transaction.. Because of the various relationships among us, RMR Inc., RMR LLC and the other REITs to which RMR LLC provides management services, the Up-C Transaction and the agreements entered into as part of the Up-C Transaction, including the amendment and extension of our management agreements for continuing 20 year terms, are among related persons. The Up-C Transaction and the terms thereof were negotiated and reviewed by a Joint Special Committee comprised solely of our Independent Trustees and the independent trustees of the other REITs to which RMR LLC then provided management services, or the Joint Special Committee, and were separately approved and adopted by our Independent Trustee who did not serve as an independent trustee of any of the other REITs, by a Special Committee of our Board of Trustees, comprised solely of our Independent Trustees, or our Special Committee, and by our Board of Trustees. Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC acted as financial advisor to the Joint Special Committee and Houlihan Lokey Capital, Inc. acted as financial advisor to our Special Committee. Nonetheless, because of these various relationships, the Up-C Transaction was not negotiated on an arm's length basis among unrelated third parties, and therefore may not be on terms as favorable to us or the other REITs to which RMR LLC provides management services as it would have been if it was negotiated on an arm's length basis among unrelated parties. As a result of these relationships, we may be subject to increased risk that our shareholders or the shareholders of the other applicable REITs to which RMR LLC provides management services may challenge the Up-C Transaction and the agreements entered into as part of the Up-C Transaction. Any such challenge could result in substantial costs and be a diversion to our management's attention, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and growth and could adversely affect our ability to realize the benefits we expect from the Up-C Transaction, whether or not the allegations have merit or are substantiated.. We may be at an increased risk for dissident shareholder activities due to perceived conflicts of interest arising from our management structure.. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident shareholder trustee nominations and dissident shareholder proposals. 45. Table of Contents. have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated and related persons and entities. Our relationships with RMR Inc., RMR LLC, TA, Sonesta, AIC, the other businesses and entities to which RMR LLC or its subsidiaries provide management services, Adam Portnoy and other related persons of RMR LLC may precipitate such activities. Certain proxy advisory firms which have significant influence over the voting by shareholders of public companies have, in the past, recommended, and in the future may recommend, that shareholders withhold votes for the election of our incumbent Trustees, vote against our say on pay vote or other management proposals and vote for shareholder proposals that we oppose. These recommendations may affect the outcome of our Board elections and impact our governance, which may increase shareholder activism and litigation. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs, and diversion of our management's attention and could have a material adverse impact on our reputation and business.. We may experience losses from our business dealings with AIC.. We, ABP Trust, TA and four other companies to which RMR LLC provides management services each own 14.3% of AIC, and we have invested $7.1 million in AIC. We and those other AIC shareholders participate in a combined property insurance program arranged and insured and reinsured in part by AIC and we periodically consider the possibilities for expanding our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverages at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. While we believe we have in the past benefitted from these arrangements, these beneficial financial results may not occur in the future, and we may need to invest additional capital in order to continue to pursue these results. AIC's business involves the risks typical of an insurance business, including the risk that it may not operate profitably. Accordingly, financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may not be achieved in the future, and we may experience losses from these dealings.. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. Ownership limitations and certain provisions in our declaration of trust, bylaws and contracts, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals.. Our declaration of trust and bylaws prohibit any shareholder other than RMR LLC and its affiliates (as defined under Maryland law) and certain persons who have been exempted by our Board of Trustees from owning, directly and by attribution, more than 9.8% of the number or value of shares (whichever is more restrictive) of any class or series of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest, including our common shares. These provisions are intended to, among other purposes, assist with our REIT compliance under the IRC and otherwise promote our orderly governance. However, these provisions may also inhibit acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may deter, delay or prevent a change in control of us or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a shareholder may consider favorable. Additionally, provisions contained in our declaration of trust and bylaws or under Maryland law may have a similar impact, including, for example, provisions relating to:. • the division of our Trustees into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year, which could delay a change of control of us;. • the authority of our Board of Trustees, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws and to fill vacancies on our Board of Trustees;. • shareholder voting standards which require a supermajority for approval of certain actions;. • the fact that only our Board of Trustees, or, if there are no Trustees, our officers, may call shareholder meetings and that shareholders are not entitled to act without a meeting;. • required qualifications for an individual to serve as a Trustee and a requirement that certain of our Trustees be \"Managing Trustees\" and other Trustees be \"Independent Trustees,\" as defined in our governing documents;. • limitations on the ability of our shareholders to propose nominees for election as Trustees and propose other business to be considered at a meeting of our shareholders;. • limitations on the ability of our shareholders to remove our Trustees;. 46. Table of Contents. • requirements that shareholders comply with regulatory requirements (including Nevada and Louisiana gaming and Indiana insurance licensing requirements) affecting us which could effectively limit share ownership of us, including in some cases, to 5% of our outstanding shares; and. • the authority of our Board of Trustees to create and issue new classes or series of shares (including shares with voting rights and other rights and privileges that may deter a change in control) and issue additional common shares.. In addition, our shareholders agreement with respect to AIC provides that AIC and the other shareholders of AIC may have rights to acquire our interests in AIC in the event that anyone acquires more than 9.8% of our shares or we experience some other change in control.. Certain aspects of our business may prevent shareholders from accumulating a large stake in us, from nominating or serving as Trustees, or from taking actions to otherwise control our business.. Certain of our properties include gambling operations. Applicable state laws require that any shareholder who owns or controls 5% or more of our securities or anyone who wishes to serve as one of our Trustees must be licensed or approved by the state regulators responsible for gambling operations. Similarly, as an owner of AIC, we are licensed and approved as an insurance holding company; and any shareholder who owns or controls 10% or more of our securities or anyone who wishes to solicit proxies for election of, or to serve as, one of our Trustees or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Trustees may be required to receive pre-clearance from the concerned insurance regulators. These approval and pre-approval procedures may discourage or prevent investors from purchasing our securities, from nominating persons to serve as our Trustees or from taking other actions.. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our Trustees and officers are limited.. Our declaration of trust limits the liability of our Trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our Trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from:. • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or. • active and deliberate dishonesty by the Trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated.. Our declaration of trust and indemnification agreements require us to indemnify any present or former Trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, who is made or threatened to be made a party to a proceeding by reason of his or her service in these and certain other capacities. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our declaration of trust and indemnification agreements or that might exist with other companies, which could limit our shareholders' recourse in the event of actions not in their best interest.. Disputes with TA, RMR LLC and Sonesta and shareholder litigation against us or our Trustees and officers may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings.. Our contracts with TA, RMR LLC and Sonesta provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Similarly, our bylaws provide that certain actions by our shareholders against us or against our Trustees and officers, other than disputes, or any portion thereof, regarding the meaning, interpretation or validity of any provision of our declaration of trust or bylaws, may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation in courts against TA, RMR LLC, Sonesta or our Trustees and officers for disputes referred to arbitration in accordance with our bylaws. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration proceedings, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding.. Our bylaws designate the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland as the sole and exclusive forum for certain actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our Trustees, officers, manager, agents or employees.. 47. Table of Contents. Our bylaws currently provide that, unless the dispute has been referred to binding arbitration, the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland will be the sole and exclusive forum for: (1) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (2) any action asserting a claim for breach of a duty owed by any Trustee, officer, manager, agent or employee of ours to us or our shareholders; (3) any action asserting a claim against us or any Trustee, officer, manager, agent or employee of ours arising pursuant to Maryland law, our declaration of trust or bylaws brought by or on behalf of a shareholder; or (4) any action asserting a claim against us or any Trustee, officer, manager, agent or employee of ours that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Our bylaws currently also provide that the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland will be the sole and exclusive forum for any dispute, or portion thereof, regarding the meaning, interpretation or validity of any provision of our declaration of trust or bylaws. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring or holding any interest in our shares of beneficial interest shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to these provisions of our bylaws, as they may be amended from time to time. These choice of forum provisions may limit a shareholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the shareholder believes is favorable for disputes with us or our Trustees, officers, manager, agents or employees, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our Trustees, officers, manager or agents.. We may change our operational, financing and investment policies without shareholder approval and we may become more highly leveraged, which may increase our risk of default under our debt obligations.. Our Board of Trustees determines our operational, financing and investment policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Further, our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness, funded or otherwise, that we may incur. Our Board of Trustees may alter or eliminate our current policy on borrowing at any time without shareholder approval. If this policy changes, we could become more highly leveraged, which could result in an increase in our debt service costs. Higher leverage also increases the risk of default on our obligations. In addition, a change in our investment policies, including the manner in which we allocate our resources across our portfolio or the types of assets in which we seek to invest, may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, real estate market fluctuations and liquidity risk.. Risks Related to Our Taxation. Our failure to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC or the loss of our other special tax statuses could have significant adverse consequences.. As a REIT, we generally do not pay federal or most state income taxes as long as we distribute all of our REIT taxable income and meet other qualifications set forth in the IRC. However, actual qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC depends on our satisfying complex statutory requirements, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. We believe that we have been organized and have operated, and will continue to be organized and to operate, in a manner that qualified and will continue to qualify us to be taxed as a REIT under the IRC. However, we cannot be sure that the IRS, upon review or audit, will agree with this conclusion. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that the federal government, or any state or other taxation authority, will continue to afford favorable income tax treatment to REITs and their shareholders.. Maintaining our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC will require us to continue to satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amounts we distribute to our shareholders. In order to meet these requirements, it may be necessary for us to sell or forgo attractive investments.. If we cease to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, then our ability to raise capital might be adversely affected, we will be in breach under our credit agreement, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the market price of our common shares could decline. In addition, if we lose or revoke our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC for a taxable year, we will generally be prevented from requalifying for taxation as a REIT for the next four taxable years.. Similarly, under existing law and through available tax concessions, we have minimized the Canadian and Puerto Rican income taxes that we must pay. We believe that we have operated, and are operating, in compliance with the requirements of these laws and tax concessions. However, we cannot be sure that, upon review or audit, the local tax authority will agree. If the existing laws or concessions are unavailable to us in the future, then we may be subject to material amounts of income taxes and the market price of our common shares could decline.. 48. Table of Contents. Distributions to shareholders generally will not qualify for reduced tax rates applicable to \"qualified dividends.\". Dividends payable by U.S. corporations to noncorporate shareholders, such as individuals, trusts and estates, are generally eligible for reduced federal income tax rates applicable to \"qualified dividends.\" Distributions paid by REITs generally are not treated as \"qualified dividends\" under the IRC and the reduced rates applicable to such dividends do not generally apply. However, for tax years beginning after 2017 and before 2026, REIT dividends paid to noncorporate shareholders are generally taxed at an effective tax rate lower than applicable ordinary income tax rates due to the availability of a deduction under the IRC for specified forms of income from passthrough entities. More favorable rates will nevertheless continue to apply to regular corporate \"qualified\" dividends, which may cause some investors to perceive that an investment in a REIT is less attractive than an investment in a non-REIT entity that pays dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our common shares.. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, subject to specified adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, federal corporate income tax will not apply to the earnings that we distribute, but if we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, then we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the IRC. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws.. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, among other things, we may borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions in order to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our shareholders' equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT distribution requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could cause the market price of our common shares to decline.. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flows.. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, we may be subject to federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, excise taxes, state or local income, property and transfer taxes, and other taxes. Also, some jurisdictions may in the future limit or eliminate favorable income tax deductions, including the dividends paid deduction, which could increase our income tax expense. In addition, in order to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the IRC, prevent the recognition of particular types of non-cash income, or avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to specified gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold or dispose of some of our assets and conduct some of our operations through our TRSs or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. In addition, while we intend that our transactions with our TRSs will be conducted on arm's length bases, we may be subject to a 100% excise tax on a transaction that the IRS or a court determines was not conducted at arm's length. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. If arrangements involving our TRSs fail to comply as intended with the REIT qualification and taxation rules, we may fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the IRC or be subject to significant penalty taxes.. We lease a substantial majority of our hotel properties to our TRSs pursuant to arrangements that, under the IRC, are intended to qualify the rents we receive from our TRSs as income that satisfies the REIT gross income tests. We also intend that our transactions with our TRSs be conducted on arm's length bases so that we and our TRSs will not be subject to penalty taxes under the IRC applicable to mispriced transactions. While relief provisions can sometimes excuse REIT gross income test failures, significant penalty taxes may still be imposed.. For our TRS arrangements to comply as intended with the REIT qualification and taxation rules under the IRC, a number of requirements must be satisfied, including:. • our TRSs may not directly or indirectly operate or manage a lodging facility, as defined by the IRC;. 49. Table of Contents. • the leases to our TRSs must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and not as service contracts, partnerships, joint ventures, financings or other types of arrangements;. • the leased properties must constitute qualified lodging facilities (including customary amenities and facilities) under the IRC;. • our leased properties must be managed and operated on behalf of the TRSs by independent contractors who are less than 35% affiliated with us and who are actively engaged (or have affiliates so engaged) in the trade or business of managing and operating qualified lodging facilities for persons unrelated to us; and. • the rental and other terms of the leases must be arm's length.. We cannot be sure that the IRS or a court will agree with our assessment that our TRS arrangements comply as intended with REIT qualification and taxation rules. If arrangements involving our TRSs fail to comply as we intended, we may fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT under the IRC or be subject to significant penalty taxes.. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could materially and adversely affect us and our shareholders.. The rules dealing with U.S. federal, state, and local taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and other taxation authorities. Changes to the tax laws, with or without retroactive application, could materially and adversely affect us and our shareholders. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect us or our shareholders. New legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify for taxation as a REIT or the tax consequences of such qualification.. In addition, December 2017 legislation has made substantial changes to the IRC. Among those changes are a significant permanent reduction in the generally applicable corporate income tax rate, changes in the taxation of individuals and other noncorporate taxpayers that generally reduce their taxes on a temporary basis subject to \"sunset\" provisions, the elimination or modification of various deductions (including substantial limitation of the deduction for personal state and local taxes imposed on individuals), and preferential taxation of income derived by individuals from passthrough entities in comparison to earnings received directly by individuals.  This legislation also imposes additional limitations on the deduction of net operating losses, which may in the future cause us to make additional distributions that will be taxable to our shareholders to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits in order to comply with the REIT distribution requirements.  The effect of these and other changes made in this legislation is highly uncertain, both in terms of their direct effect on the taxation of an investment in our common shares and their indirect effect on the value of properties owned by us.  Furthermore, many of the provisions of the new law will require guidance through the issuance of Treasury regulations in order to assess their effect.  There may be a substantial delay before such regulations are promulgated, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate effect of the statutory amendments on us or our shareholders.  It is also possible that there will be technical corrections legislation proposed with respect to the new law, the effect of which cannot be predicted and may be adverse to us or our shareholders.. Risks Related to our Securities. Our distributions to our shareholders may decline.. We intend to continue to make regular quarterly distributions to our shareholders.  However:. • our ability to make or sustain the rate of distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K occur;. • our making of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our credit agreement and may be subject to restrictions in future debt obligations we may incur; and. • the timing and amount of any distributions will be determined at the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend on various factors that our Board of Trustees deems relevant, including our financial condition, our results of operations, our liquidity, our capital requirements, our funds from operations, or FFO, our Normalized FFO, restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements, general economic conditions in the United States, requirements under the IRC to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT and restrictions under the laws of Maryland.. 50. Table of Contents. For these reasons, among others, our distribution rate may decline or we may cease making distributions to our shareholders.. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the value of our securities.. As with other publicly traded equity securities and REIT securities, the value of our common shares and other securities depends on various market conditions that are subject to change from time to time, including:. • the extent of investor interest in our securities;. • the general reputation of REITs and externally managed companies and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate based companies or by other issuers less sensitive to rises in interest rates;. • our underlying asset value;. • investor confidence in the stock and bond markets, generally;. • market interest rates;. • national economic conditions;. • changes in tax laws;. • changes in our credit ratings; and. • general market conditions.. We believe that one of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell equity securities of a REIT is the distribution rate, considered as a percentage of the price of the equity securities, relative to market interest rates. Interest rates have been at historically low levels for an extended period of time. There is a general market perception that REIT shares outperform in low interest rate environments and underperform in rising interest rate environments when compared to the broader market. Since December 2016, the U.S. Federal Reserve has raised its benchmark interest rate by one percentage point, and there are some market expectations that market interest rates will rise further in the near to intermediate term. If market interest rates continue to increase, or if there continues to be market expectation of such increases, prospective purchasers of REIT equity securities may want to achieve a higher distribution rate. Thus, higher market interest rates, or the expectation of higher interest rates, could cause the value of our securities to decline.. Further issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to current shareholders.. The interests of our existing shareholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities to finance future acquisitions or to repay indebtedness. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, which may include secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, which may include common and preferred shares.. The Notes are structurally subordinated to the payment of all indebtedness and other liabilities and any preferred equity of our subsidiaries.. We are the sole obligor on our outstanding senior unsecured notes, and our outstanding senior unsecured notes, and any notes or other debt securities we may issue in the future, or, together with our outstanding senior unsecured notes, the Notes, and such Notes are not, and any Notes we may issue in the future may not, be guaranteed by any of our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due on the Notes, or to make any funds available therefor, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payments. The rights of holders of Notes to benefit from any of the assets of our subsidiaries are subject to the prior satisfaction of claims of our subsidiaries' creditors and any preferred equity holders. As a result, the Notes are, and, except to the extent that future Notes are guaranteed by our subsidiaries, will be, structurally subordinated to all of the debt and other liabilities and obligations of our subsidiaries, including guarantees of other indebtedness of ours, payment obligations under lease agreements, trade payables. 51. Table of Contents. and preferred equity. As of December 31, 2017, our subsidiaries had total indebtedness and other liabilities (excluding security and other deposits and guaranties) of less than $10.0 million.. The Notes are unsecured and effectively subordinated to all of our existing and future secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness.. The outstanding Notes are not secured and any Notes we may issue in the future may not be secured. Upon any distribution to our creditors in a bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or similar proceeding relating to us or our property, the holders of our secured debt will be entitled to exercise the remedies available to a secured lender under applicable law and pursuant to the instruments governing such debt and to be paid in full from the assets securing that secured debt before any payment may be made with respect to Notes that are not secured by those assets. In that event, because such Notes will not be secured by any of our assets, it is possible that there will be no assets from which claims of holders of such Notes can be satisfied or, if any assets remain, that the remaining assets will be insufficient to satisfy those claims in full. If the value of such remaining assets is less than the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such Notes and accrued interest and all future debt ranking equally with such Notes, we will be unable to fully satisfy our obligations under such Notes. In addition, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under our secured debt, the holders of that secured debt would be entitled to foreclose on our assets securing that secured debt and liquidate those assets. Accordingly, we may not have sufficient funds to pay amounts due on such Notes.  As a result, noteholders may lose a portion or the entire value of their investment in such Notes. Further, the terms of the outstanding Notes permit, and the terms of any Notes we may issue in the future may permit us to incur additional secured indebtedness subject to compliance with certain debt ratios. The Notes that are not secured will be effectively subordinated to any such additional secured indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, we had no secured mortgage debt.. There is no public market for the Notes, and one may not develop, be maintained or be liquid.. We have not applied for listing of the Notes on any securities exchange or for quotation on any automatic dealer quotation system, and we may not do so for Notes issued in the future. We can give no assurances concerning the liquidity of any market that may develop for the Notes, the ability of any holder to sell the Notes or the price at which holders would be able to sell the Notes. If a market for the Notes does not develop, holders may be unable to resell the Notes for an extended period of time, if at all. If a market for the Notes does develop, it may not continue or it may not be sufficiently liquid to allow holders to resell any of the Notes. Consequently, holders of such Notes may not be able to liquidate their investment readily, and lenders may not readily accept the Notes as collateral for loans.. The Notes may trade at a discount from their initial issue price or principal amount, depending upon many factors, including prevailing interest rates, the ratings assigned by rating agencies, the market for similar securities and other factors, including general economic conditions and our financial condition, performance and prospects. Any decline in market prices, regardless of cause, may adversely affect the liquidity and trading markets for the Notes.. A downgrade in credit ratings could materially adversely affect the market price of the Notes and may increase our cost of capital.. The outstanding Notes are rated by two rating agencies and any Notes we may issue in the future may be rated by one or more rating agencies. These credit ratings are continually reviewed by rating agencies and may change at any time based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. Negative changes in the ratings assigned to our debt securities could have an adverse effect on the market price of the Notes and our costs and availability of capital, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations.. Redemption may adversely affect noteholders' return on the Notes.. We have the right to redeem some or all of the outstanding Notes prior to maturity and may have such a right with respect to any Notes we issue in the future. We may redeem such Notes at times when prevailing interest rates may be relatively low compared to the interest rate of such Notes. Accordingly, noteholders may not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as that of the Notes."
