[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should consider carefully the following risks, along with the other information contained in and incorporated into this annual report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations. If any of the following events actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected.. Risk Factors Related to the Recent Merger with First Mariner Bank. Combining the two banks may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected.. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine the business of the former First Mariner into the business of Howard Bank. To realize the anticipated benefits of the merger, we must successfully integrate First Mariner’s business into our own. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the combined bank’s ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. The loss of key employees could adversely affect our ability to successfully conduct our business in our markets, particularly in the areas in which the former First Mariner branches are located, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and the value of our common stock. If we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. As with any merger of financial institutions, there also may be business disruptions that cause us to lose customers, including former customers of First Mariner, or cause customers, including former First Mariner customers, to remove their accounts from Howard Bank and move their business to competing financial institutions. Integration efforts will also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on us during this transition period and for an undetermined period following the recent after consummation of the merger.. We may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings resulting from the merger.. While we believe that we will achieve cost savings from the merger when the two banks have been fully integrated, it is possible that the estimates of the potential cost savings could turn out to be incorrect. The actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and therefore we may not realize the anticipated cost savings of the merger. Actual growth and cost savings, if achieved, may be lower than what we expect and may take longer to achieve than we anticipate. If we are not able to adequately address integration challenges, we may be unable to successfully integrate Howard Bank’s and First Mariner’s former operations or to realize the anticipated benefits of the integration of the two banks.. The market price of our common stock may be affected by factors different from those that affected our shares prior to the merger.. Our business differs in important respects from that conducted by First Mariner prior to the merger and, accordingly, the results of operations of the combined bank and the market price of our common stock may be affected by factors different from those that affected Howard Bancorp’s independent results of operations and the market price of our common stock prior to the merger.. The market price of Howard common stock may decline as a result of the merger.. The market price of our common stock may decline as a result of the merger if we do not achieve the perceived benefits of the merger or the effect of the merger on our financial results is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts. In addition, existing Howard Bancorp stockholders, including former First Mariner stockholders, may not wish to continue to invest in the combined entity, or for other reasons may wish to dispose of some or all of their shares of Howard Bancorp; significant sales of our common stock following the merger, or the expectation that such sales may occur, may depress the market price of our common stock.. Our management has broad discretion as to the use of assets acquired from First Mariner, and may not use these assets effectively.. Our management has broad discretion in the application of the assets acquired in the merger and could utilize the assets in ways that do not improve our results of operations or enhance the value of our common stock. Our failure to utilize these assets effectively could have a material adverse effect on the Company, delay the development of products and cause the price of our common stock to decline.. 15. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business and Our Common Stock. Because our loan portfolio consists largely of commercial business and commercial real estate loans, our portfolio carries a higher degree of risk than would a portfolio composed primarily of residential mortgage loans.. Our loan portfolio is made up largely of commercial business loans and commercial real estate loans, most of which is collateralized by real estate. These types of loans generally expose a lender to a higher degree of credit risk of non-payment and loss than do residential mortgage loans because of several factors, including dependence on the successful operation of a business or a project for repayment, the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate, and loan terms with a balloon payment rather than full amortization over the loan term. In addition, commercial real estate and commercial loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Underwriting and portfolio management activities cannot completely eliminate all risks related to these loans. Any significant failure to pay on time by our customers or a significant default by our customers would materially and adversely affect us.. We make both secured and some unsecured commercial and industrial loans. Unsecured loans generally involve a higher degree of risk of loss than do secured loans because, without collateral, repayment is wholly dependent upon the success of the borrowers’ businesses. Secured commercial and industrial loans are generally collateralized by accounts receivable, inventory, equipment or other assets owned by the borrower and include a personal guaranty of the business owner. Compared to real estate, that type of collateral is more difficult to monitor, its value is harder to ascertain, it may depreciate more rapidly and it may not be as readily saleable if repossessed. Further, commercial and industrial loans generally will be serviced primarily from the operation of the business, which may not be successful, and commercial real estate loans generally will be serviced from income on the properties securing the loans.. While any declines in the value of our real estate collateral securing loans have been reflected in existing reserves, the discounts and reserves we have taken against our loan portfolio based on our internal review of economic conditions and their impact on real estate values in our market areas may be insufficient. Further deterioration in the real estate market or a prolonged economic recovery could adversely affect the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from borrowers’ businesses, thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans and increased portfolio losses that could materially and adversely affect us.. The small businesses that make up the majority of our commercial borrowers generally do not have the cash reserves to help cushion them from an economic slowdown to the same extent that large borrowers do and thus may be more heavily impacted by an economic downturn. A continued sluggish economy or another economic slowdown may have a negative effect on the ability of our commercial borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which could have an adverse impact on our earnings.. Construction loans are subject to risks during the construction phase that are not present in standard residential real estate and commercial real estate loans. These risks include:. ·the viability of the contractor;. ·the value of the project being subject to successful completion;. ·the contractor’s ability to complete the project, to meet deadlines and time schedules and to stay within cost estimates; and. ·concentrations of such loans with a single contractor and its affiliates.. Real estate construction and land loans also present risks of default in the event of declines in property values or volatility in the real estate market during the construction phase. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to completion, we may not be able to recover the entire unpaid portion of the loan, may be required to fund additional amounts to complete a project and may have to hold the property for an indeterminate amount of time. If any of these risks were to occur, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The federal banking agencies have issued guidance regarding high concentrations of commercial real estate loans within bank loan portfolios. The guidance requires financial institutions that exceed certain levels of commercial real estate lending compared with their total capital to maintain heightened risk management practices that address the following key elements: including board and management oversight and strategic planning, portfolio management, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing, and maintenance of increased capital levels as needed to support the level of commercial real estate lending. If there is any deterioration in our commercial real estate or real estate construction and land portfolios or if our regulators conclude that we have not implemented appropriate risk management practices, it could adversely affect our business and result in a requirement of increased capital levels, and such capital may not be available at that time.. 16. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business.. We are subject to certain operational risks including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, inadequate or failed internal processes, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We rely heavily on data processing, software, communication, and information systems on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet to conduct our business. Despite instituted safeguards, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or other technological difficulties or failures. Information security risks have increased significantly due to the use of online, telephone and mobile banking channels by clients and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties. Our technologies, systems, networks and our clients’ devices have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, malicious code, phishing attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our clients’ confidential, proprietary and other information, the theft of client assets through fraudulent transactions or disruption of our or our clients’ or other third parties’ business operations. System failure or errors, security breaches in our Internet banking activities or other communication and information systems, or other technology difficulties or failures, could result in information being lost or misappropriated, interrupt of our operations, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, cause us to incur expenses to rectify, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on standard Internet and other security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from damage or compromises or breaches of our security measures. We continue to monitor developments in this area and consider whether additional protective measures are necessary or appropriate, and we have obtained insurance protection intended to cover losses due to network security breaches; there is no guarantee, however, that such insurance would cover all costs associated with any breach, damage or failure of our computer systems and network infrastructure.. We rely on certain external vendors. Our business is dependent on the use of outside service providers that support our day-to-day operations including data processing and electronic communications.. Our business is dependent on the use of outside service providers that support our day-to-day operations including data processing and electronic communications. Our operations are exposed to the risk that a service provider may not perform in accordance with established performance standards required in our agreements for any number of reasons including equipment or network failure, a change in their senior management, their financial condition, their product line or mix and how they support existing customers, or a simple change in their strategic focus. While we have comprehensive policies and procedures in place to mitigate risk at all phases of service provider management from selection to performance monitoring and renewals, the failure of a service provider to perform in accordance with contractual agreements could be disruptive to our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations.. Because our loan portfolio includes residential real estate loans, our earnings are sensitive to the credit risks associated with these types of loans.. We originate and retain in our portfolio residential mortgage loans and intend to increase our origination of these types of loans. While residential real estate loans are more diversified than loans to commercial borrowers, and our local real estate market and economy have performed better than many other markets, a downturn could cause higher unemployment, more delinquencies, and could adversely affect the value of properties securing loans in our portfolio. In addition, should values begin to decline again, the real estate market may take longer to recover or not recover to previous levels. These risks increase the probability of an adverse impact on our financial results as fewer borrowers would be eligible to borrow and property values could be below necessary levels required for adequate coverage on the requested loan.. Our residential lending department may not continue to provide us with significant noninterest income.. We sell in the secondary market most residential mortgage loans that we originate, earning noninterest income in the form of gains on sale and fees in connection with originating these loans. The residential mortgage business is highly competitive and highly susceptible to changes in market interest rates, consumer confidence levels, employment statistics, the capacity and willingness of secondary market purchasers to acquire and hold or securitize loans, and other factors beyond our control. Additionally, in many respects, the mortgage origination business is relationship-based and dependent on the services of individual mortgage loan officers. The loss of services of one or more loan officers could have the effect of reducing the level of our mortgage production or the rate of growth of production. Further, when interest rates rise, as is expected in the near term, the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall and may reduce the number of loans available for sale. In addition to interest rate levels, weak or deteriorating economic conditions also tend to reduce loan demand. As a result of these factors we cannot be certain that we will not be able to continue to increase the volume or percentage of revenue or net income produced by the residential mortgage business.. 17. Our financial condition, earnings and asset quality could be adversely affected if we are required to repurchase loans originated for sale by our residential lending department.. As discussed in “Item 1. Business — Mortgage Banking,” most loans that we sell in the secondary market are with recourse. Therefore, we may be required to repurchase a previously sold mortgage loan or indemnify the purchaser if there is non-compliance with defined loan origination or documentation standards, including fraud, negligence or material misstatement in the loan documents, if the mortgagor has defaulted early in the loan term, or noncompliance with applicable law. While to date we have had to repurchase only a minimal amount of loans previously sold, should repurchases become a material issue, our earnings and asset quality could be adversely impacted, which could adversely impact the market price of our common stock.. If our allowance for credit losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings would decrease.. We maintain an allowance for credit losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing any potential losses in our loan portfolio. Management, through a periodic review and consideration of our loan portfolio, determines the amount of the allowance for credit losses. We cannot, however, predict with certainty the amount of probable losses in our portfolio or be sure that our allowance will be adequate in the future. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for credit losses is inadequate to absorb future losses, our losses will increase and our earnings will suffer.. In particular, it is more difficult to estimate loan losses for those types of loans - commercial and commercial real estate - that constitute the majority of our portfolio as compared to, for example, residential mortgage loans. Also, because these types of loans tend to have large loan balances, a loss on a single loan could have a significant adverse effect on our operations.. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for credit losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance and a corresponding decrease to earnings. Material additions to the allowance could materially decrease our net income. If delinquencies and defaults should increase, we may be required to further increase our provision for loan losses.. In addition, if the loans we acquired in our acquisitions of First Mariner or Patapsco Bancorp do not perform as we have estimated, our allowance for credit losses may not be adequate. See “We have relatively limited or no experience with the performance of loans acquired in our acquisitions of Patapsco Bancorp and First Mariner. Certain of our estimates related to accounting for acquired loans may differ from actual results,” below.. Significant increases to our allowance materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for credit losses and may require us to increase our provision for credit losses or recognize further loan charge-offs to the allowance for credit losses. Any increase in the allowance for credit losses or loan charge-offs might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has adopted a new accounting standard that will become effective for us on January 1, 2020. This standard, referred to as Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL, will require financial institutions to determine periodic estimates of lifetime expected credit losses on loans and recognize the expected credit losses as allowances for credit losses. This will change the current method of providing allowances for credit losses that are probable, which would likely require us to increase our allowance for credit losses, and to greatly increase the types of data we would need to collect and review to determine the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses.. We have relatively limited experience with the performance of loans acquired in our recent acquisitions of First Mariner and Patapsco Bancorp. Certain of our estimates related to accounting for acquired loans may differ from actual results.. We acquired First Mariner on March 1, 2018 and Patapsco Bancorp in August 2015. It is difficult to assess the future performance of loans recently added to our portfolio as part of these acquisitions because our relatively limited experience with such loans does not provide us with a significant history from which to judge future collectability. These loans may experience higher delinquency or charge-off levels than our historical loan portfolio experience, which could adversely affect our future performance.. 18. In addition, under generally accepted principles for business combinations, there is no loan loss allowance initially recorded for acquired loans, which are recorded at net fair value on the acquisition date. This net fair value generally includes embedded loss estimates for acquired loans with deteriorated credit quality. These estimates are based on projections of expected cash flows for these problem loans, which in many cases rely on estimates deriving from the liquidation of collateral.. If the estimates we have made regarding the performance of loans we have acquired are inaccurate, the fair value estimates may exceed the actual collectability of the balances, and this may result in the related loans being considered by us as impaired, which would result in a reduction in interest income. The tangible book value we measure is based in part on these estimates, and if fair value estimates differ from actual collectability, then subsequent earnings may also differ from original estimates. Measures of tangible book value and earnings impact of business combinations are frequently used in evaluating the merits and value of business combinations. Numerous assumptions and estimates are integral to purchased loan accounting, and actual results could be different from prior estimates.. Our growth strategy may not be successful, may be dilutive and may have other adverse consequences.. As previously mentioned, a key component of our growth strategy is to pursue acquisitions of other financial institutions or branches of other financial institutions. As consolidation of the banking industry continues, the competition for suitable acquisition candidates may increase. We compete with other banking companies for acquisition opportunities, and there are a limited number of candidates that meet our acquisition criteria. Consequently, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates for acquisitions. If we are unable to locate suitable acquisition candidates willing to sell on terms acceptable to us, our net income could decline and we would be required to find other methods to grow our business. We may also open additional branches organically and expand into new markets or offer new products and services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including:. ·the time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners;. ·using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution or its branches or assets;. ·diluting our existing stockholders in an acquisition;. ·the time and expense associated with evaluating new markets for expansion, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices or branches as there may be a substantial time lag between these activities before we generate sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion;. ·operating in markets in which we have had no or only limited experience;. ·taking a significant amount of time negotiating a transaction or working on expansion plans, resulting in management’s time and attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business;. ·we may not be able to correctly identify profitable or growing markets for new branches;. ·the time and expense associated with integrating the operations and personnel of the combined businesses;. ·the ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition;. ·creating an adverse short-term effect on our results of operations;. ·losing key employees and customers as a result of an acquisition that is poorly received;. ·time and costs associated with regulatory approvals;. ·lack of information on a target institution or its branches or assets;. ·inability to obtain additional financing (including by issuing additional common equity), if necessary, on favorable terms or at all; and. ·unforeseen adjustments, write-downs, write-offs or restructuring or other impairment charges.. In addition, we may not be able to integrate successfully or operate profitably any financial institutions we may acquire. We may experience disruption and incur unexpected expenses in integrating acquisitions. Any acquisitions we do make may not enhance our cash flows, business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly during periods in which the acquisitions are being integrated into our operations.. Also, the costs to lease and start up new branch facilities or to acquire existing financial institutions or branches, and the additional costs to operate these facilities, may increase our noninterest expense. It also may be difficult to adequately and profitably manage the anticipated growth from the new branches. We can provide no assurance that any new branch sites will successfully attract a sufficient level of deposits and other banking business to offset their operating expenses.. Further, we plan to continue to make investments in our infrastructure in the future. We also currently plan to open additional branches in the areas where we now operate and in other markets over the next few years. We anticipate that this will have the short-term effect of, at least temporarily, increasing our expenses at a faster rate than revenue growth, which will have an adverse effect on net income.. 19. If we grow too quickly and are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, growth could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Further, we may not be successful in our growth strategy, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions.. Technology and other changes are allowing consumers to complete financial transactions through alternative methods that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts, mutual funds or general-purpose reloadable prepaid cards. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, which may increase as consumers become more comfortable with these new technologies and offerings, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost of deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry within our market area is intense. In our market area, we compete with, among others, commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. There are also a number of smaller community-based banks that pursue similar operating strategies as Howard Bank. In addition, some of our competitors have recently offered loans with lower fixed rates and on more attractive terms than we have been willing to offer. Our continued profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and broader range of deposit and loan products offered by our competition may limit our ability to increase our interest earning assets and profitability. See “Item 1. Business -Competition” for more information about competition in our market area.. We expect competition to remain intense in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions may adversely affect our ability to market our products and services. Also, technological advances have lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for banks to compete in our market without a retail footprint by offering competitive rates and for non-banks to offer products and services that have traditionally been provided by banks. Additionally, due to their size, many of our competitors may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for certain products and services than we can, which could affect our ability to grow and remain profitable on a long-term basis. Our profitability depends upon our ability to successfully compete in our market area, and competition for deposits and the origination of loans could limit our ability to successfully implement our business plan, and could adversely affect our results of operations in the future. Further, if we must raise interest rates paid on deposits or lower interest rates charged on our loans, our net interest margin and profitability could be adversely affected.. Furthermore, competition in the banking and financial services industry is coming not only from traditional competitors but from technology-oriented financial services (“FinTech”) companies, which are subject to limited regulation. They offer user friendly front-end, quick turnaround times for loans and other benefits. While we are considering the possibility of developing relationships with FinTech companies for efficiency in processing and/or as a source of loans and other benefits, we cannot limit the possibility that our customers or future prospects will work directly with a FinTech company instead. This could impact our growth and profitability going forward.. We continually encounter technological change.. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology driven by new or modified products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations.. 20. We must comply with extensive and complex governmental regulation, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our growth strategy, and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.. The banking industry is subject to extensive regulation by state and federal banking authorities. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public or the FDIC insurance funds, not stockholders. Regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and many other aspects of our business. These requirements may constrain our operations, and changes in regulations could adversely affect us. The burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in general, and Howard Bank specifically, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. In addition, the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably or increase profitability. See “Supervision and Regulation” for more information about applicable banking laws and regulations. Further, if we are not in compliance with such requirements, we could be subject to fines or other regulatory action that could restrict our ability to operate or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Although we believe we are in material compliance with all applicable regulations, it is possible there are violations of which we are unaware that could be discovered by our regulators in the course of an examination or otherwise, which could trigger such fines or other adverse consequences.. Further, regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for credit losses. If regulators require Howard Bank to charge off loans or increase its allowance for credit losses, our earnings would suffer. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulation, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. For a further discussion, see “Supervision and Regulation.”. In addition, because regulation of financial institutions changes regularly and is the subject of constant legislative debate, we cannot forecast how federal or state regulation of financial institutions may change in the future and impact our operations. Changes in regulation and oversight, including in the form of changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the services and products we offer, increase our operating expenses, increase compliance challenges and otherwise adversely impact our financial performance and condition. In addition, the burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in general, and Howard Bank specifically, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors.. The Company and the Bank have implemented an enhanced organizational structure to ensure that our risk management activities are scaled to the entire enterprise.<U+200E> The office of strategic risk management, reporting to an executive vice president with direct reporting to the CEO and a dotted line reporting to the full board, is responsible for credit, compliance and operational, physical and IT security, legal, reputational and other on and off balance sheet risks.. Further, as a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses in connection with compliance with rules of the SEC and The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC.. Non-Compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, the Bank Secrecy Act or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions.. Financial institutions are required under the USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money-laundering and terrorist activities. Financial institutions are also obligated to file suspicious activity reports with Treasury’s Department's Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network if such activities are detected. These rules also require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure or the inability to comply with these regulations could result in fines or penalties, curtailment of expansion opportunities, intervention or sanctions by regulators and costly litigation or expensive additional controls and systems. During the last few years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. In addition, the U.S. Government has previously imposed laws and regulations relating to residential and consumer lending activities that create significant new compliance burdens and financial risks. While we have developed policies and procedures designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that these policies and procedures will be effective in preventing violations of these laws and regulations.. Adverse changes in economic conditions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States as well as in our local market area. We continue to operate in a challenging and uncertain economic environment. Since the recession ended almost nine years ago, economic growth has been slow by historic standards and uneven. Further, the current expansion is already the third longest in U.S. history, and many economists believe that the risk of a recession in the medium-term (2019-2020) is increasing. A return to recessionary conditions or prolonged stagnant or deteriorating economic conditions could significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the demand for our products and services, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Economic uncertainties even outside of a recession, including concerns about U.S. debt levels, tariffs on imports into the United States, Congress’ inability to pass yearly budgets, and cuts in government spending, may negatively impact economic conditions going forward. A return to elevated levels of unemployment, declines in the values of real estate, or other events that negatively affect household and/or corporate incomes may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies, increases in our nonperforming and criticized classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 21. Our profitability depends on interest rates, and changes in interest rates could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our results of operations depends to a large extent on our “net interest income,” which is the difference between the interest income received from our interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense incurred in connection with our interest-bearing liabilities, such as interest on deposit accounts. Changes in interest rates can increase or decrease our net interest income, because different types of assets and liabilities may react differently, and at different times, to market interest rate changes. When interest bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest earning assets in a period, an increase in interest rates could reduce net interest income. Similarly, when interest earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than interest bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. Additionally, an increase in interest rates may, among other things, reduce loan demand and our ability to originate loans (which would also decrease our ability to generate noninterest income through the sale of loans into the secondary market), and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans or otherwise decrease loan repayment rates. A decrease in the general level of interest rates may affect us through, among other things, increased prepayments on our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the level of market interest rates affect our net yield on interest earning assets, loan origination volume, loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios, and our overall results. Fluctuations in interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are not predictable or controllable. Therefore, while we attempt to manage our risk from changes in market interest rates by adjusting the rates, maturity, repricing, and balances of the different types of interest-earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, we might not be able to maintain a consistent positive spread between the interest that we receive and the interest that we pay. As a result, a rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our net interest margin and results of operations.. In addition, as market interest rates rise, we will have competitive pressures to increase the rates we pay on deposits. Because interest rates we pay on our deposits could be expected to increase more quickly than the increase in the yields we earn on our interest-earning assets, our net interest income would be adversely affected.. Furthermore, the FRB, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has among other things kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities. If the FRB continues to increase the federal funds rate in the near term, as is expected, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic growth. If rates remain relatively low it could create deflationary pressures, which while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a negative impact on our borrowers, especially our commercial borrowers, and the values of collateral securing our loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance.. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the interest rates on existing loans and securities.. Requirements to hold more capital could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations.. In July 2013, the bank regulators adopted a final rule for the Basel III capital framework. These rules apply to all depository institutions, top-tier bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $1 billion or more and top-tier savings and loan holding companies and substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to us. The rules apply to Howard Bank and Howard Bancorp. The rules include a capital conservation buffer that phases in over a period of years that began in 2016 and will become fully effective in 2019. Failure to satisfy any of the capital requirements, including with the applicable “buffer” amount, will result in limits on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses. The rules establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions if the capital requirements of the buffer are not fully satisfied. Beginning January 1, 2018, Howard Bancorp and the Bank’s risk-based capital requirements, with the applicable buffer, are (i) a common equity Tier 1 ratio of 6.375%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital (common Tier 1 capital plus Additional Tier 1 capital) ratio of 7.875% and (iii) a total capital ratio of 9.875%. The capital conservation buffer does not apply to our leverage ratio requirement, which will remain at 4.0%. Once the capital conservation buffer is fully phased in on January 1, 2019, the resulting requirements will be a common equity Tier 1 ratio of 7.0%, a Tier 1 ratio of 8.5%, and a total capital ratio of 10.5%. These increased capital requirements may have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and results of operations, or the failure to satisfy such requirements may result in our inability to pay dividends on or repurchase shares of our common stock, which could also negatively impact the market price of our stock, and may negatively impact our ability to retain personnel if our ability to pay retention bonuses is compromised.. 22. Our business may be adversely affected by increasing prevalence of fraud and other financial crimes.. As a financial institution, we are subject to risk of loss due to fraud and other financial crimes. Nationally, reported incidents of fraud and other financial crimes have increased. We believe we have controls in place to detect and prevent such losses, but in some cases multi-party collusion or other sophisticated methods of hiding fraud may not be readily detected or detectable, and could result in losses that affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Financial crime is not limited to the financial services industry. Our customers could experience fraud in their businesses, which could materially impact their ability to repay their loans, and deposit customers in all financial institutions are constantly and unwittingly solicited by others in fraud schemes that vary from easily detectable and obvious attempts to high-level and very complex international schemes that could drain an account of millions of dollars and require detailed financial forensics to unravel. While we have controls in place, contractual agreements with our customers partitioning liability, and insurance to help mitigate the risk, none of these are guarantees that we will not experience a loss, potentially a loss that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, reputation and results of operations.. Monetary policy and general economic conditions will influence our results of operations.. Governmental economic and monetary policy will influence our results of operations. The rates of interest payable on deposits and chargeable on loans are affected by fiscal policy as determined by various governmental and regulatory authorities, in particular the FRB, as well as by national, state and local economic conditions. In addition, adverse general economic conditions may impair the ability of our borrowers to repay loans.. Because the Bank serves a limited market area, we are susceptible to economic downturns in our market area.. Our lending and deposit operations are concentrated in the Greater Baltimore Metropolitan Area. Broad geographic diversification is not currently part of our community bank focus. As a result, our success depends in part on economic conditions in our markets. Adverse changes in economic conditions in our primary market area could reduce our deposit base and demand for our services and products and negatively impact growth in our loans and deposits, impair our ability to collect on our outstanding loans, increase credit losses, problem loans and charge-offs, and otherwise negatively affect our performance and financial condition. Declines in real estate values could cause some of our residential and commercial real estate loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss in the event that the recovery on amounts due on defaulted loans is resolved by selling the real estate collateral. In addition, adverse changes in economic conditions in and around our market area may more severely impact our business and financial condition than are our larger, more geographically diverse competitors. Our larger bank competitors, for example, serve more geographically diverse market areas, parts of which may not be affected by the same economic conditions that may exist in our market areas.. Further, unexpected changes in the national and local economy may adversely affect our ability to attract deposits and to make loans. In particular, due to the proximity of our primary and secondary market areas to Washington, D.C., decreases in spending by the Federal government or cuts to Federal government employment could impact us to a greater degree than banks that serve a larger or a different geographical area. Such risks are beyond our control and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, the value of our common stock.. The small to medium-sized businesses that the Bank lends to may have fewer resources to weather a downturn in the economy, which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan to the Bank that could materially harm our operating results.. The Bank targets its business development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses frequently have a smaller market share than their competition, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience significant volatility in operating results. Any one or more of these factors may impair their ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small to medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on its business and its ability to repay a loan. As a result, economic downturns and other events that negatively impact our market areas could cause the Bank to incur substantial credit losses that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.. 23. Changes in tax laws may negatively impact our financial performance.. Changes in tax laws contained in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was enacted in December 2017, contain a number of provisions that could have an impact on the banking industry, borrowers and the market for single family residential and multifamily residential real estate. Among the changes are: lower limits on the deductibility of mortgage interest on single family residential mortgages; limitations on deductibility of business interest expense; and limitations on the deductibility of property taxes and state and local income taxes. Such changes may have an adverse effect on the market for and valuation of single family residential properties and multifamily residential properties, as well as on the demand for such loans in the future. If home ownership or multifamily residential property ownership become less attractive, demand for mortgage loans would decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our mortgage banking operations and as a result on our revenues, net income, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the value of the properties securing loans in our portfolio may be adversely impacted as a result of the changing economics of home ownership and multifamily residential ownership, which could require an increase in our provision for credit losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, certain borrowers could become less able to service their debts as a result of higher tax obligations. These changes could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to liquidity risks.. Market conditions could negatively affect the level or cost of available liquidity, which would affect our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner, and without adverse consequences. Core deposits are our primary source of funding, but this is supplemented by FHLB advances, the FRB Discount Window, and other purchased funds. A significant decrease in our core deposits, an inability to renew FHLB advances or access the Discount Window, an inability to obtain alternative funding to core deposits or our other traditional sources of funds, or a substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend heavily on six key employees, Mary Ann Scully, Robert A. Altieri, George C. Coffman, Steven M. Poynot, Charles E. Schwabe and James D. Witty, to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and the loss of their services could disrupt our operations and result in reduced earnings.. Ms. Scully is our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Altieri is an Executive Vice President, President of our Mortgage Banking Division and our Chief Specialty Lending Officer, Mr. Coffman is an Executive Vice President and our Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Poynot is an Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, Mr. Schwabe is an Executive Vice President, our Secretary and our Chief Risk Officer, and Mr. Witty is an Executive Vice President and our Chief Lending Officer. We believe that our continued growth and future success will depend in large part on the skills of our senior management team. We believe our senior management team possesses valuable knowledge about and experience in the banking industry and that their knowledge and relationships would be difficult to replicate. We have entered into an employment agreement with each of Ms. Scully, Mr. Altieri, Mr. Coffman, Mr. Poynot, Mr. Schwabe and Mr. Witty and acquired key-person life insurance on each such executive officer, but the existence of such agreements and insurance does not assure that we will be able to retain their services or recover losses associated with the loss of their services. The unexpected loss of the services of Ms. Scully, Mr. Altieri, Mr. Coffman, Mr. Poynot, Mr. Schwabe or Mr. Witty could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition and operating results, as well as the value of our common stock.. Federal and state banking agencies periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with any supervisory actions to which we are or become subject as a result of such examinations may adversely affect us.. State and federal banking agencies, including the FRB, the FDIC and the Commissioner, periodically conduct examinations of our business, including compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a state or federal banking agency were to determine that our financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that we or our management was in violation of any law or regulation, it may take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to restrict our growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against our officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate the Bank’s deposit insurance. If we become subject to such regulatory actions, our business, results of operations and reputation may be negatively impacted.. 24. Our expansion plans will require regulatory approvals, and failure to obtain them may restrict our growth.. We intend to complement and expand our business by continuing to pursue strategic acquisitions of banks and other financial institutions. We must generally receive regulatory approval before we can acquire an institution or business. Such regulatory approvals may not be granted on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. We may also be required to sell branches as a condition to receiving regulatory approval, which condition may not be acceptable to us or, if acceptable to us, may reduce the benefit of any acquisition.. In addition to the acquisition of existing financial institutions, as opportunities arise, we plan to continue de novo branching as a part of our internal growth strategy and possibly enter into new markets through de novo branching. De novo branching and any acquisition carries with it numerous risks, including the inability to obtain all required regulatory approvals. The failure to obtain these regulatory approvals for potential future strategic acquisitions and de novo branches may impact our business plans and restrict our growth.. We may be required to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed on attractive terms, or at all.. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Our capital requirements for the foreseeable future are currently satisfied. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth or if our liquidity is adversely affected by external factors such as worsening economic conditions or continued slow economic growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations could be materially impaired, or the failure to raise additional capital could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, if we decide to raise additional equity capital, your interest in Howard Bancorp could be diluted. Furthermore, if we raise additional capital through the issuance of debt securities, there can be no assurance that sufficient revenues or cash flow will exist to service such debt.. Our investment securities portfolio is subject to credit risk, market risk, and liquidity risk.. Our investment securities portfolio is subject to risks beyond our control that may significantly influence its fair value. These include, but are not limited to, rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults of the issuers of the securities, lack of market pricing of the securities, and instability in the credit markets. Lack of market activity with respect to some securities has, in certain circumstances, required us to base their fair market valuation on unobservable inputs. Any changes in these risk factors, in current accounting principles or interpretations of these principles could impact our assessment of fair value and thus the determination of other-than-temporary impairment of the securities in the investment securities portfolio. Investment securities that previously were determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired could require further write-downs due to continued erosion of the creditworthiness of the issuer. Write-downs of investment securities would negatively affect our earnings and regulatory capital ratios.. Further, most of our securities investment portfolio as of December 31, 2017 has been designated as available for sale pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 320 – “Investments.” ASC Topic 320 requires that unrealized gains and losses in the estimated value of the available for sale portfolio be “marked to market” and reflected as a separate item in stockholders’ equity, net of tax. If the market value of the investment portfolio declines, this could cause a corresponding decline in stockholders’ equity.. Our lending limit may limit our growth.. We are limited in the amount we can loan to a single borrower by the amount of our capital. Generally, under current law, we may lend up to 15% of our unimpaired capital and surplus to any one borrower. Based upon our current capital levels, such amount is significantly less than that of many of our competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our lending limit from doing business with us. We accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but this strategy may not always be available.. The failure to maintain our reputation may materially adversely affect our ability to grow and generate revenue.. Our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. Damage to our reputation could undermines the confidence of clients and prospects in our ability to serve them and therefore could negatively affect our earnings. Damage to our reputation also could affect the confidence of rating agencies, regulators, stockholders and other parties in a wide range of transactions that are important to our business. Failure to maintain our reputation ultimately would have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain and grow our business. Actions by the financial services industry generally or by other members of or individuals in the financial services industry also could impact our reputation negatively. The considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has increased the risk that our reputation could be negatively impacted in a short amount of time. If we are unable to quickly and effectively respond to any incidents negatively impacting our reputation, it could have a material and long-term negative impact on our business and, therefore, our operating results.. 25. Anti-takeover provisions in our corporate documents and in federal and state law may make it difficult and expensive to remove current management.. Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and federal and state banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Howard Bancorp, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our stockholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult and expensive for holders of our common stock to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board of directors or otherwise remove existing directors and management, even if current management is not performing adequately.. Our articles of incorporation limit the liability of our directors and officers and the rights of us and our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers.. Our articles of incorporation eliminates our directors’ and officers’ liability to us and our stockholders for money damages to the fullest extent permitted by Maryland law. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws also require us to indemnify our directors and officers for liability resulting from actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers.. The market price for our common stock may be volatile.. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to changes in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Factors that may affect market sentiment include:. ·operating results that vary from the expectations of our management or of securities analysts and investors;. ·developments in our business or in the financial service sector generally;. ·regulatory or legislative changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations in particular;. ·operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us;. ·changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;. ·announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions, dispositions, financings and other material events by us or our competitors; and. ·changes in financial markets and national and local economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates and stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility.. While the U.S. and other governments continue efforts to restore confidence in financial markets and promote economic growth, market and economic turmoil could still occur in the near- or long-term, negatively affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the price, trading volume and volatility of our common stock.. We may be unable to, or choose not to, pay dividends on our common stock.. We cannot assure you of our ability to pay dividends. Our ability to pay dividends depends on the following factors, among others:. ·We may not have sufficient earnings as our primary source of income, the payment of dividends to Howard Bancorp by Howard Bank, is subject to federal and state laws that limit the ability of that bank to pay dividends;. ·FRB policy requires bank holding companies to pay cash dividends on common stock only out of net income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition; and. ·our board of directors may determine that, even though funds are available for dividend payments, retaining the funds for internal uses, such as expansion of our operations, is a better strategy.. 26. If we fail to pay dividends in the future, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock may be the sole opportunity for gains on an investment in our common stock. In addition, in the event the Bank becomes unable to pay dividends to Howard Bancorp, we may not be able to service our debt or pay our other obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, Howard Bancorp’s inability to receive dividends from Howard Bank could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of your investment in our common stock.. We can sell additional shares of common stock without consulting stockholders and without offering shares to existing stockholders, which would result in dilution of stockholders’ interests in Howard Bancorp and could depress our stock price.. Our articles of incorporation currently authorize an aggregate of 20 million shares of common stock, 9,827,072 of which are outstanding as of February 28, 2018. Our board of directors has the authority to amend our articles of incorporation, without stockholder approval, to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of any class of stock that we have the authority to issue. The board of directors is further authorized to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock, at such times and for such consideration as it may determine, without stockholder action. The ability of the board of directors to increase our authorized shares of capital stock, and the existence of authorized but unissued shares of common stock and preferred stock, could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging hostile takeover attempts, or of facilitating a negotiated acquisition and could affect the market for and price of our common stock. Because our common stockholders do not have preemptive rights to purchase shares of our capital stock (that is, the right to purchase a stockholder’s pro rata share of any securities issued by Howard Bancorp), any future offering of capital stock could have a dilutive effect on holders of our common stock."
