[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Our operations will be affected by global economic fluctuations.. Clients' demand for our services may fluctuate widely with changes in economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. Those conditions include slower employment growth or reductions in employment, which directly impact our service offerings. In addition, certain geopolitical events, including the United Kingdom's vote to withdraw from the European Union (\"Brexit\"), have caused significant economic, market, political and regulatory uncertainty in some of the Company's markets. We have limited flexibility to reduce expenses during economic downturns due to some overhead costs that are fixed in the short-term. Furthermore, we may face increased pricing pressures during these periods. For example, in prior economic downturns, many employers in our operating regions reduced their overall workforce to reflect the slowing demand for their products and services.. We may not be able to successfully execute our strategic initiatives or meet our long-term financial goals.. We have been engaged in strategic initiatives to refocus on our core business to maximize long-term stockholder value, to improve our cost structure and efficiency and to increase our selling efforts and developing new business. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to successfully execute these or other strategic initiatives or that we will be able to execute these initiatives on our expected timetable. We may not be successful in refocusing our core business and obtaining operational efficiencies or replacing revenues lost as a result of these strategic initiatives.. While the Sale Transactions are pending, it creates uncertainty about our future that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. While the Sale Transactions are pending, it creates uncertainty about our future. As a result of this uncertainty, our current or potential business partners may decide to delay, defer or cancel entering into new business arrangements with us pending closing or termination of the Sale Transactions. In addition, while the Sale Transactions are pending, we are subject to a number of risks, including:. •the diversion of management and employee attention from our day-to-day business;. •the possible inability to retain employees during the pendency of the Sale Transactions;. •the potential disruption to business partners and other service providers; and. • the possible inability to respond effectively to competitive pressures, industry developments and future opportunities.. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. You are not guaranteed any of the proceeds from the Sale Transactions.. The purchase price for each of the Sale Transactions will be paid directly to the Company or one of its subsidiaries. Hudson intends to use the proceeds from the Sale Transactions for the purposes of investing in its RPO business, reducing support staff costs, continuing Hudson's existing share repurchase program and other general corporate purposes. Hudson could spend or invest the net proceeds from the Sale Transactions in ways with which our stockholders may not agree. The investment of these proceeds may not yield a favorable return.. We will be a very small public company with a large cash balance relative to our market capitalization.. Once the Sale Transactions are completed, we will remain a publicly traded company and will continue to be subject to the listing standards of The Nasdaq Stock Market and SEC rules and regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a result, we will continue to incur additional ongoing operating expenses and we cannot assure how much of the cash proceeds, if any, will ultimately be distributed to stockholders.. -. 4. -. Our ability to execute our strategy following the Sale Transactions depends on our ability to retain and recruit qualified management and/or advisors.. Our ability to execute our strategy following the closing of the Sale Transactions requires that we retain and recruit personnel with experience in our RPO Business.. Following the Sale Transactions, our profitability and growth will depend on the success of our remaining global RPO Business, which is subject to a variety of business risks and uncertainties.. After completion of the Sale Transactions, we will be focused on our global RPO Business. Any evaluation of our RPO Business and our prospects following the Sale Transactions must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties stated above, as well as the following:. •the ability to maintain our relationships with our existing clients;. •the ability to attract new clients;. • potential capital costs used for investment in the RPO Business, including potential costs to complete a reduction in support staff costs;. • the ability to achieve on a timely basis the anticipated cost savings as a result of the planned reduction in support staff; and. • the ability to operate within the limitations imposed by our credit facility and to maintain or generate the amount of cash required to operate the RPO Business.. If we are unable to address these risks, our business, results of operations and prospects following the closing of the Sale Transactions could suffer.. If we fail to complete the Sale Transactions, our business may be harmed.. We cannot assure you that the Sale Transactions will be completed. The closing of the Sale Transactions is subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions, including, among others, the requirement that stockholders approve the Sale Transactions and that each Sale Transaction will be contingent upon the closing of each other Sale Transaction. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to meet all of the closing conditions of the sale agreements. If we are unable to meet all of the closing conditions for a specific sale agreement, the applicable purchaser is not obligated to close on such Sale Transaction. We also cannot be sure that other circumstances will not arise that would allow a purchaser to terminate a sale agreement prior to its closing. If stockholders do not approve the Sale Transactions or we do not close some or all the Sale Transactions, the Board of Directors will be forced to evaluate other alternatives, which may be less favorable to us than the proposed Sale Transactions.. In addition, if the Sale Transactions are not consummated, our directors, executive officers and other employees will have expended extensive time and effort and will have experienced significant distractions from their work during the pendency of the Sale Transactions and we will have incurred significant transaction costs, in each case, without any commensurate benefit, which may have a material and adverse effect on our stock price and results of operations.. If the proposed Sale Transactions are not completed, we may explore other potential transactions, but alternatives may be less favorable to us.. If the proposed Sale Transactions are not completed, we may explore other strategic alternatives, including a sale of the subsidiary businesses in Europe, Belgium and Asia Pacific to another party or parties. An alternative transaction may have terms that are less favorable to us than the terms of the proposed Sale Transactions, or we may be unable to reach agreement with any third party on an alternate transaction that we would consider to be reasonable.. Our operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter; no single quarter is predictive of future periods' results.. Our operating results fluctuate quarter to quarter primarily due to the vacation periods during the first quarter in the Asia Pacific region and the third quarter in the Americas and Europe regions. Demand for our services is typically lower during. -. 5. -. traditional national vacation periods when clients and candidates are on vacation.. Our revenue can vary because our clients can terminate their relationship with us at any time with limited or no penalty.. We provide professional mid-level personnel on temporary assignment-by-assignment basis, which clients can generally terminate at any time or reduce their level of use when compared to prior periods. Our professional recruitment business is also significantly affected by our clients' hiring needs and their views of their future prospects. These factors can also affect our RPO business. Clients may, on very short notice, terminate, reduce or postpone their recruiting assignments with us and, therefore, affect demand for our services. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our markets are highly competitive.. The markets for our services are highly competitive. Our markets are characterized by pressures to provide high levels of service, incorporate new capabilities and technologies, accelerate job completion schedules and reduce prices. Furthermore, we face competition from a number of sources. These sources include other executive search firms and professional search, staffing and consulting firms. Several of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Due to competition, we may experience reduced margins on our services, loss of market share and our customers. If we are not able to compete effectively with current or future competitors as a result of these and other factors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We have no significant proprietary technology that would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering the mid-level professional staffing markets. We cannot provide assurance that existing or future competitors will not develop or offer services that provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over our services. In addition, we believe that, with continuing development of information technology, the industries in which we compete may attract new competitors. Specifically, the increased use of the web-based and mobile technology may attract technology-oriented companies to the professional staffing industry. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to continue to compete effectively against existing or future competitors. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have had periods of negative cash flows and operating losses that may recur in the future.. We have experienced negative cash flows and reported operating and net losses in the past. For example, we had net losses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. We cannot provide any assurance that we will have positive cash flows or operating profitability in the future, particularly to the extent the global economy recovers slowly or slows down. If our revenue declines or if operating expenses exceed our expectations, we may not be profitable and may not generate positive operating cash flows.. Our credit facilities restrict our operating flexibility.. Our credit facilities contain various restrictions and covenants that restrict our operating flexibility including:. •borrowings limited to eligible receivables;. •lenders' ability to impose restrictions, such as payroll or other reserves;. • limitations on payments of dividends by our subsidiaries to us, which may restrict our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders;. • restrictions on our ability to make additional borrowings, or to consolidate, merge or otherwise fundamentally change our ownership;. • limitations on capital expenditures, investments, dispositions of assets, guarantees of indebtedness, permitted acquisitions and repurchases of stock; and. • limitations on certain intercompany payments of expenses, interest and dividends.. These restrictions and covenants could have adverse consequences for investors, including the consequences of our need. -. 6. -. to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service, rather than for our operations, restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt financing for future working capital or capital expenditures, a lesser ability for us to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, the potential need for us to undertake equity transactions which may dilute the ownership of existing investors, and our inability to react to market conditions by selling lesser-performing assets.. In addition, a default, amendment or waiver to our credit facilities to avoid a default may result in higher rates of interest and could impact our ability to obtain additional borrowings. Finally, debt incurred under our credit facilities bears interest at variable rates. Any increase in interest expense could reduce the funds available for operations.. Extensions of credit under our existing agreements are permitted based on a borrowing base, which is an agreed percentage of eligible accounts receivable, less required reserves, applicable letters of credit and outstanding borrowings. If the amount or quality of our accounts receivable deteriorates, then our ability to borrow under these credit facilities will be directly affected. Furthermore, our receivables facilities with National Australia Bank Limited and Bank of New Zealand do not have a stated maturity date and can be terminated by National Australia Bank Limited and Bank of New Zealand upon 90 days' written notice, and our receivables finance agreement with Lloyds Bank PLC and Lloyds Bank Commercial Finance can be terminated by Lloyds Bank PLC and Lloyds Bank Commercial Finance upon three months' written notice. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to borrow under these credit facilities if we need cash to fund working capital or other needs.. If sources of liquidity are not available or if we cannot generate sufficient cash flows from operations, then we may be. required to obtain additional sources of funds through additional operating improvements, capital markets transactions, asset sales or financing from third parties, or a combination thereof and, under certain conditions, such transactions could substantially dilute the ownership of existing stockholders. We cannot provide assurance that the additional sources of funds will be available, or if available, would have reasonable terms.. Our investment strategy subjects us to risks.. From time to time, we make investments as part of our growth plans. Investments may not perform as expected because they are dependent on a variety of factors, including our ability to effectively integrate new personnel and operations, our ability to sell new services, and our ability to retain existing or gain new clients. Furthermore, we may need to borrow more cash from lenders or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future investments and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us.. We face risks related to our international operations.. We conduct direct operations in 13 countries and face both translation and transaction risks related to foreign currency exchange. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 92% of our gross margin was earned outside of the United States (\"U.S.\"). Our financial results could be materially affected by a number of factors particular to international operations. These include, but are not limited to, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, operational issues such as longer customer payment cycles and greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, changes in tax laws or other regulatory requirements, issues relating to uncertainties of laws and enforcement relating to the regulation and protection of intellectual property, and currency fluctuation. If we are forced to discontinue any of our international operations, we could incur material costs to close down such operations.. Regarding the foreign currency risk inherent in international operations, the results of our local operations are reported in the applicable foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable foreign currency exchange rates for inclusion in our financial statements. In addition, we generally pay operating expenses in the corresponding local currency. Because of devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the revenue and income of our operations in addition to economic exposure. Our consolidated U.S. dollar cash balance could be lower because a significant amount of cash is generated outside of the U.S. This risk could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on our key management personnel.. Our success depends to a significant extent on our senior management team. The loss of the services of one or more key senior management team member could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if one or more key employees join a competitor or form a competing company, the resulting loss of existing or potential clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. -. 7. -. Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled professionals who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the staffing requirements of our clients. We must continually evaluate and upgrade our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing client needs and emerging technologies. Furthermore, a substantial number of our contractors during any given year may terminate their employment with us and accept regular staff employment with our clients. Competition for qualified professionals with proven skills is intense, and demand for these individuals is expected to remain strong for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that qualified personnel will continue to be available to us in sufficient numbers. If we are unable to attract the necessary qualified personnel for our clients, it may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face risks in collecting our accounts receivable.. In virtually all of our businesses, we invoice customers after providing services, which creates accounts receivable. Delays or defaults in payments owed to us could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Factors that could cause a delay or default include, but are not limited to, global economic conditions, business failures, and turmoil in the financial and credit markets.. In certain situations, we provide our services to clients under a contractual relationship with a third-party vendor manager, rather than directly to the client. In those circumstances, the third-party vendor manager is typically responsible for aggregating billing information, collecting receivables from the client and paying staffing suppliers once funds are received from the client. In the event that the client has paid the vendor manager for our services and we are unable to collect from the vendor manager, we may be exposed to financial losses.. If we are unable to maintain costs at an acceptable level, our operations could be adversely impacted.. Our ability to reduce costs in line with our revenues is important for the improvement of our profitability. Efforts to improve our efficiency could be affected by several factors including turnover, client demands, market conditions, changes in laws, and availability of talent. If we fail to realize the expected benefits of these cost reduction initiatives, this could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on our information systems, and if we lose our information processing capabilities or fail to further develop our technology, our business could be adversely affected.. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to store, retrieve, process, and manage substantial amounts of information, including our client and candidate databases. To achieve our strategic objectives and to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and enhance our information systems. This may require the acquisition of equipment and software and the development, either internally or through independent consultants, of new proprietary software. If we are unable to design, develop, implement and utilize, in a cost-effective manner, information systems that provide the capabilities necessary for us to compete effectively, or if we experience any interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities, for any reason, this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As we operate in an international environment, we are subject to greater cyber-security risks and incidents. We also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our candidates, clients and business partners. While we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our measures may not be effective and any security breaches or cyber incidents could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business depends on uninterrupted service to clients.. Our operations depend on our ability to protect our facilities, computer and telecommunication equipment and software systems against damage or interruption from fire, power loss, cyber attacks, sabotage, telecommunications interruption, weather conditions, natural disasters and other similar events. Additionally, severe weather can cause our employees or contractors to miss work and interrupt delivery of our service, potentially resulting in a loss of revenue. While interruptions of these types that have occurred in the past have not caused material disruption, it is not possible to predict the type, severity or frequency of interruptions in the future or their impact on our business.. -. 8. -. We may be exposed to employment-related claims, legal liability and costs from clients, employees and regulatory authorities that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and our insurance coverage may not cover all of our potential liability.. We are in the business of employing people and placing them in the workplaces of other businesses. Risks relating to these activities include:. • claims of misconduct or negligence on the part of our employees;. • claims by our employees of discrimination or harassment directed at them, including claims relating to actions of our clients;. • claims related to the employment of illegal aliens or unlicensed personnel;. • claims for payment of workers' compensation and other similar claims;. • claims for violations of wage and hour requirements;. • claims for entitlement to employee benefits;. • claims of errors and omissions of our temporary employees;. • claims by taxing authorities related to our independent contractors and the risk that such contractors could be considered employees for tax purposes;. • claims by candidates that we place for wrongful termination or denial of employment;. • claims related to our non-compliance with data protection laws, which require the consent of a candidate to transfer resumes and other data; and. • claims by our clients relating to our employees' misuse of client proprietary information, misappropriation of funds, other misconduct, criminal activity or similar claims.. We are exposed to potential claims with respect to the recruitment process. A client could assert a claim for matters such as breach of a blocking arrangement or recommending a candidate who subsequently proves to be unsuitable for the position filled. Similarly, a client could assert a claim for deceptive trade practices on the grounds that we failed to disclose certain referral information about the candidate or misrepresented material information about the candidate. Further, the current employer of a candidate whom we place could file a claim against us alleging interference with an employment contract. In addition, a candidate could assert an action against us for failure to maintain the confidentiality of the candidate's employment search or for alleged discrimination or other violations of employment law by one of our clients.. We may incur fines and other losses or negative publicity with respect to these problems. In addition, some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming to our management team, costly and could have a negative effect on our business. In some cases, we have agreed to indemnify our clients against some or all of these types of liabilities. We cannot assure that we will not experience these problems in the future, that our insurance will cover all claims, or that our insurance coverage will continue to be available at economically-feasible rates.. Our ability to utilize net operating loss carry-forwards may be limited.. The Company has U.S. net operating loss carry-forwards (\"NOLs\") that expire through 2037. Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code imposes an annual limitation on a corporation's ability to utilize NOLs if it experiences an \"ownership change.\" In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by greater than 50% over a three-year period. The Company has experienced ownership changes in the past. Ownership changes in our stock, some of which are outside of our control, could result in a limitation in our ability to use our NOLs to offset future taxable income, could cause U.S. Federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitation were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs.. -. 9. -. There may be volatility in our stock price.. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated in the past and could fluctuate substantially in the future. For example, during 2017, the market price of our common stock reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from a high of $2.40 to a low of $1.00. Factors such as general macroeconomic conditions adverse to workforce expansion, the announcement of variations in our quarterly financial results or changes in our expected financial results could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. Further, due to the volatility of the stock market, our relatively low daily trading volume or actions by significant stockholders, the price of our common stock could fluctuate for reasons unrelated to our operating performance.. Our future earnings could be reduced as a result of the imposition of licensing or tax requirements or new regulations that prohibit, or restrict certain types of employment services we offer.. In many jurisdictions in which we operate, the provision of temporary staffing is heavily regulated. For example, governmental regulations can restrict the length of contracts of contract employees and the industries in which they may be used. In some countries, special taxes, fees or costs are imposed in connection with the use of contract workers.. The countries in which we operate may:. • create additional regulations that prohibit or restrict the types of employment services that we currently provide;. • impose new or additional benefit requirements;. • require us to obtain additional licensing to provide staffing services;. • impose new or additional restrictions on movements between countries;. • increase taxes, such as sales or value-added taxes, payable by the providers of staffing services;. • increase the number of various tax and compliance audits relating to a variety of regulations, including wage and hour laws, unemployment taxes, workers' compensation, immigration, and income, value-added and sales taxes; or. • revise transfer pricing laws or successfully challenge our transfer prices, which may result in higher foreign taxes or tax liabilities or double taxation of our foreign operations.. Any future regulations that make it more difficult or expensive for us to continue to provide our staffing services may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law will make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us.. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain several provisions that make it more difficult to acquire control of us in a transaction not approved by our Board of Directors, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices, and that may limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws currently include provisions:. • authorizing our Board of Directors to issue shares of our preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of our stockholders;. • requiring that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder nomination of directors or any new business to be considered at any meeting of stockholders; and. • providing that vacancies on our Board of Directors will be filled by the remaining directors then in office.. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally provides that a corporation may not engage. -. 10. -. in any business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the time that the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors then in office approve either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are met."
