[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. We seek to identify, manage, and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. You should consider the following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase our securities.. We depend heavily on a single customer, the U.S. Government, for substantially all of our business, and changes affecting this customer's priorities and spending could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Our business consists primarily of the design, construction, repair, and maintenance of nuclear-powered ships, such as aircraft carriers and submarines, and non-nuclear ships, such as surface combatants and expeditionary warfare and amphibious assault ships, for the U.S. Navy and coastal defense surface ships for the U.S. Coast Guard, as well as the refueling and overhaul and inactivation of nuclear-powered ships for the U.S. Navy. Substantially all of our revenues in 2017 were derived from products and services sold to the U.S. Government, and we expect this to continue in the foreseeable future. In addition, most of our backlog as of December 31, 2017, was U.S. Government related. Our U.S. Government contracts are subject to various risks, including our customers' political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in customers' short-range and long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, significant changes in contract scheduling, intense contract and funding competition, difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules for bids on developmental and sophisticated technical work, and contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal or regulatory requirements. Any of these factors could affect our business with the U.S. Government, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Significant delays or reductions in appropriations for our programs, changes in customer priorities, and potential contract terminations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. We are directly dependent upon congressional funding of U.S. Navy and U.S. Coast Guard programs. The funding of U.S. Government programs is subject to congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes. For certain programs, Congress appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may be performed over several fiscal years. Consequently, programs are often partially funded initially and receive additional funding only as Congress makes additional appropriations. If we incur costs in excess of existing funding on a contract, we may be at risk for recovery of those costs unless and until additional funds are appropriated. We cannot predict the extent to which total funding or funding for individual programs will be included, increased, or reduced as part of the annual budget process or through continuing resolutions or individual supplemental appropriations.. The impact of Congressional actions to reduce the federal debt and resulting pressures on federal spending could adversely affect the total funding of individual contracts or funding for individual programs and delay purchasing or payment decisions by our customers. In August 2011, the Budget Control Act (the \"BCA\") established limits on U.S. Government discretionary spending, including a reduction of defense spending by approximately $487 billion from fiscal years 2012 through 2021, representing approximately 8% of planned defense spending. The BCA also provided that the defense budget would face \"sequestration\" cuts of up to an additional $500 billion during that same period to the extent that discretionary spending limits are exceeded, representing approximately 9% of planned defense spending, and $500 billion for non-defense discretionary spending, including the U.S. Coast Guard.. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (the \"BBA 2018\") provided sequestration relief for fiscal years 2018 and 2019.  Sequestration remains in effect, however, for fiscal years 2020 and 2021. Long-term uncertainty is continuing with respect to overall levels of defense spending across the future years defense plan, and it is likely that U.S. Government discretionary spending levels will continue to be subject to significant pressure. For additional information relating to the U.S. defense budget, see the Business Environment section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7.. Demand for our products and services can also be affected by potential changes in customer priorities due to changes in military strategy and planning. In response to the need for cheaper alternatives and the proliferation of \"smart weapons,\" future strategy reassessments by the DoD may result in decreased demand for our shipbuilding programs, including our aircraft carrier programs. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our aircraft carrier. 11. programs accounted for approximately 31% of our consolidated revenue. We cannot predict the impact of changes to customer priorities on existing, follow-on, replacement, or future programs. A shift of priorities to programs in which we do not participate and related reductions in funding for or the termination of programs in which we do participate could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. The U.S. Government generally has the ability to terminate contracts, in whole or in part, with little or no prior notice, for convenience or for default based on performance. In the event of termination of a contract for the U.S. Government's convenience, a contractor is normally able to recover costs already incurred on the contract and receive profit on those costs up to the amount authorized under the contract, but not the anticipated profit that would have been earned had the contract been completed. Such a termination could also result in the cancellation of future work on the related program. Termination resulting from our default can expose us to various liabilities, including excess re-procurement costs, and could negatively affect our ability to compete for future contracts. Any contract termination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. Cost growth on flexibly priced contracts that cannot be justified as increases in contract value due from customers exposes us to reduced profitability and to the potential loss of future business.. Our operating income is adversely affected when we incur certain contract costs or certain increases in contract costs that cannot be billed to customers. Cost growth can occur if expenses to complete a contract increase due to technical challenges, manufacturing difficulties, delays, workforce-related issues, or inaccurate estimates used to calculate contract costs initially. Reasons may include unavailability or reduced productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work performed, the timeliness and availability of materials, major subcontractor performance or product quality issues, performance delays, availability and timing of funding from the customer, and natural disasters. The process of estimating contract costs requires significant judgment and expertise. A significant increase in contract costs from our original cost estimates on one or more contracts could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Our ability to recover the costs we incur and realize profits on contracts with our U.S. government customers depends on the type of contract under which we are performing. Our U.S. Government business is currently performed under firm fixed price (\"FFP\"), fixed price incentive (\"FPI\"), cost plus incentive fee (\"CPIF\"), cost plus fixed fee (\"CPFF\"), and cost plus award fee (\"CPAF\") contracts. Under FFP contracts, we retain all cost savings on completed contracts but are responsible for the full amount of all expenditures in excess of the contract price. FPI contracts, on the other hand, are flexibly priced agreements under which cost overruns and underruns to an agreed target cost are shared between the U.S. Government and us. The U.S. Government is liable for its share of allowable costs up to a ceiling price, and we are responsible for all costs incurred in excess of such ceiling price, typically 125-135% of target cost. Our profit on FPI contracts varies according to a contract formula that generally compares the amount of costs incurred to the contract target cost. Under CPIF, CPFF, and CPAF contracts, we are generally required to perform the contract only to the extent the U.S. Government makes funds available, and we recover all allowable costs incurred in the performance of the contract. Under CPIF contracts, our profit is determined by a contractually specified formula that compares allowable incurred costs to the contract target cost, subject in some instances to a maximum or minimum fee percentage. Under CPFF contracts, the dollar amount of profit received is the same without regard to the amount of costs incurred. Under CPAF contracts, the dollar amount of profit received is determined by the award fee provisions in the contract.. Of Ingalls' revenues in 2017, approximately 89% were generated from FPI contracts, approximately 5% were generated from CPAF contracts, approximately 3% were generated from CPFF contracts, and approximately 3% were generated from FFP contracts. Of Newport News' 2017 revenues, approximately 50% were generated from CPFF contracts, approximately 41% were generated from FPI contracts, and approximately 9% were generated from CPIF contracts. Of Technical Solutions' revenues in 2017, approximately 33% were generated from time and material contracts, approximately 28% were generated from CPFF contracts, approximately 29% were generated from FFP contracts, approximately 7% were generated from CPAF contracts, approximately 1% were generated from FPI contracts, and approximately 2% were generated from CPIF contracts. To the extent our mix of contract types changes in the future, our ability to recover our costs and realize profits on our contracts could be negatively affected.. 12. Our earnings and profitability depend upon our ability to perform our contracts.. When agreeing to contract terms, we make assumptions and projections about future conditions and events, many of which extend over long periods. Our assumptions and projections are based, among other matters, upon our assessments of the productivity and availability of labor, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, the impact of delayed performance, and the timing of product deliveries. We may experience significant variances from our assumptions and projections, delays in our contract performance, and variances in the timing of our product deliveries. If our actual experience differs significantly from our assumptions or projections or we incur unanticipated contract costs, the profitability of the related contracts may be adversely affected.. Our earnings and profitability depend, in part, upon subcontractor performance and raw material and component availability and pricing.. We rely on third parties to provide raw materials, major components and sub-systems, hardware elements, and sub-assemblies for our products and to perform certain services we provide to our customers, and to do so in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Disruptions and performance problems caused by our suppliers and subcontractors, or a misalignment between our contractual obligations to our customers and our agreements with our subcontractors and suppliers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers. Our ability to perform our obligations on a timely basis could be adversely affected if one or more of our suppliers or subcontractors are unable to provide the agreed-upon products or materials or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely, compliant and cost-effective manner or otherwise fail to satisfy contractual requirements.  The inability of our suppliers or subcontractors to perform could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate parties, which could result in significant incremental cost and delay, or the need for us to provide other supplemental means to support our existing suppliers and subcontractors.. Our costs to manufacture our products can increase over the terms of our contracts, including as a result of increases in material costs. We may be protected from increases in material costs through cost escalation provisions in some of our contracts, to the extent that such increases are consistent with industry indices. Even with these provisions, however, the difference in basis between our actual material costs and these indices may expose us to cost uncertainty. In addition, significant delays in deliveries of key raw materials, which may occur as a result of availability or price, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. In some cases, only one supplier may exist for certain components and parts required to manufacture our products. The inability of a sole source supplier to provide a necessary component or part in a timely, compliant, or cost-effective manner could increase our contract cost and affect our ability to perform our contract.. Our procurement practices are intended to provide quality materials and services to support our programs and to reduce the likelihood of our procurement of unauthorized, non-compliant, or deficient materials and services. We rely on our subcontractors and suppliers to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and the expectations set forth in the HII Supplier Code of Conduct regarding the materials and services we procure from them. In some circumstances, we rely on representations and certifications from our subcontractors and suppliers regarding their compliance. We also work with subcontractors and suppliers to conduct technical assessments, inspections, and audits, as necessary. Notwithstanding the actions we take to mitigate the risk of receiving materials and services that fail to meet specifications or requirements, subcontractors and suppliers have in the past provided us with unauthorized, non-compliant, or deficient materials and services.. Our inability to procure, or a significant delay in acquiring, necessary raw materials, components, or parts, the failure of our subcontractors or suppliers to comply with applicable laws and regulations, inaccurate certifications from our subcontractors and suppliers regarding their compliance, or noncompliant materials, components, or parts we acquire from our subcontractors and suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. 13. Changes to Department of Defense business practices could have a material effect on DoD's procurement process and adversely impact our current programs and potential new awards.. The defense industry has experienced, and we expect will continue to experience, significant changes to business practices resulting from an increased focus by DoD on affordability, efficiencies, business systems, recovery of costs, and a reprioritization of available defense funds to key areas for future defense spending. The DoD continues to adjust its procurement practices, requirements criteria, and source selection methodology in an ongoing effort to reduce costs, gain efficiencies, and enhance program management and control. We expect DoD's focus on business practices to impact the contracting environment in which we operate as we and others in the industry adjust our practices to address the DoD's initiatives and the reduced level of spending by the DoD. Depending on how these initiatives are implemented, they could have an impact on our current programs, as well as new business opportunities with the DoD. In addition to DOD's business practice initiatives, the DCMA and DCAA have implemented cost recovery/cost savings initiatives to prioritize efforts to recover costs. As a result of certain of these initiatives, we have experienced and may continue to experience a higher number of audits and/or lengthened periods of time required to close open audits. In addition, the thresholds for certain allowable costs, including compensation costs, have been significantly reduced, and other thresholds are being challenged, debated, and, in certain cases, modified. Significant changes to the thresholds for allowable costs could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost, requiring us to develop and maintain technologies, facilities, equipment, and a qualified workforce to meet the needs of current and future customers.. Shipbuilding is a long cycle business, and our success depends on quality, cost, and schedule performance on our contracts. Our success depends upon our ability to develop and maintain the workforce, technologies, facilities, equipment, and financial capacity needed to deliver our products and services at an affordable life cycle cost. If we fail to maintain our competitive position in these areas, we could lose future contracts to our competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Our operating results are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract and retain at competitive costs a sufficient number of engineers and workers with the necessary skills and security clearances. At the same time, stable future revenues and costs are important for us to maintain a qualified workforce. Development and maintenance of the necessary nuclear expertise and the challenges of hiring and training a qualified workforce can be a limitation on our business. If qualified personnel become scarce, we could experience higher labor, recruiting, or training costs to attract and retain qualified employees, or, if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, we could incur difficulties performing our contracts and attracting new contract awards.. Competition within our markets or an increase in bid protests may reduce our revenues and market share.. U.S. defense spending levels are uncertain and difficult to predict. The reduction in shipbuilding activity by the U.S. Navy, evidenced by the reduction in fleet size from 566 ships in 1989 to 280 ships as of December 31, 2017, has resulted in workforce reductions in the industry but little infrastructure consolidation. The general result has been fewer contracts awarded to the same fixed number of shipyards. Six major private United States shipyards, three of which we own, plus many other smaller private shipyards compete for contracts to construct, overhaul, repair, and convert naval vessels. Additionally, our products, such as aircraft carriers, submarines, amphibious assault ships, surface combatants, and other ships, compete for funding with each other, as well as with other defense products and services. We expect competition for future shipbuilding programs to be intense.. We compete with another large defense contractor for construction contracts to build surface combatants, submarines, and large deck amphibious ships. We may in the future compete with the same and other defense contractors to build other ships for which we are currently the sole source, including expeditionary warfare and other amphibious assault ships. Moreover, reductions in U.S. defense spending that reduce the demand for the types of ships we build and services we provide increase our risk exposure to market competition. If we are unable to continue to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, we may experience lower revenues and market share, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. 14. Although we are the only company currently capable of refueling nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, two existing U.S. Government-owned shipyards may be able to refuel nuclear-powered aircraft carriers if substantial investments in facilities, personnel, and training were made. U.S. Government-owned shipyards currently engage in the refueling, overhaul, and inactivation of Los Angeles class (SSN 688) submarines and are capable of repairing and overhauling non-nuclear ships. If a U.S. Government-owned shipyard became capable and engaged in the refueling of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers, our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected.. We also compete in the shipbuilding engineering, planning, and design market with other companies that provide engineering support services. Such competition increases the risk we may not be the successful bidder on future U.S. Navy engineering proposals, including aircraft carrier research and development, submarine design, and surface combatant and amphibious assault ship program contracts.. Our competitive environment is also affected by bid protests from unsuccessful bidders on new program awards. As the competitive environment intensifies, the number of bid protests may increase. Bid protests can result in an award decision being overturned, requiring a re-bid of the contract. Even when a bid protest does not result in a re-bid, resolution of the matter typically extends the time until contract performance can begin, which may reduce our earnings in the period in which the contract would otherwise be performed.. As a U.S. Government contractor, we are heavily regulated and could be adversely affected by changes in regulations or negative findings from a U.S. Government audit or investigation.. As a U.S. Government contractor, we must comply with significant regulatory requirements, including those relating to procurement, cyber security, and nuclear operations. Government contracting requirements increase our contract performance and compliance costs and risks and change on a routine basis. In addition, our nuclear operations are subject to an enhanced regulatory environment, which results in increased performance and compliance efforts and costs. New laws, regulations, or procurement requirements, or changes to existing ones (including, for example, regulations related to recovery of compensation costs, cyber security, counterfeit parts, specialty metals, and conflict minerals), can increase our performance and compliance costs and risks and reduce our profitability.. We are routinely audited and reviewed by the U.S. Government and its various agencies, including the U.S. Navy's Supervisor of Shipbuilding, the DCAA, and the DCMA. These agencies review our contract performance, cost structures, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, as well as the adequacy of our business systems and processes relative to U.S. Government requirements. If an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings, which could result in fines, penalties, repayments, or compensatory, treble, or other damages. Certain U.S. Government findings against a contractor can also lead to suspension or debarment from future U.S. Government contracts or the loss of export privileges. Allegations of impropriety can also cause us significant reputational harm.. Whether or not illegal activities are alleged, the U.S. Government has the ability to decrease or withhold contract payments if it determines significant deficiencies exist in business systems subject to its review. In the past the U.S. Government has, in certain instances, withheld contract payments upon its assessment that deficiencies existed with one or more of our business systems. When appropriate, we must modify our affected business systems to address the U.S. Government's determinations.. The U.S. Government has, from time to time, recommended that certain of our contract prices be reduced, or that certain costs allocated to our contracts be disallowed. These recommendations sometimes involve substantial dollar amounts. In response to U.S. Government audits, investigations, and inquiries, we have also in the past made adjustments to our contract prices and the costs allocated to our government contracts. Such audits, investigations, and inquiries may result in future reductions of our contract prices. Any costs we incur that are determined to be unallowable or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be recovered or must be refunded if previously reimbursed.. We must comply with a variety of federal laws and regulations, including the FAR, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the False Claims Act, the Procurement Integrity Act, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, the Close the Contractor Fraud Loophole Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and Cost Accounting Standards. If a determination is made that we engaged in illegal activities or did not act responsibly, as defined by the law, we may be subject to reductions in contract values, contract modifications or terminations,. 15. penalties, fines, repayments, compensatory, treble, or other damages, or suspension or debarment, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities or state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise, include technological complexity, or are dependent upon factors not wholly within our control, and failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects.. We design, develop, and manufacture products and provide services applied by our customers in a variety of environments. Problems and delays in product development or with delivery of subcontractor components or services as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and intellectual property rights, labor, learning curve assumptions, or materials and parts could prevent us from satisfying contractual requirements.. First-in-class ships, also known as lead ships, usually include new technology that is supplied by the U.S. Navy, other contractors, or us. Problems developing these new technologies or design changes in the construction process can lead to delays in the design schedule for construction. The risks associated with new technology or mid-construction design changes can both increase the cost of a ship and delay delivery. Late delivery of information can also cause inefficiencies in the construction process, increase costs, and put the delivery schedule at risk, which could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects.. Our products cannot always be tested and proven and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems, including premature failure of products that cannot be accessed for repair or replacement, substandard quality or workmanship, and unplanned degradation of product performance. These failures could result in loss of life or property and could negatively affect our results of operations by causing unanticipated expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus to respond to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the customer of contract costs and fee payments previously received.. We periodically experience quality issues with respect to products and services that we sell to our U.S. Government customers. These issues can and have required significant resources to analyze the source of the deficiencies and implement corrective actions. We may discover quality issues in the future related to our products and services that require analysis and corrective action. Such issues and our responses and corrective actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. We use estimates when accounting for contracts. Changes in estimates could affect our profitability and our overall financial position.. Contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions regarding schedule and technical issues. The size and nature of many of our contracts make the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion complicated and subject to many variables. For new shipbuilding programs, we estimate, negotiate, and contract for construction of ships that are not completely designed, which subjects our risk assessments, revenue and cost estimates, and assumptions regarding schedule and technical issues to the variability of the final ship design and evolving scope of work. Our judgment, estimation, and assumption processes are significant to our contract accounting, and materially different amounts can be generated if different assumptions are used or if actual events differ from our assumptions. Future changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances, or estimates may have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. See Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments in Item 7.. Our business is subject to disruption caused by natural disasters, environmental disasters, and other events that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. We have significant operations located in regions of the United States that have been and may in the future be exposed to damaging storms, such as hurricanes and floods, and environmental disasters, such as oil spills. Natural disasters can disrupt our workforce, electrical and other power distribution networks, computer and internet operations and accessibility, and the critical industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations, which could adversely affect our contract performance and financial results. Environmental disasters, particularly oil spills in waterways and bodies of water used for the transport and testing of our ships, can disrupt the timing of performance under our contracts with the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Coast Guard.. 16. Damage and disruption resulting from natural and environmental disasters may be significant. Should insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms be unavailable or insufficient to recover material costs associated with natural or environmental disasters or other events, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. See Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position.. Our suppliers and subcontractors are also subject to natural and environmental disasters that could affect their ability to deliver products or services or otherwise perform their contracts. Performance failures by our subcontractors due to natural or environmental disasters may adversely affect our ability to perform our contracts, which could reduce our profitability in the event damages or other costs are not recoverable from the subcontractor, the customer, or insurers. Such events could also result in a termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts.. In addition to the types of events described above, operation of our facilities may be disrupted by civil unrest, acts of sabotage or terrorism, and other local security concerns. Such events may require us to incur greater costs for security or to shut down operations for a period of time.. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all of our significant risks or our insurers may deny coverage of material losses we incur, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial position.. We seek to negotiate and enter into insurance agreements to cover our significant risks and potential liabilities, including, among others, property loss from natural disasters, product liability, and business interruption resulting from an insured property loss. In some circumstances, we may be indemnified for losses by the U.S. Government, subject to the availability of appropriated funds. Not every risk or liability can be protected by insurance, and, for insurable risks, the limits of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover the full amount of actual losses or liabilities incurred, including, for example, in the case of a catastrophic hurricane. In addition, the nature of our business makes it difficult to quantify the disruptive impact of such events. Limitations on the availability of insurance coverage may result in us bearing substantial costs for uninsured losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Even in cases where we have insurance coverage, disputes with insurance carriers over coverage may affect the timing of cash flows, and, in the event of litigation with an insurance carrier, an outcome unfavorable to us may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements.. Approximately 50% of our employees are covered by a total of nine collective bargaining agreements and two DoE site stabilization agreements. Newport News has four collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, one of which covers approximately 50% of Newport News employees and was renewed in July 2017. The remaining collective bargaining agreements at Newport News expire in August 2018, December 2018, and November 2020. Newport News craft workers employed at the Kesselring Site near Saratoga Springs, New York are represented under an indefinite DoE site agreement. Ingalls has five collective bargaining agreements covering represented employees, all of which expire in March 2022.  Approximately 35 Technical Solutions craft employees at the Hanford Site near Richland, Washington are represented under an indefinite DoE site stabilization agreement.. Collective bargaining agreements generally expire after three to five years, and we negotiate successor agreements as each of our collective bargaining agreements expires. While we believe we maintain good relationships with our represented workers, it is possible we may experience difficulties renegotiating expiring collective bargaining agreements. We have, in the past, experienced work stoppages, strikes, and other labor disruptions associated with the collective bargaining of new labor agreements. If we experience such events in the future, we could incur additional expenses or work delays that could adversely affect programs served by employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements.. 17. Changes in key estimates and assumptions, such as discount rates and assumed long-term returns on assets, actual investment returns on our pension plan assets, and legislative and regulatory actions could significantly affect our earnings, financial condition, and contributions to our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans in future periods.. Our pension and retiree health care costs are dependent upon significant judgment regarding various estimates and assumptions, particularly with respect to the discount rate and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. Changes to these estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Differences between actual investment returns and our assumed long-term returns on assets will result in future changes in pension expense and the funded status of our plans, and could increase future funding of the plans.. Unforeseen environmental costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Our operations are subject to and affected by a variety of existing federal, state, and local environmental protection laws and regulations. In addition, we could be affected by future laws or regulations, including those imposed in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the environment, or natural resources. We expect to incur future capital and operating costs to comply with current and future environmental laws and regulations, and such costs could be substantial, depending on the future proliferation of environmental rules and regulations and the extent to which we discover currently unknown environmental conditions.. Shipbuilding operations require the use of hazardous materials. Our shipyards also generate significant quantities of wastewater, which we treat before discharging pursuant to various permits. To handle these materials, our shipyards have an extensive network of aboveground and underground storage tanks, some of which have leaked and required remediation in the past. In addition, our handling of hazardous materials has sometimes resulted in spills in our shipyards and occasionally in adjacent rivers and waterways in which we operate. Our shipyards maintain extensive waste handling programs that we periodically modify, consistent with changes in applicable laws and regulations. See Environmental, Health and Safety in Item 1.. Various federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations impose restrictions on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the transportation, storage, and disposal of toxic and hazardous wastes. Substantial fines, penalties, and criminal sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance, and certain environmental laws impose joint and several \"strict liability\" for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances.  Such laws and regulations render a party liable for environmental cleanup and remediation costs and damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such party and could expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by third parties.. In addition to fines, penalties, and criminal sanctions, environmental laws and regulations may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit pollution emissions or discharges and/or to decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous material releases. We expect to continue to incur costs to comply with federal and state environmental laws and regulations related to the cleanup of pollutants released into the environment. In addition, if we are found to be in violation of the Clean Air Act or the Clean Water Act, the facility or facilities involved in the violation could be placed by the EPA on the \"Excluded Parties List\" maintained by the General Services Administration, which would continue until the EPA concluded that the cause of the violation was cured. Facilities on the \"Excluded Parties List\" are prohibited from working on any U.S. Government contract.. The adoption of new environmental laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, imposition of new cleanup requirements, discovery of previously unknown or more extensive contamination, litigation involving environmental impacts, our inability to recover related costs under our government contracts, or the financial insolvency of other responsible parties could cause us to incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. We ceased shipbuilding construction at our Avondale, Louisiana shipyard in 2014. Our wind down of operations at this shipyard may result in environmental costs, the amount of which we cannot currently estimate. Such costs could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. 18. Market volatility and adverse capital market conditions may affect our ability to access cost-effective sources of funding and may expose us to risks associated with the financial viability of suppliers and subcontractors.. The financial markets can experience high levels of volatility and disruption, reducing the availability of credit for certain issuers. We may access these markets from time to time to support certain business activities, including funding acquisitions and capital expansion projects and refinancing existing indebtedness. We also access these markets to obtain credit support for our workers' compensation self-insurance program and arrange for letters of credit. A number of factors could cause us to incur higher borrowing costs and to have greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for debt. These factors include disruptions or declines in the global capital markets and/or a decline in our financial performance, outlook, or credit ratings. The occurrence of any or all of these events may adversely affect our ability to fund our operations, meet contractual commitments, make future investments or desirable acquisitions, or respond to competitive challenges.. Tightening capital markets could also adversely affect our suppliers' and subcontractors' ability to obtain financing. Delays in suppliers' or subcontractors' ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing, could negatively affect their ability to perform their contracts with us and cause our inability to perform our contracts. The inability of our suppliers and subcontractors to obtain financing could also result in the need for us to transition to alternate suppliers and subcontractors, which could result in significant incremental costs and delays.. Our reputation and our ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents, or business partners.. Our compliance program includes detailed compliance plans and related compliance controls, policies, procedures, and training designed to prevent and detect misconduct by employees, agents, business partners, and others working on our behalf, including suppliers and subcontractors, that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including laws governing payments to government officials, the protection of export controlled or classified information, cost accounting and billing, competition, and data privacy. Our business has been impacted in the past by the improper misconduct of employees and business partners, and we may not prevent all such misconduct in the future by our employees, agents, business partners, and others working on our behalf, including suppliers and subcontractors. Moreover, the risk of improper conduct may be expected to increase as we expand into commercial markets and foreign jurisdictions. Any improper actions by our employees, agents, business partners, and others working on our behalf, including suppliers and subcontractors, could subject us to administrative, civil, or criminal investigations and monetary and non-monetary penalties, including suspension or debarment, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Any such improper actions could also cause us significant reputational damage.. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions.. As a defense contractor, we rely on our information technology infrastructure to process, transmit, and store electronic information, including classified and other sensitive information of the U.S. Government. While we maintain stringent information security policies and protocols, we face cyber security and other security threats to our information technology infrastructure, including threats to our and the U.S. Government's proprietary and classified information. We face unauthorized and unlawful attempts to gain access to our information technology infrastructure, including coordinated attacks from groups of hackers, and we could also face attempts to gain physical access to classified and other sensitive information located at our facilities. Our information technology infrastructure is critical to the efficient operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations. Breaches of our information technology infrastructure or physical facilities could cause us to incur significant recovery and restoration expenses; degrade performance on existing contracts; and expose us to reputational damage, potential liability, or the loss of current or future contracts, including work on sensitive or classified systems for the U.S. Government, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. In addition, our suppliers, subcontractors, and other business partners face cyber security and other security threats. Although we work cooperatively with our customers, suppliers, subcontractors, and other business partners to seek to minimize the impact of cyber threats, other security threats, and business disruptions, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by these entities, which may affect the security of our information. These entities have. 19. varying levels of cyber security expertise and safeguards, and their relationships with U.S. Government contractors may increase the likelihood that they are targeted by the same cyber security threats we face.. Our nuclear operations subject us to various environmental, regulatory, financial, and other risks.. The design, construction, refueling and overhaul, repair, and inactivation of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and nuclear-powered submarines, our nuclear facilities used to support such activities, our nuclear operations at DoE sites, and our activities in the commercial nuclear market subject us to various risks, including:. • Potential liabilities relating to harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from nuclear operations and the storage, handling, and disposal of radioactive materials, including nuclear assemblies and their components;. • Unplanned expenditures relating to maintenance, operation, security, and repair, including repairs required by the U.S. Navy, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or the DoE;. • Reputational harm;. • Potential liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident whether or not it is within our control; and. • Regulatory noncompliance and loss of authorizations or indemnifications necessary for our operations.. Failure to properly handle nuclear materials could pose a health risk to humans or wildlife and could cause personal injury and property damage, including environmental contamination. If a nuclear accident were to occur, its severity could be significantly affected by the volume of the materials and the speed of corrective action taken by us and emergency response personnel, as well as other factors beyond our control, such as weather and wind conditions. Actions we might take in response to an accident could result in significant costs.. Our nuclear operations are subject to various safety related requirements imposed by the U.S. Navy, DoE, and Nuclear Regulatory Commission. In the event of noncompliance, these agencies may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines, or shut down our operations, depending on their assessment of the severity of the noncompliance. In addition, new or revised security and safety requirements imposed by the U.S. Navy, DoE, and Nuclear Regulatory Commission could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures.. Subject to certain requirements and limitations, our contracts with the U.S. Navy and DoE generally provide for indemnity by the U.S. Government for costs arising out of or resulting from our nuclear operations. We may not, however, be indemnified for all liabilities we may incur in connection with our nuclear operations. To mitigate risks related to our commercial nuclear operations, we rely primarily on insurance carried by nuclear facility operators and our own limited insurance for losses in excess of the coverage of facility operators. Such insurance, however, may not be sufficient to cover our costs in the event of an accident or business interruption relating to our commercial nuclear operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.. Changes in future business conditions could cause business investments, recorded goodwill, and/or purchased intangible assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our operating income.. As part of our business strategy, we acquire non-controlling and controlling interests in businesses. We make acquisitions and investments following careful analysis and due diligence processes designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. Business acquisitions generally involve estimates, assumptions, and judgments to determine acquisition prices, which prices are allocated among acquired assets, including goodwill, based upon fair market values. Notwithstanding our analyses, due diligence processes, and business integration efforts, actual operating results of acquired businesses may vary significantly from initial estimates. In such events, we may be required to write down our carrying value of the related goodwill and/or purchased intangible assets. In addition, declines in the trading price of our common stock or the market as a whole can result in goodwill and/or purchased intangible asset impairment charges.. As of December 31, 2017, goodwill and purchased intangible assets generated from prior business acquisitions accounted for approximately 19% and 8%, respectively, of our total assets. We evaluate goodwill values for impairment annually on November 30, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. We also evaluate the values of purchased intangible assets when evidence of potential impairment exists. The impairment tests are. 20. based on several factors requiring judgment. As a general matter, a significant decrease in expected cash flows or changes in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill or purchased intangible assets.. In 2015, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $75 million at our Technical Solutions segment within the oil and gas reporting unit. The oil and gas reporting unit is sensitive to developments in the oil and gas industry. The goodwill impairment charges were primarily driven by continuing declines in oil prices and the resulting decreases in industry market multiples. In 2015, we also recorded an intangible asset impairment charge of $27 million at our Technical Solutions segment as a result of declining market conditions and updated expectations.. Adverse equity market conditions that result in a decline in market multiples and the trading price of our common stock, or other events, such as reductions in future contract awards or significant adverse changes in our operating margins or the operating results of acquired businesses that vary significantly from projected results on which purchase prices are based, could result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. Any such impairments that result in us recording additional goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability and cash flow.. We are subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, the ultimate tax determination of many of our transactions and calculations is uncertain. In addition, timing differences in the recognition of contract income for financial statement purposes and for income tax purposes can cause uncertainty with respect to the timing of income tax payments, which can have a significant impact on cash flow in a particular period.. Changes in applicable income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates or changes in the taxability of certain transactions or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into law. The Tax Act provides for significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, that impact corporations, including a reduction of the statutory federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and changes or limitations to certain deductions. While our accounting for elements of the Tax Act is incomplete, we were able to make reasonable estimates of the effects of certain provisions of the Tax Act and recorded corresponding provisional adjustments. There remain certain elements for which we cannot yet make reasonable estimates, however, and we cannot determine at this time the full effects in future years of the Tax Act on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. See Note 13: Income Taxes in Item 8.. In addition, the final results of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our related historical income tax provisions and accruals. Changes in our tax rate as a result of changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in differences between financial statement income and taxable income, the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities, and continuing assessments of our tax exposures can also impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, profitability, and cash flow.. We conduct a portion of our operations through joint ventures and strategic alliances. We may have limited control over such arrangements and experience returns that are not proportional to the risks and resources we contribute.. We conduct a portion of our operations through joint ventures with business partners. In any joint venture arrangement, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or in failures to reach agreement on major issues. We and our joint venture partners may, in certain instances, fail to reach agreement on significant decisions on a timely basis, or at all. We also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any non-performance, default, or bankruptcy of our joint venture partners, and we typically share liability or have joint and/or several liability with our joint venture partners for joint venture matters. Any of these factors could potentially have a material adverse effect on our joint venture operations and the profitability of our joint ventures.. In joint ventures in which we hold a minority interest, we have limited control over many decisions relating to joint venture operations and internal controls relating to operations. These joint ventures may not be subject to the same. 21. requirements regarding internal controls and internal control reporting that apply to us. As a result, internal control issues may arise that could have a material adverse effect on the joint venture. In addition, in order to establish or preserve relationships with our joint venture partners, we may agree to assume risks and contribute resources that are proportionately greater than the returns we expect to receive in the related joint venture. Such agreements may reduce our income and returns on these investments compared to what we would have received if our assumed risks and contributed resources were proportionate to our returns.. Strategic acquisitions and investments we pursue involve risks and uncertainties.. As part of our business strategy, we review, evaluate, and consider potential acquisitions and investments. In evaluating such transactions, we make difficult judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies, and other assets, the risks and costs of potential liabilities, and the future prospects of business opportunities. In addition, acquisitions and investments involve other risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of integrating acquired businesses, challenges achieving strategic objectives and other benefits anticipated from acquisitions or investments, the diversion of management attention and resources from our existing operations and other initiatives, the potential impairment of acquired assets, and the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses. Our financial results, business, and future prospects could be adversely affected by unanticipated performance issues at acquired businesses, transaction-related charges, unexpected liabilities, amortization of expenses related to purchased intangible assets, and charges for impairments of goodwill and purchased intangible assets.. We are subject to claims and litigation that could ultimately be resolved against us, requiring future material cash payments and/or future material charges against our operating income, materially impairing our financial position or cash flows.. The size, nature, and complexity of our business make it highly susceptible to claims and litigation. We are subject to various administrative, civil, and criminal litigation, environmental claims, income tax matters, compliance matters, claims, and investigations, which could divert financial and management resources and result in fines, penalties, compensatory, treble or other damages, or nonmonetary relief. Government regulations also provide that certain allegations against a contractor may lead to suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of export privileges. Suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on us because of our reliance on government contracts and authorizations. Litigation, claims, or investigations, if ultimately resolved against us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Any litigation, claim, or investigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future.. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to compete.. We own patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other forms of intellectual property related to our business, and we license intellectual property rights to and from third parties. The U.S. Government generally receives non-exclusive licenses to certain intellectual property we develop in the performance of U.S. Government contracts, and the U.S. Government may use or authorize others to use such intellectual property. The U.S. Government has begun asserting or seeking to obtain more extensive rights in intellectual property associated with its contracts. The U.S. Government's efforts could reduce our ability to control the use of certain of our intellectual property rights in a government contracting environment. Our intellectual property is also subject to challenge, invalidation, misappropriation, or circumvention by third parties.. We also rely upon proprietary technology, information, processes, and know-how that are not protected by patents. We seek to protect this information through trade secret or confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, subcontractors, and other parties, as well as through other measures. These agreements and other measures may not, however, provide meaningful protection for our unpatented proprietary information.. In the event of infringement of our intellectual property rights, breach of a confidentiality agreement, or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary information, we may not have adequate legal remedies to maintain our rights in our intellectual property. Litigation to determine the scope of our rights, even if successful, could be costly and a diversion of management's attention from other aspects of our business. In addition, trade secrets may otherwise. 22. become known or be independently developed by competitors. If we are unable adequately to protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected.. We have the right to use certain intellectual property licensed to us by third parties. In instances where third parties have licensed to us the right to use their intellectual property, we may be unable in the future to secure the necessary licenses to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms.. There can be no assurance we will continue to increase our dividends or to repurchase shares of our common stock at current levels.. The payment of cash dividends and repurchases of our common stock are subject to limitations under applicable law and the discretion of our board of directors, considered in the context of then current conditions, including our earnings, other operating results and capital requirements. Declines in asset values or increases in liabilities, including liabilities associated with benefit plans and assets and liabilities associated with taxes, can reduce stockholders' equity. A deficit in stockholders' equity could limit our ability under Delaware law to pay dividends and repurchase shares in the future. In addition, the timing and amount of share repurchases under board approved share repurchase programs is within the discretion of management and will depend upon many factors, including results of operations and capital requirements, as well as applicable law.. Our debt exposes us to certain risks.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $1,279 million of debt under our senior notes and $1,235 million of additional borrowing capacity under our Credit Agreement (the \"Credit Facility\"). Our Credit Facility also allows us to solicit lenders to provide incremental financing in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000 million, and the indentures governing our senior notes do not limit our incurrence of debt. The amount of our existing debt, combined with our ability to incur significant amounts of debt in the future, could have important consequences, including:. • Increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions;. • Requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic initiatives, and general corporate purposes;. • Increasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industries in which we operate;. • Exposing us to the risk of higher interest rates on borrowings under our Credit Facility, which are subject to variable rates of interest;. • Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. • Limiting our ability to borrow additional funds.. To the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we face could be increased.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law, as well as regulatory requirements, could delay or prevent a change in control.. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Restated Bylaws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Restated Bylaws currently require advance notice for stockholder proposals and director nominations, and authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. These provisions may discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. Delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock and us.. Our nuclear shipbuilding operations are considered vitally important to the U.S. Navy. Consequently, the U.S. Navy requires us to include in our contracts with the Navy provisions regarding notice and approval rights for the Navy in the event of a change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and regarding the Navy's obligations to indemnify us for losses relating to our nuclear operations for the Navy.  Such provisions require us to provide the U.S. Navy with notice of any potential change of control of our nuclear shipbuilding operations and obtain the Navy's consent for transferring certain related licenses in order to facilitate the Navy's ability to ensure that a potential buyer would continue to conduct our operations in a satisfactory manner. We have included such. 23. provisions in solicitations for future U.S. Navy nuclear work, and we expect them to be included in future contracts with the Navy for nuclear work.. Provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and our Restated Bylaws and our existing contracts with the U.S. Navy may have the effect of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a change of control of our company that may be beneficial to our stockholders."
