[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. Our industry is affected by global economic factors including risks associated with volatile economic conditions.. Our financial results are substantially dependent on overall economic conditions in the U.S., Europe and Asia. Declining economic conditions in all or any of these locations - or negative perceptions about economic conditions - could result in a substantial decrease in demand for our products and could adversely affect our business. The timing and extent of any changes to currently prevailing market conditions is uncertain, and supply and demand may be unbalanced at any time. Uncertain economic conditions and market instability make it particularly difficult for us to forecast demand trends. As a consequence, we may not be able to accurately predict future economic conditions or the effect of such conditions on our financial condition or results of operations. We can give no assurances as to the timing, extent or duration of the current or future economic cycles impacting the industries in which we operate.. The markets for many of our products are cyclical and volatile, and we may experience depressed market conditions for such products.. The cyclicality that the markets for many of our products experience occurs as a result of alternating periods of tight supply, causing prices and margins to increase, followed by periods of lower capacity utilization, resulting in oversupply and declining prices and margins. The volatility these markets experience occurs as a result of changes in the demand for products as a consequence of global economic activity, changes in energy prices and changes in customers' requirements. For example, demand for our products depends in part on the housing and construction industries, which are cyclical in nature and have historically been impacted by downturns in the economy. In addition, margins for MTBE sales are volatile and seasonal. The supply - demand balance is also impacted by capacity additions or reductions that result in changes in utilization rates. The cyclicality and volatility of our industry results in significant fluctuations in profits and cash flow from period to period and over the business cycle.. Disruptions in production at our manufacturing facilities may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.. Manufacturing facilities in our industry are subject to planned and unplanned production shutdowns, turnarounds, outages and other disruptions. Any serious disruption at any of our facilities could impair our ability to use our facilities and have a material adverse impact on our revenues and increase our costs and expenses. Alternative facilities with sufficient capacity may not be available, may cost substantially more or may take a significant time to increase production or qualify with our customers, any of which could negatively impact our business, results of. 26. Table of Contents. operations and/or financial condition. Long - term production disruptions may cause our customers to seek alternative supply which could further adversely affect our profitability.. Unplanned production disruptions may occur for external reasons including natural disasters, weather, disease, strikes, transportation interruption, government regulation, political unrest or terrorism, or internal reasons, such as fire, unplanned maintenance or other manufacturing problems. Any such production disruption could have a material impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition.. In addition, we rely on a number of vendors, suppliers, and in some cases sole - source suppliers, service providers, toll manufacturers and collaborations with other industry participants to provide us with chemicals, feedstocks and other raw materials, along with energy sources and, in certain cases, facilities that we need to operate our business. If the business of these third parties is disrupted, some of these companies could be forced to reduce their output, shut down their operations or file for bankruptcy protection. If this were to occur, it could adversely affect their ability to provide us with the raw materials, energy sources or facilities that we need, which could materially disrupt our operations, including the production of certain of our products. Moreover, it could be difficult to find replacements for certain of our business partners without incurring significant delays or cost increases. All of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. While we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that could disrupt our business, we cannot provide assurances that our plans would fully protect us from the effects of all such disasters or from events that might increase in frequency or intensity due to climate change. In addition, insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses incurred as a result of natural or other disasters. In areas prone to frequent natural or other disasters, insurance may become increasingly expensive or not available at all. Furthermore, some potential climate - driven losses, particularly inundation due to sea - level rise, may pose long - term risks to our physical facilities such that operations cannot be restored in their current locations.. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by international business risks, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, legal restrictions and taxes.. We conduct a majority of our business operations outside the U.S., and these operations are subject to risks normally associated with international operations. These risks include the need to convert currencies that may be received for our products into currencies in which we purchase raw materials or pay for services, which could result in a gain or loss depending on fluctuations in exchange rates. We transact business in many foreign currencies, including euros, Swiss francs, Chinese renminbi, Indian rupees, Brazilian reals and Thai bahts. We translate our local currency financial results into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during the reporting period or the exchange rate at the end of that period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and earnings may be reduced because the local currency may translate into fewer U.S. dollars. Because we currently have significant operations located outside the U.S., we are exposed to fluctuations in global currency rates which may result in gains or losses on our financial statements.. Other risks of international operations include trade barriers, tariffs, exchange controls, cash repatriation restrictions, national and regional labor strikes, social and political risks, general economic risks and required compliance with a variety of U.S. and foreign laws, including monetary policies, tax laws, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (and foreign equivalents), export controls and regulations administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Any changes in tariffs or trade barriers could make our products less competitive compared to other producers not subject to the same tariffs or trade barriers. Any decision to repatriate cash as dividends could subject us to foreign and U.S. federal and state income taxes without any offsetting foreign tax credit relief. Although we maintain an anti - corruption compliance program throughout our Company, violations of our compliance program may result in criminal or civil sanctions, including material monetary fines, penalties and other costs against us or our employees, and may have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, in foreign jurisdictions where legal processes may vary from country to country, we may experience difficulty in enforcing agreements. In jurisdictions where bankruptcy laws and practices vary, we may experience difficulty collecting foreign receivables through foreign legal systems. The occurrence of these risks, among others, could disrupt the businesses of our international subsidiaries, which could significantly affect their ability to make distributions to us.. We operate in a significant number of jurisdictions, which contributes to the volatility of our effective tax rate. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate may affect our effective tax rate. In addition, generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (\"GAAP\" or \"U.S. GAAP\") have required us to place valuation allowances against our net operating losses and other deferred tax assets in a significant number of tax jurisdictions. These valuation allowances result from analysis of positive and negative evidence supporting the. 27. Table of Contents. realization of tax benefits. Negative evidence includes a cumulative history of pre - tax operating losses in specific tax jurisdictions. Changes in valuation allowances have resulted in material fluctuations in our effective tax rate. Economic conditions may dictate the continued imposition of current valuation allowances and, potentially, the establishment of new valuation allowances. While significant valuation allowances remain, our effective tax rate will likely continue to experience significant fluctuations. Furthermore, certain foreign jurisdictions may take actions to delay our ability to collect value - added tax refunds.. Our efforts to grow and transform our businesses may require significant investments; if our strategies are unsuccessful, our business, results of operations and/or financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. We continuously evaluate opportunities for growth and change. These initiatives may involve making acquisitions, entering into partnerships and joint ventures, divesting assets, restructuring our existing operations and assets, creating new financial structures and building new facilities - any of which could require a significant investment and subject us to new kinds of risks. We have incurred indebtedness to finance these opportunities, and we may incur additional indebtedness to finance future initiatives. We could also issue additional shares of stock of our Company or our subsidiaries to finance such initiatives. If our strategies for growth and change are not successful, we could face increased financial pressure, such as increased cash flow demands, reduced liquidity and diminished access to financial markets, and the equity value of our businesses could be diluted.. The implementation of strategies for growth and change may create additional risks, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdiversion of management time and attention away from existing operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring capital investment that could otherwise be used for the operation and growth of our existing businesses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdisruptions to important business relationships;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreased operating costs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimitations imposed by various governmental entities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tuse of limited investment and other baskets under our debt covenants; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties due to lack of or limited prior experience in any new markets we may enter.. Our inability to mitigate these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our strategies for growth and change could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may fail to fully achieve the savings or growth projected for current or future initiatives notwithstanding the expenditure of substantial resources in pursuit thereof.. We may have difficulties integrating acquired businesses and as a result, our business, results of operations and/or financial condition may be materially adversely affected.. We have completed a number of acquisitions and we will continue to acquire additional businesses and enter into joint ventures as part of our business strategy. Growth through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinability to efficiently operate new businesses or to integrate acquired businesses and products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinability to accurately predict delays in realizing the costs and benefits of acquisitions, partnerships, or joint ventures;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunexpected losses of customers or suppliers of an acquired or existing business;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in retaining key employees of acquired businesses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in realizing projected synergies; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texposure to unanticipated liabilities, including unexpected environmental exposures, product liability or illegal activities conducted by an acquired company or a joint venture partner.. Our inability to address these risks could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or joint ventures and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 28. Table of Contents. Significant price volatility or interruptions in supply of our raw materials may result in increased costs that we may be unable to pass on to our customers, which could reduce our profitability.. We purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials from third - party suppliers and the cost of these raw materials represents a substantial portion of our operating expenses. The prices for a number of these raw materials generally follow price trends of, and vary with market conditions for, crude oil and natural gas feedstocks, which are highly volatile and cyclical. For example, the market for crude oil and natural gas feedstocks experienced depressed pricing throughout 2015 and 2016, leading to favorable prices for the raw materials that we purchase from third parties. Lower raw material prices, however, can lead to downward pressure on selling prices for certain of our products leading to reduced revenue. Our supply agreements typically provide for market - based pricing and provide us only limited protection against price volatility. While we attempt to match cost increases with corresponding product price increases, we are not always able to raise product prices immediately or at all. Timing differences between raw material prices, which may change daily, and contract product prices, which in many cases are negotiated only monthly or less often, have had and may continue to have a negative effect on our cash flow. Any cost increase that we are not able to pass on to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. In general, the feedstocks and other raw materials we consume are organic chemical commodity products that are readily available at market prices. There are, however, several raw materials for which there are only a limited number of suppliers or a single supplier. To mitigate potential supply constraints, we frequently enter into supply agreements with particular suppliers, evaluate alternative sources of supply and evaluate alternative technologies to avoid reliance on limited or sole - source suppliers. In addition, where supply relationships are concentrated, particular attention is paid by the parties to ensure strategic intentions are aligned to facilitate long - term planning. If certain of our suppliers are unable to meet their obligations under present supply agreements, we may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain the necessary raw materials from other sources and we may not be able to increase prices for our finished products to recoup the higher raw materials costs. Any interruption in the supply of raw materials could increase our costs or decrease our revenues, which could reduce our cash flow. The inability of a supplier to meet our raw material needs could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements and results of operations.. The number of sources for and availability of certain raw materials is also specific to the particular geographical region in which a facility is located. Political and economic instability in the countries from which we purchase our raw material supplies could adversely affect their availability. In addition, if raw materials become unavailable within a geographic area from which they are now sourced, then we may not be able to obtain suitable or cost effective substitutes. We may also experience higher operating costs such as energy costs, which could affect our profitability. We may not always be able to increase our selling prices to offset the impact of any higher production costs or reduced production levels, which could reduce our earnings and decrease our liquidity.. The industries in which we compete are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively with our competitors that have greater financial resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. Among our competitors are some of the world's largest chemical companies and major integrated petroleum companies that have their own raw material resources. Changes in the competitive landscape could make it difficult for us to retain our competitive position in various products and markets throughout the world. Some of the companies with whom we compete may be able to produce products more economically than we can. Furthermore, some of our competitors have greater financial resources, which may enable them to invest significant capital into their businesses, including expenditures for research and development.. While we are engaged in a range of research and development programs to develop new products and processes, to improve and refine existing products and processes, and to develop new applications for existing products, the failure to develop new products, processes or applications could make us less competitive. Moreover, if any of our current or future competitors develops proprietary technology that enables them to produce products at a significantly lower cost, our technology could be rendered uneconomical or obsolete.. Further, it is possible that we could abandon certain products, processes, or applications due to potential infringement of third party intellectual property rights or that we could be named in future litigation for the infringement or misappropriation of a competitor's or other third party's intellectual property rights, which could include a claim for injunctive relief and damages, and, if so, such adverse results could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. In addition, certain of our competitors in various countries in which we do business, including China, may be owned by or affiliated with members of local governments and political entities.. 29. Table of Contents. These competitors may get special treatment with respect to regulatory compliance and product registration, while certain of our products, including those based on new technologies, may be delayed or even prevented from entering into the local market.. Certain of our businesses use technology that is widely available. Accordingly, barriers to entry, apart from capital availability, may be low in certain product segments of our business. The entrance of new competitors into any of our businesses may reduce our ability to maintain margins or capture improving margins in circumstances where capacity utilization in the industry is increasing. Further, petroleum - rich countries have become more significant participants in the petrochemical industry and may expand their roles significantly in the future. Increased competition in any of our businesses could compel us to reduce the prices of our products, which could result in reduced margins and loss of market share and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We are subject to risks relating to our information technology systems, and any failure to adequately protect our critical information technology systems could materially affect our operations.. We rely on information technology systems across our operations, including for management, supply chain and financial information and various other processes and transactions. Our ability to effectively manage our business depends on the security, reliability and capacity of these systems. Information technology system failures, network disruptions or breaches of security could disrupt our operations, cause delays or cancellations of customer orders or impede the manufacture or shipment of products, processing of transactions or reporting of financial results. An attack or other problem with our systems could also result in the disclosure of proprietary information about our business or confidential information concerning our customers or employees, which could result in significant damage to our business and our reputation.. We have put in place security measures designed to protect against the misappropriation or corruption of our systems, intentional or unintentional disclosure of confidential information, or disruption of our operations. Current employees have, and former employees may have, access to a significant amount of information regarding our operations which could be disclosed to our competitors or otherwise used to harm us. Moreover, our operations in certain locations, such as China, may be particularly vulnerable to security attacks or other problems. Any breach of our security measures could result in unauthorized access to and misappropriation of our information, corruption of data or disruption of operations or transactions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. In addition, we could be required to expend significant additional amounts to respond to information technology issues or to protect against threatened or actual security breaches. We may not be able to implement measures that will protect against all of the significant risks to our information technology systems.. Agreements governing our debt may restrict our ability to engage in certain business activities or to obtain additional financing.. The agreements governing our debt arrangements contain certain restrictive covenants. These covenants may limit or prohibit our ability to among other things, incur additional indebtedness; make certain prepayments of debt; pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions; issue stock; make investments; create liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; merge or consolidate; and transfer or sell assets. Some of our strategies may necessitate receiving consents or waivers under our debt arrangements, which could be withheld.. Our failure to comply with any of our debt covenants, or our failure to make payments of principal or interest on our debt, could result in a default, or trigger cross - default or acceleration provisions, under our debt agreements. An event of default could result in our debt obligations becoming immediately due and payable, cause our creditors to terminate their lending commitments, or force us or one or more of our subsidiaries into bankruptcy or liquidation. Any of the foregoing occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For more information regarding our debt covenants, see \"Note 13. Debt - Compliance with Covenants\" to our consolidated financial statements.. Economic conditions and regulatory changes following the NAFTA negotiations and the United Kingdom's likely exit from the EU could adversely impact our operations, operating results and financial condition.. Following a referendum in June 2016 in which voters in the United Kingdom (the \"U.K.\") approved an exit from the EU (\"Brexit\"), and on March 29, 2017, notified the EU that it intended to exit as provided in Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union. The referendum triggered short-term financial volatility, including a decline in the value of the pound sterling in comparison to both the U.S. dollar and euro. The future effects of Brexit will depend on any. 30. Table of Contents. agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to the EU or other markets either during a transitional period or more permanently, the substance of which is not known. Given the lack of comparable precedent and the slow pace of negotiations between the U.K. and the EU, it remains unclear what financial, trade and legal implications the withdrawal of the U.K. from the EU would have and how such withdrawal would affect our Company, although any increase in duties and tariffs between the U.K. and the rest of the EU would be immediately damaging to the profitability and in some cases viability of exports of our products between those regions and, over the long term, might result in the need to relocate major manufacturing assets from one region to the other.. In 2017, the U.S. opened negotiations with Canada and Mexico to renegotiate the terms of the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\"), a treaty that has been in place since 1994. Some proposed clauses would include a \"sunset\" provision for NAFTA after a certain number of years. There is a risk that if the negotiations fail, NAFTA could be terminated. Any reversal of NAFTA could lead to significant declines in real GDP, trade, investment and employment in North America. It would also be immediately damaging to the profitability of annual Huntsman exports as between Canada, the U.S. and Mexico, which in the aggregate total hundreds of millions of dollars.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from sales in the regions that would be impacted by Brexit and a reversal of NAFTA. Approximately 25% of our revenues stem from sales in Europe and 41% from sales in North America. The consequences of Brexit and a reversal of NAFTA, depending upon what the terms and conditions of such events are, together with what may be protracted negotiations in both cases, could introduce significant uncertainties into global financial markets and adversely impact the markets in which we and our customers operate. Brexit or a reversal of NAFTA could also create uncertainty with respect to the legal and regulatory requirements to which we and our customers in these regions are subject and lead to divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. government determines which EU laws to replace or replicate or as members of NAFTA pursue other trade partners and adopt laws and regulations that are less harmonious with those of existing NAFTA members.. While we are not experiencing any immediate adverse impact on our financial condition as a result of Brexit or the NAFTA negotiations, adverse consequences such as deterioration in economic conditions, volatility in currency exchange rates or adverse changes in regulation could have a negative impact on our future operations, operating results and financial condition. All of these potential consequences could be further magnified if additional countries were to exit the EU.. Our operations involve risks that may increase our operating costs, which could reduce our profitability.. Although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk of disruptions, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the manufacturing and marketing of chemical and other products. These hazards include: chemical spills, pipeline leaks and ruptures, storage tank leaks, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases and other hazards incident to the manufacturing, processing, handling, transportation and storage of dangerous chemicals. We are also potentially subject to other hazards, including natural disasters and severe weather; explosions and fires; transportation problems, including interruptions, spills and leaks; mechanical failures; unscheduled downtimes; labor difficulties; remediation complications; and other risks. In addition, some equipment and operations at our facilities are owned or controlled by third parties who may not be fully integrated into our safety programs and over whom we are able to exercise limited control. Many potential hazards can cause bodily injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties and liabilities. Furthermore, we are subject to present and future claims with respect to workplace exposure, exposure of contractors on our premises as well as other persons located nearby, workers' compensation and other matters.. We maintain property, business interruption, products liability and casualty insurance policies which we believe are in accordance with customary industry practices, as well as insurance policies covering other types of risks, including pollution legal liability insurance, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. Each of these insurance policies is subject to customary exclusions, deductibles and coverage limits, in accordance with industry standards and practices. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. In addition, we are subject to various claims and litigation in the ordinary course of business. We are a party to various pending lawsuits and proceedings. For more information, see \" - Item 3. Legal Proceedings\" below.. 31. Table of Contents. We are subject to many EHS regulations that may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities, which could reduce our profitability.. We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment and human health and safety, and the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. Actual or alleged violations of EHS laws or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations and substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as, under some EHS laws, the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability.. Many of our products and operations are subject to the chemical control laws of the countries in which they are located. These laws include the regulation of chemical substances and inventories under the Toxic Substances Control Act (\"TSCA\") in the U.S. and the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (\"REACH\") and the Classification, Labeling and Packaging of substances and mixtures (\"CLP\") regulations in Europe. Analogous regimes exist in other parts of the world, including China, South Korea, and Taiwan. In addition, a number of countries where we operate, including the U.K., have adopted rules to conform chemical labeling in accordance with the globally harmonized system. Many of these foreign regulatory regimes are in the process of a multi - year implementation period for these rules.. Additional new laws and regulations may be enacted or adopted by various regulatory agencies globally. For example, in the U.S., the EPA finalized revisions to its Risk Management Program in January 2017. The revisions include new requirements for certain facilities to perform hazard analyses, third - party auditing, incident investigations and root cause analyses, emergency response exercises, and to publically share chemical and process information. Compliance for many of the rule's new requirements will be required beginning in 2021. The EPA has proposed to delay the rule's effect until February 2019; however, EPA's proposed delay has been challenged in the courts by environmental groups. The U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration had previously announced that it was considering changes to its Process Safety Management standards that parallel EPA's Risk Management Program; but additional action appears unlikely at this time. In addition, TSCA reform legislation was enacted in June 2016, and the EPA has begun the process of issuing new chemical control regulations. EPA issued several final rules in 2017 under the revised TSCA related to existing chemicals, including the following: (i) a rule to establish EPA's process and criteria for identifying chemicals for risk evaluation; (ii) a rule to establish EPA's process for evaluating high priority chemicals and their uses to determine whether or not they present an unreasonable risk to health or the environment; and (iii) a rule to require industry reporting of chemicals manufactured or processed in the U.S. over the past 10 years. The EPA has also released its draft framework for approving new chemicals and new uses of existing chemicals. Under the draft framework, which is already being used by EPA in TSCA evaluations, a new chemical or use presents an unreasonable risk if it exceeds set standards. Such a finding could result in either the issuance of rules restricting the use of the chemical being evaluated or in the need for additional testing. The costs of compliance with any new laws or regulations cannot be estimated until the manner in which they will be implemented has been more precisely defined.. Furthermore, governmental, regulatory and societal demands for increasing levels of product safety and environmental protection could result in increased pressure for more stringent regulatory control with respect to the chemical industry. In addition, these concerns could influence public perceptions regarding our products and operations, the viability of certain products, our reputation, the cost to comply with regulations, and the ability to attract and retain employees. Moreover, changes in EHS regulations could inhibit or interrupt our operations, or require us to modify our facilities or operations. Accordingly, environmental or regulatory matters may cause us to incur significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities, which could reduce our profitability. For example, several of our products are being evaluated under REACH and CLP regulations and actions thereunder could negatively impact sales.. We could incur significant expenditures in order to comply with existing or future EHS laws. Capital expenditures and costs relating to EHS matters will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose requirements on our operations. Capital expenditures and costs beyond those currently anticipated may therefore be required under existing or future EHS laws.. Furthermore, we may be liable for the costs of investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination on or from our properties or at off - site locations where we disposed of or arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials, or from disposal activities that pre - dated our purchase of our businesses. We may therefore incur additional costs and expenditures beyond those currently anticipated to address all such known and unknown situations under existing and future EHS laws.. 32. Table of Contents. Regulatory requirements to reduce GHG emissions could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our operations are increasingly subject to regulations that seek to reduce emissions of GHGs, such as carbon dioxide and methane, which may be contributing to changes in the Earth's climate. There are existing efforts to address GHG emissions at the international, national, and regional levels. For example, the 2015 Paris climate summit agreement, which entered into force in November 2016, resulted in voluntary commitments by numerous countries to reduce their GHG emissions. However, the U.S. notified the United Nations in August 2017 that it will be withdrawing from the agreement, which provides for a four year exit process. The EU also regulates GHGs under the EU ETS and China has established its own country-wide GHG cap and trade program. Domestically, the EPA issued its final Clean Power Plan rules in 2015 that establish carbon pollution standards for power plants, called CO2 emission performance rates. This rule has been challenged in court and the EPA has separately announced that it intends to repeal and potentially replace the Clean Power Plan. In any event, collectively, these rules and agreements may affect the long term price and supply of electricity and natural gas and demand for products that contribute to energy efficiency and renewable energy. These various regulations and agreements are likely to result in increased costs to purchased energy, additional capital costs for installation or modification of GHG emitting equipment, and additional costs associated directly with GHG emissions (such as cap and trade systems or carbon taxes), which are primarily related to energy use. Compliance with these regulations and any more stringent restrictions in the future may increase our operational costs.. In addition, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur in areas where we or our clients operate, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations.. We could incur significant expenditures in order to comply with existing or future EHS laws. Capital expenditures and costs relating to EHS matters will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose requirements on our operations. Capital expenditures and costs beyond those currently anticipated may therefore be required under existing or future EHS laws.. Furthermore, we may be liable for the costs of investigating and cleaning up environmental contamination on or from our properties or at off - site locations where we disposed of or arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous materials or from disposal activities that pre - dated our purchase of our businesses. We may therefore incur additional costs and expenditures beyond those currently anticipated to address all such known and unknown situations under existing and future EHS laws.. Our operations, financial condition and liquidity could be adversely affected by legal claims against us, including antitrust claims.. We face risks arising from various legal actions, including matters relating to antitrust, product liability, intellectual property and environmental claims. It is possible that judgments could be rendered against us in these cases or others for which we could be uninsured or not covered by indemnity, or which may be beyond the amounts that we currently have reserved or anticipate incurring for such matters. Over the past few years, antitrust claims have been made against chemical companies. In this type of litigation, the plaintiffs generally seek treble damages, which may be significant. An adverse outcome in any antitrust claim could be material and significantly impact our operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Financial difficulties and related problems experienced by our customers, vendors, suppliers and other business partners could have a material adverse effect on our business.. During periods of economic disruption, more of our customers than normal may experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcies, restructurings and liquidations, which could affect our business by reducing sales, increasing our risk in extending trade credit to customers and reducing our profitability. A significant adverse change in a customer relationship or in a customer's financial position could cause us to limit or discontinue business with that customer, require us to assume more credit risk relating to that customer's receivables or limit our ability to collect accounts receivable from that customer.. 33. Table of Contents. Our business is dependent on our intellectual property. If our intellectual property rights cannot be enforced or our trade secrets become known to our competitors, our ability to compete may be adversely affected.. Proprietary protection of our processes, apparatuses and other technology is important to our business. While a presumption of validity exists with respect to patents issued to us in the U.S., there can be no assurance that any of our patents will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Furthermore, if any pending patent application filed by us does not result in an issued patent, or if patents are issued to us, but such patents do not provide meaningful protection of our intellectual property, then our ability to compete may be adversely affected. Additionally, our competitors or other third parties may obtain patents that restrict or preclude our ability to lawfully produce or sell our products in a competitive manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary know - how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While it is our policy to enter into agreements imposing confidentiality obligations upon our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, these confidentiality obligations may be breached, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know - how, or adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized access, use or disclosure of our trade secrets and know - how. In addition, others could obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means.. We may have to rely on judicial enforcement of our patents and other proprietary rights. We may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights from misappropriation or infringement in countries where effective patent, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws and judicial systems may be unavailable, or may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as U.S. law.. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know - how or the failure of adequate legal remedies for related actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. Conflicts, military actions, terrorist attacks, political events and general instability, along with increased security regulations related to our industry, could adversely affect our business.. Conflicts, military actions, terrorist attacks and political events have precipitated economic instability and turmoil in international commerce and the global economy. The uncertainty and economic disruption resulting from hostilities, military action or acts of terrorism may impact any or all of our facilities and operations or those of our suppliers or customers. Accordingly, any conflict, military action or terrorist attack that impacts us or any of our suppliers or customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Furthermore, instability and turmoil, particularly in energy - producing nations, may result in raw material cost increases.. Changes in social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories and countries where we currently develop and sell products, could adversely affect our business. For example, a number of governments have instituted regulations attempting to increase the security of chemical plants and the transportation of hazardous chemicals, which could result in higher operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity.. If our subsidiaries do not make sufficient distributions to us, then we will not be able to make payment on our debts.. Our debt is generally the exclusive obligation of Huntsman International and our guarantor subsidiaries. Because a significant portion of our operations are conducted by nonguarantor subsidiaries, our cash flow and our ability to service indebtedness, including our ability to pay the interest on our debt when due and principal of such debt at maturity, are dependent to a large extent upon cash dividends and distributions or other transfers from such nonguarantor subsidiaries. Any payment of dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our nonguarantor subsidiaries to us could be subject to restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, and any restrictions imposed by the current and future debt instruments of our nonguarantor subsidiaries. In addition, payments to us by our subsidiaries are contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings.. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and, except for our guarantor subsidiaries, have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due on our debt or to make any funds available for those amounts, whether by dividends, loans, distributions or other payments, and do not guarantee the payment of interest on, or principal of, our. 34. Table of Contents. debt. Any right that we have to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries that are not guarantors upon the liquidation or reorganization of any such subsidiary, and the consequent right of holders of notes to realize proceeds from the sale of their assets, will be structurally subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors and holders of debt issued by that subsidiary.. Regulatory or market changes with respect to MTBE may materially reduce our sales and/or materially increase our costs.. We produce MTBE, an oxygenate that is blended with gasoline to reduce vehicle air emissions and to enhance the octane rating of gasoline. Because of the allegations that MTBE has contaminated some water supplies, its use has become controversial in the U.S. and elsewhere, and its use has been effectively eliminated in the U.S. market. We currently market MTBE, either directly or through third parties, to gasoline additive customers located outside the U.S. This business has been profitable to us over time, and legislative or regulatory initiatives or changing consumer opinion outside the U.S. restricting MTBE or changing consumer opinion could materially adversely affect our ability to market and sell MTBE and our profitability. In 2017, China announced that it would implement a mandate to use gasoline containing 10% ethanol by 2020. If implemented, ethanol could substitute MTBE and other blendstocks in the Chinese market. Expansion of our PO/MTBE operations, including our joint venture with Sinopec in China, further exposes us to these risks.. While we could use all or a portion of our precursor TBA to produce saleable products other than MTBE, this would require significant capital expenditures to modify our facilities. Moreover, the sale of other products would produce a lower level of cash flow than that historically produced from the sale of MTBE.. Our pension and postretirement benefit plan obligations are currently underfunded, and under certain circumstances we may have to significantly increase the level of cash funding to some or all of these plans, which would reduce the cash available for our business.. We have unfunded and underfunded obligations under some of our domestic and foreign pension and postretirement benefit plans. The funded status of our pension plans is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets, the level of certain market interest rates and the discount rates used to determine pension obligations. Unfavorable returns on the plan assets or unfavorable changes in applicable laws or regulations could materially change the timing and amount of required plan funding, which would reduce the cash available for our business. In addition, a decrease in the discount rate used to determine pension obligations could result in an increase in the valuation of pension obligations, which could affect the reported funding status of our pension plans and future contributions, as well as the periodic pension cost in subsequent fiscal years.. With respect to our domestic pension and postretirement benefit plans, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (\"PBGC\") has the authority to terminate an underfunded tax - qualified pension plan under limited circumstances in accordance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. In the event our tax - qualified pension plans are terminated by the PBGC, we could be liable to the PBGC for the entire amount of the underfunding and, under certain circumstances, the liability could be senior to our notes. With respect to our foreign pension and postretirement benefit plans, the effects of underfunding depend on the country in which the pension and postretirement benefit plan is established. For example, in the U.K. and Germany semi - public pension protection programs have the authority in certain circumstances to assume responsibility for underfunded pension schemes, including the right to recover the amount of the underfunding from us.. Our debt level, a portion of which is subject to variable interest rates, makes us vulnerable to downturns and may limit our ability to respond to market conditions, to obtain additional financing or to refinance our debt.. As of December 31, 2017, our total consolidated outstanding debt was $2,298 million (including current portion of debt); our debt to total capitalization ratio was approximately 41%; our combined outstanding variable rate borrowings were approximately $236 million; and our current portion of debt totaled $40 million. Our debt level and the fact that a portion of our cash flow is required to make payments on our debt could have important consequences for our business, including but not limited to the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe may be more vulnerable to business, industry or economic downturns, making it more difficult to respond to market conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcash flow available for other purposes, including the growth of our business, may be reduced;. 35. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to refinance or obtain additional financing may be constrained, particularly during periods when the capital markets are unsettled;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour competitors with lower debt levels may have a competitive advantage relative to us; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpart of our debt is subject to variable interest rates, which makes us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates (for example, a 1% increase in interest rates, without giving effect to interest rate hedges or other offsetting items, would increase our annual interest rate expense by approximately $2 million).. Our debt level also impacts our credit ratings. Any decision by credit rating agencies to downgrade our debt ratings could restrict our ability to obtain additional financing and could result in increased interest and other costs.. U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the U.S. Tax Reform Act that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. As a result, we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $137 million due to a remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities and a provisional tax expense of $85 million due to the transition tax on deemed repatriation of deferred foreign income. We currently do not expect tax reform to have a material detrimental impact to our future income tax expense or income tax cash payments. However, interpretations and implementation of the provisions of the U.S. Tax Reform Act will be forthcoming from both the federal and state tax authorities.  These interpretations and implementations could have material unanticipated impacts on our income tax expense and cash payments and will be recorded in our provision for income taxes in future periods as we have currently recorded only provisional amounts. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business.. 36. Table of Contents. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK AND DEBT SECURITIES. Certain provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a takeover attempt, which may reduce or eliminate the likelihood of a change of control transaction and, therefore, limit your ability to sell our common stock at a price higher than the current market value.. Certain provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, such as limitations on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders, the inability of stockholders to call special meetings and certain provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our Company, even if some of our stockholders were to consider such a change of control to be beneficial. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. Therefore, our Board of Directors could elect to issue preferred stock that has special voting or other rights that could make it even more difficult for a third party to acquire us, which may reduce or eliminate your ability to sell our common stock at a price higher than the current market value.. We have purchased, and may continue to purchase, a portion of our equity and debt securities, which could impact the market for our equity and debt securities and likely would negatively affect our liquidity.. Consistent with past practices, we may from time to time seek to repurchase or redeem our equity and debt securities in open market purchases, accelerated repurchase programs, privately negotiated transactions, tender offers, partial or full calls for redemption or otherwise. Any such repurchases or redemptions and the timing and amount thereof would depend on prevailing market conditions, liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. Such transactions could negatively affect our liquidity."                                                                                                                                                                                                      
