[1] "ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company's business. The Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Please note that additional risks not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also impair its business and operations.. Although the homebuilding industry is strengthening, any downturn of current construction levels could materially affect our business, liquidity and operating results.. Our sales and results of operations depend heavily on the strength of national and local new residential construction and home improvement, repair and remodeling markets. The strength of these markets depends on new housing starts and residential remodeling projects, which are a function of many factors beyond our control. Some of these factors include general economic conditions, employment levels, job and household formation, interest rates, housing prices, housing inventory, tax policy, availability of mortgage financing, prices of commodity wood and steel products, immigration patterns, regional demographics and consumer confidence.. New housing activity in the United States has shown modest improvement each year since 2009. However, 2017 activity of 1.2 million was still below the Historical Average of approximately 1.4 million starts. We expect the level of new housing activity in 2018 to continue to be below the Historical Average. A prolonged downturn in current construction levels or any significant downturn in the major markets we serve or in the economy in general could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity and financial condition, including but not limited to our ability to comply with the financial covenant under our credit facility and the valuation of our goodwill. Reduced levels of construction activity may result in continued intense price competition among building materials suppliers, which may adversely affect our gross margins. We cannot provide assurance that our responses to a downturn or the government's attempts to address the troubles in the economy will be successful.. The industry in which we compete is highly cyclical, and any cyclical market factors resulting in lower demand or increased supply could have a materially adverse impact on our financial results.. The building products distribution industry is subject to cyclical market pressures caused by a number of factors that are beyond our control, such as general economic and political conditions, inventory levels of new and existing homes for sale, levels of new construction, home improvement and remodeling activity, interest rates and population growth. To the extent that cyclical market factors adversely impact overall demand for building products or the prices that we can charge for our products, our net sales and margins would likely decline in the same time frame as the cyclical downturn occurs. Because much of our overhead and expense is relatively fixed in nature, a decrease in sales and margin generally has a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. To the extent our customers experience downturns in their business, our ability to collect our receivables could be adversely affected. Finally, the unpredictable nature of the cyclical market factors that impact our industry make it difficult to forecast our operating results.. -10-. We cannot assure the successful implementation of our growth initiatives.. In connection with our growth initiatives, including the Strategic Initiatives See Part I, Item 1 -  \"Strategic Initiatives\", we have developed a long-term growth strategy with the objective of delivering sustainable, profitable growth and long-term value for our shareholders.. Our ability to successfully execute on our growth initiatives is subject to various risks and uncertainties.  Although we believe that our growth strategy will lead to long-term growth in revenue and profitability, there can be no assurance regarding the timing of or extent to which we will realize the anticipated benefits, if at all. Our failure to realize the anticipated benefits, which may be due to our inability to execute on portions of our growth strategy or as a result of the impact of the other risks described herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. In execution of our growth initiatives, we may experience higher-than-expected expenses without accompanying current revenues and, therefore, this strategy may be dilutive to our earnings in the short term or longer. There can be no assurance regarding the timing of or the extent to which we will realize the anticipated benefits of these investments in our Company and other costs, if at all.. Our growth initiatives will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. Failure to manage growth effectively, or obtain necessary working capital to support our growth initiatives, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Current or future litigation and regulatory actions could have a material adverse impact on us.. From time to time, we are subject to litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings relating to our business.  No assurance can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us.  An adverse resolution of lawsuits, investigations or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Defending ourselves in these matters may be time - consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations and may result in significant expense and a diversion of management's time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives and growth strategy.  For example, the Company's involvement in litigation in Colorado, Illinois, and Texas filed by PrimeSource Building Products, Inc. against the Company and eleven of its employees has caused the Company to incur expenses and required significant attention from management. See \"Legal Matters\" in Note 7 - \"Commitments and Contingencies\" in the notes to our consolidated financial statements under Part II, Item 8 for additional information.. Additionally, any amount that we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment or settlement may not be covered by insurance.  Under our charter and the indemnification agreements that we have entered into with our directors and officers and third parties, we are required to indemnify and advance expenses to them in connection with their participation in certain proceedings.  There can be no assurance that any of these payments will not be material.. We face risks of incurring significant costs to comply with environmental regulations.. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental protection laws and regulations and may have to incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations in the future. Some of our current and former distribution centers are located in areas where environmental contamination may have occurred, and for which we, among others, could be held responsible. As a result, we may incur material environmental liabilities in the future with respect to our current or former distribution center locations. In addition, we may also be held responsible for environmental liabilities associated with products that we distribute or have distributed in the past. For example, we are required to remediate a property formerly owned by us in Montana pursuant to a unilateral administrative order issued by the Montana Department of Environmental Quality (\"DEQ\"). Although we believe we have accurately estimated the cost of implementing the remediation work at the site based on the information we have currently, we cannot provide assurance of the total cost of implementing the final remediation work at the site due to the currently unknown variables relating to the actual levels of contaminants and additional sampling and testing to ensure the. -11-. remediation will achieve the projected outcome required by the DEQ.  Our total cost of implementing the final remediation work at the site may exceed the amounts we have accrued for the matter.. A number of our employees are unionized, and any work stoppages by our unionized employees may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Approximately 12% of our employees were represented by labor unions as of December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2017, we had eight collective bargaining agreements. We may become subject to significant wage increases or additional work rules imposed by future agreements with labor unions representing our employees. Any such cost increases or new work rule implementation could increase our operating expenses to a material extent. In addition, although we have not experienced any strikes or other significant work interruptions in recent years and have maintained generally favorable relations with our employees, no assurance can be given that there will not be any work stoppages or other labor disturbances in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. If we are unable to meet the financial covenant under our credit facility, the lenders could elect to accelerate the repayment of the outstanding balance and, in that event, we would be forced to seek alternative sources of financing.. We fund our working capital by borrowing funds under a $250.0 million asset based senior secured revolving credit facility, which contains a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio (\"FCCR\") that is tested if our excess borrowing availability, as defined in the facility, reaches an amount in the range of less than $17.5 million to $31.3 million depending on our borrowing base at the time of testing. For 2017, the minimum FCCR was not required to be tested as excess borrowing availability was greater than the minimum threshold but, if we had been unable to maintain excess borrowing availability of more than the applicable amount in the range of $17.5 million to $31.3 million as required, the Company would not have met the minimum required FCCR at December 31, 2017. If in the future, we fail to meet the required FCCR and are unable to maintain excess borrowing availability of more than the applicable required amount, our lenders would have the right to terminate the loan commitments and accelerate the repayment of the entire amount outstanding under the credit facility. Our lenders also could foreclose on our assets that secure our credit facility. In that event, we would be forced to seek alternative sources of financing, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all.. Compliance with the restrictions and the financial covenant under our credit agreement may limit the amount available to us for borrowing under that facility and may limit management's discretion with respect to certain business matters.. The borrowings under our credit agreement are collateralized by substantially all of our assets, including accounts receivable, inventory and property and equipment. We are also subject to certain operating limitations commonly applicable to a loan of this type, which, among other things, place limitations on indebtedness, liens, investments, mergers and acquisitions, dispositions of assets, cash dividends, stock repurchases and transactions with affiliates. A minimum FCCR must be tested on a pro forma basis prior to consummation of certain significant business transactions outside the Company's ordinary course of business. These restrictions may limit management's ability to operate our business in accordance with management's discretion, which could limit our ability to pursue certain strategic objectives.. In addition, the growth in our business may cause us to seek additional financing or increase the size of the credit facility.  If we are unable to obtain additional financing, our ability to grow may be limited which could negatively impact our overall operations.. A significant portion of our sales are concentrated with a relatively small number of customers. A loss of one or more of these customers would have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. In 2017, our top ten customers represented 42% of our sales, with one customer accounting for 14% of our sales. This customer is a buying group for multiple building material dealers. Although we believe that our. -12-. relationships with our customers are strong, the loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. A significant portion of our sales are on credit to our customers. Material changes in their creditworthiness or our inability to forecast deterioration in their credit position could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flow and liquidity.. The majority of our sales are on account where we provide credit to our customers. In 2017, bad debt expense to total net sales was less than 0.1%. Our customers are generally susceptible to the same economic business risks as we are. Furthermore, we may not necessarily be aware of any deterioration in their financial position. If our customers' financial positions become impaired, it could have a significant adverse impact on our bad debt exposure and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flow and liquidity.. Fluctuation in prices of commodity wood and steel products that we buy and then resell may have a significant impact on our results of operations.. Changes in wood and steel commodity prices between the time we buy these products and the time we resell them have occurred in the past, and we expect fluctuations to occur again in the future. Such changes can adversely affect the gross margins that we realize on the resale of the products. We may be unable to manage these fluctuations effectively or minimize any negative impact of these changes on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks associated with our private brands could adversely affect our business.. We offer our customers quality products at competitive prices, some of which are marketed under our private brands. We expect to continue to grow our private brand offerings under the Huttig-Grip name. Our private brand offerings subject us to certain additional risks. These include, among others, risks related to: our, or our suppliers', failure to ensure the quality of such products; our failure to comply with government and industry safety standards; mandatory or voluntary product recalls related to our private brand offerings; product liability claims; our ability to successfully protect our proprietary rights in our exclusive offerings; and risks associated with international sourcing and manufacturing. In addition, damage to the reputation of our private brand trade names may generate negative customer sentiment. Our failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We expect to continue to make significant investments in our Huttig-Grip product line. We cannot provide assurance that our investments will be profitable.. The termination of key supplier relationships may have an immediate material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We distribute building products that we purchase from a number of major suppliers. As is customary in our industry, most of our relationships with these suppliers are terminable without cause on short notice. More than half of our purchases are concentrated with ten suppliers.  Although we believe that relationships with our existing suppliers are strong and that in most cases we would have access to similar products from competing suppliers, the termination of key supplier relationships or any other disruption in our sources of supply, particularly of our most commonly sold items, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Supply shortages resulting from unanticipated demand or production difficulties could occur from time to time and could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We use international sources for the production of certain of our products, which exposes us to certain additional risks.. We use international vendors for the supply of certain of our products.  Global sourcing and foreign trade involve numerous factors, uncertainties, and risks, some of which are beyond our control, including increased shipping costs, increased import duties, more restrictive quotas, loss of most favored nation trading status, currency. -13-. fluctuation, work stoppages, transportation delays, port of entry issues, economic uncertainties such as inflation, foreign government regulations, political unrest, natural disasters, war, terrorism, trade restrictions, political instability, the financial stability of vendors, merchandise quality issues, and tariffs and other import taxes. Additionally, operating in the international marketplace requires us to comply with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to our foreign operations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and its counterparts in other foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. Negative press or reports about internationally manufactured products, which have become increasingly prominent, may sway public opinion, and thus customer confidence, away from the products sold by us. These and other issues affecting our international operations and vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The building materials distribution industry is competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully with some of our existing competitors or new entrants in the markets we serve.. The building materials distribution industry is competitive. Our competition varies by product line, customer classification and geographic market. The principal competitive factors in our industry are:. •  pricing and availability of product;. •  service and delivery capabilities;. •  quality of value-added services;. •  ability to assist with problem-solving;. •  customer relationships;. •  geographic coverage;. •  financial stability and credit terms; and. •  breadth of product offerings.. We compete with many local, regional and, in some markets and product categories, national building materials distributors and dealers. In addition, some product manufacturers sell and distribute their products directly to our customers, and the volume of such direct sales could increase in the future. Manufacturers of products distributed by us may also enter into exclusive supplier arrangements with our competition. Further, home center retailers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and small contractors, may intensify their marketing efforts to larger contractors and homebuilders. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources and may be able to withstand sales or price decreases better than we can. We also expect to continue to face competition from new market entrants. We may be unable to continue to compete effectively with these existing or new competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have retained accident and claims risk under our insurance programs. Significant claims, and/or our ability to accurately estimate the liability for these claims could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. We retain a portion of the accident and claims risk under vehicle liability, workers' compensation, medical and other insurance programs. We have multiple claims of various sizes and forecast the number of claims in determining the portion of accident risk we are willing to self-insure. We base loss accruals on our best estimate of the cost of resolution of these matters and adjust them periodically as circumstances change. Due to limitations inherent in the estimation process, our estimates may change. Changes in the actual number of large claims or changes in the estimates of these accruals may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in any such period.. In addition, our insurance underwriters require collateral, generally in the form of letters of credit, which reduce our borrowing availability under our senior secured credit facility. As of December 31, 2017, we had $3.6 million in letters of credit outstanding. Changes in the actual number of large claims could increase our collateral requirements and reduce our borrowing availability under our credit facility.. -14-. Federal and state transportation regulations, as well as increases in the cost of fuel, could impose substantial costs on us, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. We use our own fleet of approximately 165 tractors, 15 trucks and 300 trailers to service customers throughout the United States. The U.S. Department of Transportation (\"DOT\") regulates our operations, and we are subject to safety requirements prescribed by the DOT. Vehicle dimensions and driver hours of service also are subject to both federal and state regulation. More restrictive limitations on vehicle weight and size, trailer length and configuration, or driver hours of service could increase our costs. These regulations may be subject to significant modification in connection with the new administration of the U.S. federal government.. In addition, we rely on diesel fuel to operate our fleet and, therefore, we are impacted by changes in diesel fuel prices. Fuel costs are largely unpredictable and can have a significant impact on the Company's results of operations.. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Act\") was enacted on December 22, 2017, and significantly affected U.S. tax law by changing how the U.S. imposes income tax on multinational corporations. The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations in the period issued.. The Tax Act requires complex computations not previously provided in U.S. tax law. As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. Further, compliance with the Tax Act and the accounting for such provisions require accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced.  As additional regulatory guidance is issued by the applicable taxing authorities, as accounting treatment is clarified, as we perform additional analysis on the application of the law, and as we refine estimates in calculating the effect, our final analysis, which will be recorded in the period completed, may be different from our current amounts, which could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. Our failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our future success.. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management and sales personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. The loss of the services of one or more key employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the tight labor market and low unemployment levels may impact our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel at our distribution centers.. Our unionized employees generally participate in certain multi-employer pension plans and funding requirements for these plans, particularly underfunded plans, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We participate in various multi-employer pension plans.  Some of these multi-employer plans may be underfunded at any point in time.  While the underfunded status may be cured in the normal course of plan management, a significant obligation may be created which could have a material adverse effect on our operations or could materially add to the cost of closing or consolidating operating locations.. We face the risks that product liability claims and other legal proceedings relating to the products we distribute may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. As is the case with other companies in our industry, we face the risk of product liability and other claims of the type that are typical to our industry in the event that the use of products that we have distributed causes other damages. Product liability claims in the future, regardless of their ultimate outcome and whether or not covered under our insurance policies or indemnified by our suppliers, could result in costly litigation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. -15-. We may acquire other businesses, and, if we do, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, which may impair our financial performance.. If we find appropriate opportunities, we may acquire businesses that we believe provide strategic opportunities. If we acquire a business, the process of integration may produce unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may demand significant attention of our management that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development and operation of our business. If we make future acquisitions, we may issue shares of stock that dilute the ownership interests of other stockholders, expend cash, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or create additional expenses. Furthermore, the acquired business may not perform as expected, which would impact our financial performance.. Exposure to successor liability and other liabilities may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may be exposed to successor liability and other liabilities relating to the historical operations of our predecessors (including Crane Co.) or actions by an acquired business before the acquisition, including, but not limited to, anti-corruption, import-export, product-related and other health-based claims, environmental and other matters, which could also result in significant liabilities and/or civil or criminal penalties. We also may assume liabilities in connection with the acquisition of businesses, including liabilities that we fail, or are unable, to identify in the course of performing due diligence investigations of the acquired businesses, or that may be more material than we previously determined. In these circumstances, we may be subject to indemnification obligations or our rights to indemnification from our predecessors or the sellers of the acquired businesses to us may not be sufficient in amount, scope or duration or be sufficiently collectible to offset fully the possible liabilities. Further, these liabilities could result in unexpected legal or regulatory exposure, unexpected increase in taxes or other adverse effects on our business. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Goodwill is a significant portion of our total assets and is tested for impairment at least annually, which could result in a material non-cash write-down of goodwill.. Goodwill is subject to impairment tests at least annually and between annual tests in certain circumstances. We have incurred non-cash impairment charges in certain prior years. At December 31, 2017, we reported goodwill of $9.5 million. We may be required to incur additional non-cash impairment charges in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Our financial results reflect the seasonal nature of our operations.. Our first and fourth quarter revenues are typically adversely affected by winter construction cycles and weather patterns in colder climates as the level of activity in the new construction and home improvement markets decreases. Because much of our overhead and expense remains relatively fixed throughout the year, our operating profits also tend to be lower during the first and fourth quarters. In addition, other weather patterns, such as hurricane season in the Southeast region of the United States during the third and fourth quarters, can have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions, cybersecurity attacks and breaches in data security, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and business.. We depend on information technology, including our information technology system and third party telecommunications facilities, as an essential element to sustain our operations. Our system enables us to interface with our local distribution centers and customers, as well as to maintain and timely update financial and business records. A failure of the information technology systems used by us or third parties with whom we interact could disrupt our operations by causing transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, delays or cancellation of customer orders, the loss of customers or impediments to the shipment of products. In particular, a cybersecurity breach could result in the loss or unauthorized disclosure of our intellectual property, proprietary information and personal information of our customers and employees. An information technology failure could expose us to financial losses. -16-. from the need to undertake remedial actions and loss of business or potential liability, as well as reputational damage, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business.. Our deferred tax assets could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code.. We have significant deferred tax assets related to federal and state net operating loss carryforwards (collectively, the \"Deferred Tax Assets\"). Under federal tax laws, we can carry forward and use our Deferred Tax Assets to reduce our future taxable income and tax liabilities until such Deferred Tax Assets expire in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). Section 382 and Section 383 of the Code provide an annual limitation on our ability to utilize our Deferred Tax Assets, as well as certain built-in-losses, against future taxable income in the event of a change in ownership (as defined under the Code). While we have adopted a rights plan to protect stockholder value by attempting to diminish the risk that the Company's ability to use its Deferred Tax Assets (see \"Shareholder Rights Plan\" under Part II, Item 7 - \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" for additional information) may become substantially limited, we could experience a change in ownership in the future as a result of changes in our stock ownership that are beyond our control, and any such subsequent changes in ownership for purposes of the Code could further limit our ability to use our Deferred Tax Assets. Accordingly, any such occurrences could adversely impact our ability to offset future tax liabilities and, therefore, adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow."
