[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The following discussion of \"risk factors\" sets forth some of the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance, reputation and/or value of our stock. This information should be read in conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis and the consolidated financial statements and related notes incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors, whether known or unknown, affecting our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance, reputation and/or value of our stock, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY. The failure of Congress to approve appropriations bills in a timely manner for the federal government agencies and departments we support, or the failure of the President and Congress to reach an agreement on fiscal issues, could delay and reduce spending, cause us to lose revenue and profit, and affect our cash flow.. On an annual basis, Congress is required to approve appropriations bills that govern spending by each of the federal government agencies and departments we support. When Congress is unable to agree on budget priorities,. 15. and thus is unable to pass annual appropriations bills on a timely basis, it typically enacts a continuing resolution. Continuing resolutions generally allow federal government agencies and departments to operate at spending levels based on the previous fiscal year. When agencies and departments operate on the basis of a continuing resolution, funding we expect to receive from clients for work we are already performing and for new initiatives may be delayed or cancelled. Thus, the failure by Congress to approve appropriations bills in a timely manner can result in the loss of revenue and profit when federal government agencies and departments are required to cancel or change existing or new initiatives or the deferral of revenue and profit to later periods due to delays in implementing existing or new initiatives. There is also the possibility that Congress will not enact appropriations bills or a continuing resolution in a timely manner. Furthermore, the federal government may not be able to fund its operations due to a failure by Congress to raise the U.S. debt ceiling. In such events, many parts of the federal government, including agencies, departments, programs, and projects we support, may \"shut down,\" which could have a substantial negative affect on our revenue, profit, and cash flows. The budgets of many of our state and local government clients are also subject to similar processes, and, as a result, subject us to similar risks and uncertainties.. In addition, in an effort to control the federal government deficit, Congress passed the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the \"Budget Act\"), which mandated the reduction of discretionary spending by the federal government by $1.2 trillion over 10 years. While some of these reductions have been rescinded, the spending caps through 2021 remain in place and, unless they are also rescinded, could continue to constrain federal discretionary spending for the services we provide. Because we derive a significant portion of our revenue from contracts with federal government clients, a decline in federal government expenditures and/or a shift of expenditures away from programs we support, whether as a result of the Budget Act or otherwise, would likely have a negative impact on our business and results. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 set higher spending caps for Fiscal Years 2018 and 2019 than would otherwise have been allowed by the Budget Control Act, more commonly known as the \"sequester\".  The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 also lifts the debt ceiling restriction on federal borrowing through March 1, 2019.  These changes positively affect the likelihood that Congress will pass an Omnibus Appropriations Act to provide government funding through the remainder of fiscal year 2018 as well as enact the necessary appropriations bills in a timely manner for fiscal year 2019, which begins on October 1, 2018.. Government budgeting and spending priorities may change in a manner adverse to our business.. We derived approximately 45%, 48%, and 48% of our revenue in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively, from contracts with federal government clients, and approximately 17%, 17%, and 17% of our revenue from contracts with state and local governments and international governments in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. The current presidential administration has announced and implemented some measures designed to reduce federal government regulation, which could have an impact on future revenue. Expenditures by our federal government clients may be restricted or reduced by these presidential or congressional actions, by action of the Office of Management and Budget, by action of individual agencies or departments, or by other actions. In addition, many state and local governments are not permitted to operate with budget deficits and nearly all state and local governments face considerable challenges in balancing their budgets. Accordingly, we expect, due to changing government budgeting and spending priorities, that some of our government clients in the future may delay payments due to us, may eventually fail to pay what they owe us, and/or may delay certain programs and projects. For some government clients, we may face a difficult choice: turn down (or stop) work due to budget uncertainty with the risk of damaging a valuable client relationship, or perform work with the risk of not getting paid in a timely fashion or perhaps at all. Federal and/or state and local government elections could also affect spending priorities and budgets at all levels of government. In addition, increased deficits and debt at all levels of government, both domestic and international, may lead to reduced spending by agencies and departments on projects or programs we support.. Our failure to comply with complex laws, rules, and regulations could cause us to lose business and subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions.. We must comply with laws, rules, and regulations that affect how we do business with our government clients and impose added costs on our business. Each government client has its own laws, rules, and regulations that affect its contracts. Some of the more significant laws and regulations affecting the formation, administration, and performance of government contracts include:. •  U.S. Federal Acquisition Regulation as well as Cost Accounting Standards, and agency and department regulations analogous or supplemental to federal regulation;. 16. •  U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;. •  U.S. Truthful Cost or Pricing Data Statue (formerly known as the Truth in Negotiations Act);. •  U.K. Bribery Act;. •  E.U General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\");. •  U.S. Procurement Integrity Act;. •  U.S. Civil False Claims Act and the False Statements Act; and. •  U.S. laws, rules and regulations restricting (i) the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes, (ii) the exportation of specified products, technologies, and technical data, and (iii) the use and dissemination of sensitive but unclassified data.. Any failure to comply with applicable federal, and/or state and local government laws, rules and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, repayment of amounts already received under contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal and/or state and local government agencies and departments, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, our revenue, our operating results, and/or the value of our stock.. In addition, the federal government and other governments with which we do business may change their procurement practices or adopt new contracting laws, rules, or regulations that could be costly to satisfy or that could impair our ability to obtain new contracts and reduce our revenue and profit, for example, by curtailing the use of services firms or increasing the use of firms with a \"preferred status,\" such as small businesses.. In addition to our U.S. operations, we also have a significant presence in key markets outside the U.S., including offices in the U.K., Belgium, China, India and Canada. Failure to abide by laws, rules and regulations applicable to our work outside the U.S. could have similar effects to those described above.. We are subject to various routine and non-routine governmental and other reviews, audits and investigations, and unfavorable audit results could force us to adjust previously reported operating results, could affect future operating results, and could subject us to a variety of penalties and sanctions.. Federal government departments and agencies and many state government clients audit and review our contract performance, pricing practices, cost structure, financial capability, and compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations. Audits could raise issues that have significant adverse effects, including, but not limited to, substantial adjustments to our previously reported operating results and substantial effects on future operating results. If a government audit, review, or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, repayment of amounts already received under contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with federal and state and local government agencies and departments, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, our revenue, our operating results, and/or the value of our stock. We may also lose business if we are found not to be sufficiently able to meet ongoing cash flows and financial obligations on a timely basis.  In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation and our stock price could decline if allegations of impropriety are made against us, whether true or not. Federal government audits have been completed on our incurred contract costs only through 2007 and audits for costs incurred on work performed since then have not yet been completed. In addition, non-audit reviews by federal and state and local governments may still be conducted on all our government contracts, even for periods before 2007.. Our contracts may contain provisions that are unfavorable to us and permit our clients to, among other things, terminate our contracts partially or completely at any time prior to completion.. Our contracts may contain provisions that allow our clients to terminate or modify these contracts at their convenience upon short notice. If a client terminates one of our contracts for convenience, we may only bill the client for work completed prior to the termination, plus any commitments and settlement expenses the client agrees to pay, but not for any work not yet performed. In addition, many of our government contracts and task and delivery orders are incrementally funded as appropriated funds become available. The reduction or elimination of such funding can result in contract options not being exercised and further work on existing contracts and orders being. 17. curtailed. In any such event, we would have no right to seek lost fees or other damages. In addition, certain contracts with international government clients may have more severe and/or different contract clauses than what we are accustomed to with federal and state and local government clients, such as penalties for any delay in performance. If a client were to terminate, decline to exercise options under, or curtail further performance under one or more of our major contracts, our revenue and operating results could be adversely affected.. Our commercial work depends on certain sectors of the global economy that are highly cyclical, which can lead to substantial variations in our revenue and profit from period to period.. In recent years, we have expanded our work with commercial clients. Our commercial clients, which include clients outside the U.S., generated approximately 38%, 35%, and 35% of our revenue in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. This increased reliance on commercial clients presents new risks and challenges. For example, our commercial work is heavily concentrated in cyclical industries such as energy, air transportation, environmental, health, retail and financial services. Demand for our services from our commercial clients has historically declined when their industries have experienced downturns, and we expect a decline in demand for our services when these industries experience downturns in the future.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. Recent changes to U.S. tax laws may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operation and create the risk that we may need to adjust our accounting for these changes.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"), enacted in late 2017, makes significant changes to U.S. tax laws and includes numerous provisions that affect businesses, including ours.  For instance, as a result of lower corporate tax rates, the Tax Act tends to reduce both the value of deferred tax assets and the amount of deferred tax liabilities.  It also limits interest rate deductions and the amount of net operating losses that can be used each year and alters the expensing of capital expenditures.  Other provisions have international tax consequences for businesses like ours that operate internationally. The Tax Act is unclear in certain respects and will require interpretations and implementing regulations by the Internal Revenue Service, as well as state tax authorities, and the Tax Act could be subject to amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase the adverse (and positive) impacts of the Tax Act. The accounting treatment of these tax law changes is complex, and some of the changes may affect both current and future periods.  Others will primarily affect future periods.  As discussed elsewhere in this Report on Form 10-K, we believe our analysis and computations of the tax effects of the Tax Act on us is substantially, but not entirely, complete. Consistent with guidance from the SEC, our financial statements reflect our estimates of the tax effects of the Tax Act on us.  Although we believe these estimates are reasonable, they are provisional and may be adjusted prior to the end of 2018. Any such estimates could affect our current or future financial statements, or both.. Maintaining our client relationships and professional reputation are critical to our ability to successfully win new contracts and renew expired contracts.. Our client relationships and professional reputation are key factors in maintaining and growing our business, revenue and profit levels under contracts with our clients. We continually bid for and execute new contracts, and our existing contracts continually become subject to re-competition and expiration. If we are not able to replace the revenue from these contracts, either through follow-on contracts or new contracts for those requirements or for other requirements, our revenue and operating results may be adversely affected. Upon the expiration of a contract, we typically seek a new contract or subcontractor role relating to that client to replace the revenue generated by the expired contract. There can be no assurance that those expiring contracts we are servicing will continue after their expiration, that the client will re-procure those requirements, that any such re-procurement will not be restricted in a way that would eliminate us from the competition (e.g., set asides for small businesses), or that we will be successful in any such re-procurements or in obtaining subcontractor roles. Any factor that diminishes our reputation or client relationships with federal, state and local and international government clients, as well as commercial clients, could make it substantially more difficult for us to compete successfully for new engagements and qualified employees. To the extent our reputation and/or client relationships deteriorate, our revenue and operating results could be adversely affected.. 18. Our reliance on GSA Schedule and other IDIQ contracts creates the risk of volatility in our revenue and profit levels.. We believe that one of the elements of our success is our position as a prime contractor under GSA Schedule contracts and other IDIQ contracts and we believe this position is important to our ability to sell our services to federal government clients. However, these contract vehicles require us to compete for each delivery order and task order, rather than having a more predictable stream of activity during the term of a multi-year contract. In addition, we may spend considerable cost and managerial time and effort to prepare bids and proposals for contracts, delivery orders or task orders that we may not win. There can be no assurance that we will continue to obtain revenue from such contracts at current levels, or in any amount, in the future. To the extent that federal government agencies and departments choose to employ GSA Schedule contracts and other IDIQ contracts encompassing activities for which we are not able to compete or provide services, we could lose business, which would negatively affect our revenue and profitability.. We may not receive revenue corresponding to the full amount of our backlog, or may receive it later than we expect, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating results.. The calculation of backlog is highly subjective and conditioned on numerous uncertainties and estimates, and there can be no assurance that we will in fact receive the amounts we have included in our backlog. Our assessment of a contract's potential value is based on factors such as the amount of revenue we have recently recognized on that contract, our experience in utilizing contract capacity on similar types of contracts, and our professional judgment. In the case of contracts that may be renewed at the option of the client, we generally calculate backlog by assuming that the client will exercise all of its renewal options; however, the client may elect not to do so. In addition, federal government contracts rely on congressional appropriation of funding, which is typically provided only partially at any point during the term of federal government contracts, and all or some of the work to be performed under a contract may require future appropriations by Congress and the subsequent allocation of funding by the procuring agency or department to the contract. Protests of contracts continue to be common in our industry.  We do not include contract awards that are subject to a pending protest in our calculation of backlog.  If a contract previously included in backlog becomes the subject of a protest, we would adjust backlog to remove that amount and reassess following resolution of the protest. Our estimate of the portion of backlog that we expect to recognize as revenue in any future period may differ from actual results because the receipt and timing of this revenue often depends on subsequent appropriation and allocation of funding and is subject to various contingencies, such as timing of task orders and delivery orders, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, we may never receive revenue from some of the engagements that are included in our backlog, and this risk is greater with respect to unfunded backlog. Although we adjust our backlog to reflect modifications to or renewals of existing contracts, awards of new contracts, or approvals of expenditures, if we subsequently fail to realize revenue corresponding to our backlog, our revenue and operating results could be adversely affected.. Failure to identify, hire, train and retain talented employees who are committed to our mission and vision could have a negative effect on our reputation and our business.. Our business, which entails the provision of professional services to government and commercial clients, largely depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. Additionally, as our business continues to evolve, as we acquire new businesses, and as we provide a wider range of services, we become increasingly dependent on the capabilities of our employees in order to meet the needs of our diverse client base. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees that are committed to our mission and vision, we may incur higher costs related to an increase in subcontractors, hiring, training and retention. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. Additionally, the loss of key personnel could impair our ability to effectively serve our clients and maintain and grow our business, and our future revenue and operating results could be adversely affected.. Because much of our work is performed under task orders and delivery orders and, on certain occasions, other short-term assignments, we are exposed to the risk of not having sufficient work for our staff, which can affect revenue and profit.. We perform some of our work under short-term contracts. Even under many of our longer-term contracts, we perform much of our work under individual task orders and delivery orders, many of which are awarded on a. 19. competitive basis. If we cannot obtain new work in a timely fashion, whether through new contracts, task orders, or delivery orders, modifications to existing contracts, or otherwise, we may not be able to keep our staff profitably utilized, which may result in challenges related to retaining talented members of our staff and also adversely impact our financial results. There can be no assurance that we can profitably manage the utilization of, or retain, our staff.. If we are unable to accurately estimate and control our contract costs, then we may incur losses on our contracts, which could decrease our operating margins and reduce our profits. In particular, our fixed-price contracts could increase the unpredictability of our earnings if we cannot accurately estimate and control our contract costs.. It is important for us to accurately estimate and control our contract costs so that we can maintain positive operating margins and profitability. As described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, we generally enter into three principal types of contracts with our clients: fixed-price, time-and-materials and cost-plus.. We derived 39%, 39%, and 38% of our revenue from fixed-price contracts 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. Under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, we are exposed to a number of risks. We realize a profit on fixed-price contracts only if we can control our costs and prevent cost overruns on our contracts. Fixed-price contracts require cost and scheduling estimates that are based on a number of assumptions, including those about future economic conditions, costs, and availability of labor, equipment and materials, and other exigencies. We could experience cost overruns if these estimates are inaccurate as a result of errors or ambiguities in the contract specifications, or become inaccurate as a result of a change in circumstances following the submission of the estimate due to, among other things, unanticipated technical problems, difficulties in obtaining permits or approvals, changes in local laws or labor conditions, weather delays, or the inability of our vendors or subcontractors to perform. If cost overruns occur, we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that project. If a project is significant, or if there are one or more common issues that impact multiple projects, costs overruns could increase the unpredictability of our earnings, as well as have an adverse impact on our business and earnings.. We provide digital marketing services in highly competitive and constantly evolving markets. Our success in these markets depends upon our ability to develop and integrate new technologies into our business and enhance our existing products and services, as well as our ability to respond to rapid changes in technology in order to remain competitive.. In our consumer and financial market, we provide digital marketing services in highly competitive markets. We compete principally with large systems consulting and implementation firms, traditional and digital advertising and marketing agencies, offshore consulting and outsourcing companies, and clients' internal information systems departments. To a lesser extent, other competitors include boutique consulting firms that maintain specialized skills and/or are geographically focused. We expect these competitors to devote significant effort to maintaining and growing their respective market shares. If we cannot respond effectively to advances by our competitors in this market, or grow our own business efficiently, our overall business and operating results could be adversely affected.. Our success in this competitive market depends in part on our ability to adapt to rapid technological advances and evolving standards in computer hardware and software development and media infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs, newly-developed digital marketing services and platform introductions and enhancements. If, within this market, we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, to enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet demand, our overall business and operating results could be adversely affected.. Litigation, claims, disputes, audits, reviews, and investigations in connection with the completed Road Home contract expose us to many different types of liability, may divert management attention, and could increase our costs.. In June 2006, our subsidiary, ICF Emergency Management Services, LLC (\"ICF Emergency\"), was awarded the Road Home contract by the State of Louisiana, Office of Community Development (the \"OCD\"), to manage a program designed primarily to help homeowners and landlords of small rental properties affected by Hurricanes Rita and Katrina by providing them compensation for the uninsured, uncompensated damages they suffered from the hurricanes (the \"Program\"). With an aggregate value of $912 million, the Road Home contract was our largest contract throughout its three-year duration, which ended on June 11, 2009.. 20. The Road Home contract provided us with significant opportunities, but also created substantial risks. A number of these risks continued beyond the term of the contract. We still have lawsuits pending, and other claims have been made against us in connection with this contract. New lawsuits may be filed and new claims may be made against us in the future including, but not limited to, claims by subcontractors and others who are dissatisfied with the amount of money they have received from, or their treatment under, the Program. We have defended such lawsuits and claims vigorously and plan to continue to do so, but we may not prevail in future cases. Although the contract provides that, with several exceptions, we are allowed to charge, as an expense under the contract, reasonable costs and fees incurred in defending and paying claims brought by third parties arising out of our performance, there can be no assurance that our legal costs and fees will be reimbursed. The State of Louisiana has not reimbursed us for the majority of such costs or fees and has not reimbursed any such costs or fees since 2008. The outstanding contract receivables related to defending and paying claims were fully reserved as of December 31, 2017.. In addition and as discussed in \"Note 17 - Commitments and Contingencies  -  Road Home Contract\" in our financial statements, on June 10, 2016, the OCD filed a written administrative demand (the \"Administrative Demand\") with the Louisiana Commissioner of Administration against ICF Emergency in connection with the administration of the Program. In its administrative demand, the OCD sought approximately $200.8 million in alleged overpayments to Program grant recipients. The OCD separately supplemented the amount of recovery it is seeking in total approximately $220.2 million. The State of Louisiana, through the Division of Administration, also filed suit (the \"Proceeding\") in Louisiana state court on June 10, 2016 broadly alleging and seeking recoupment for the same claim made in the Administrative Demand. On September 21, 2016, the Commissioner of the Division of Administration notified the OCD and the Company of his decision to defer jurisdiction of the Administrative Demand. In so doing, the Commissioner declined to reach a decision on the merits, stated that his deferral would not be deemed to grant or deny any portion of the OCD's claim, and authorized the parties to proceed on the matter in the Proceeding. The Company continues to believe that neither the Administrative Demand nor the Proceeding has any merit, intends to vigorously defend its position, and has therefore not recorded a liability as of December 31, 2017.. As discussed above, the Road Home contract has been, and we expect it to continue to be, audited, investigated, reviewed, and monitored frequently by federal and state government authorities and their representatives. These activities may consume significant management time and effort. Further, the contract provides that we are subject to audits for a period after the date of the last payment made under the contract. Findings from any audit, investigation, review, monitoring, or similar activity could subject us to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions from federal and state government authorities, which could substantially adversely affect our reputation, our revenue, our operating results, and the value of our stock.. We derive significant revenue and profit from contracts awarded through a competitive bidding process, which can impose substantial costs on us, and we will lose revenue and profit if we fail to compete effectively.. We derive significant revenue and profit from contracts that are awarded through a competitive bidding process. Competitive bidding imposes substantial costs and presents a number of risks, including the:. •  Substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we spend to prepare bids and proposals;. •  Need to estimate accurately the resources and costs that will be required to service any contracts we are awarded, sometimes in advance of the final determination of their full scope;. •  Expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding, as discussed in the risk factor below; and. •  Opportunity cost of not bidding on and winning other contracts we may have otherwise pursued.. To the extent we engage in competitive bidding and are unable to win particular contracts, we not only incur substantial costs in the bidding process that negatively affect our operating results, but we may lose the opportunity to operate in the market for the services provided under those contracts for a number of years. Even if we win a particular contract through competitive bidding, our profit margins may be depressed or we may even suffer losses as a result of the costs incurred through the bidding process and the need to lower our prices to overcome competition.. 21. Our business could be adversely affected by delays caused by our competitors protesting contract awards received by us, which could stop our work. Likewise, we may protest the contracts awarded to some of our competitors, a process that takes the time and energy of our management and we may incur additional legal and consultant costs.. Due in part to the competitive bidding process under which government contracts are awarded, we are at risk of incurring expenses and delays if one or more of our competitors protest contracts awarded to us. Contract protests remain common in our industry and may result in a requirement to resubmit offers for the protested contract or in the termination, reduction, or modification of the awarded contract. It can take many months to resolve contract protests and, in the interim, the contracting government agency or department may suspend our performance under the contract pending the outcome of the protest. Even if we prevail in defending the contract award, the resulting delay in the startup and funding of the work under these contracts may adversely affect our operating results.. Moreover, in order to protect our competitive position, we may protest the contract awards of our competitors. This process takes the time and energy of our executives and employees, is likely to divert management's attention from other important matters, and could cause us to incur additional legal and consultant costs.. Our international operations pose additional risks to our profitability and operating results.. We have offices in the U.K., Belgium, China, India and Canada, among others, and expect to continue to have international operations and offices, some of which are in underdeveloped countries that do not have a well-established business infrastructure. We also perform work in some countries where we do not have a physical office. Some of the countries in which we work have a history of political instability or may expose our employees and subcontractors to physical danger. Expansion into selective new geographic regions requires considerable management and financial resources, the expenditure of which may negatively impact our results, and we may never see any return on our investment.. Geopolitical events in the European Union (\"E.U.\") may also adversely impact our business. Following a referendum on June 23, 2016 in which voters in the U.K. approved an exit from the E.U. On March 29, 2017 the U.K. initiated the process under Article 50 of the Treaty of the European Union, commencing a period of up to two years for the E.U. and other E.U. member states to negotiate the terms of a withdrawal (often referred to as \"Brexit\").  Such an exit from the E.U. is unprecedented, and it is still unclear how the U.K.'s access to the E.U. Single Market, and the wider commercial, legal and regulatory environment in which we, our customers and our counterparties operate, will be impacted.  Our U.K. and Belgian operations have traditionally serviced most of our European clients, including the EU, and these operations could be disrupted by Brexit, particularly if there is a change in the U.K.'s relationship to the EU Single Market.  The uncertainty surrounding the terms of the U.K.'s exit and its consequences could adversely impact customer and investor confidence, result in additional market volatility and adversely affect our businesses and results of operations.. Other member states or portions thereof may conduct similar referenda leading to an exit from the EU, resulting in a reduction in funding for the European Commission that could lead to a decrease in the funding and scope of our work for that client. In addition, security and sovereignty issues resulting from geopolitical events, or the EU negotiations driven by those events, could change the current balance of responsibility established between the European Commission and member nations, which could also reduce the funding and scope of our work for that client.. Our international operations are subject to risks associated with operating in, and selling to and in, countries other than the U.S., that could, directly or indirectly, adversely affect our international and domestic operations and our overall revenue, profit, and operating results including, but not limited to:. •  Compliance with the laws, rules, regulations, policies, legal standards, and enforcement mechanisms of the U.S. and the other countries in which we operate, including bribery and anti-corruption laws, economic sanctions, trade restrictions, local tax and income laws, and local labor and employment laws, which are sometimes inconsistent;. •  Restrictions on the ability to repatriate profits to the U.S. or otherwise move funds;. •  Potential personal injury to personnel who may be exposed to military conflicts and other hostile situations in foreign countries;. 22. •  Expropriation and nationalization of our assets or those of our subcontractors, and other inabilities to protect our property rights; and/or. •  Difficulties in managing and staffing such operations, including obtaining work permits or visas, identifying qualified local employees, operating according to different local labor laws and regulations, dealing with different local business cultures and practices, and collecting contract receivables.. In addition, because of our work with international clients, certain of our revenues and costs are denominated in other currencies, then translated to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Our revenues and profits may decrease as a result of currency fluctuations and devaluations and limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars and in the conversion between foreign currencies. We currently have forward contract agreements (\"hedges\") related to our operations in the E.U. hedging the translation between the Euro and the pound sterling. We recognize changes in the fair-value of the hedges in our results of operations. We may increase the number, size and scope of our hedges as we analyze options for mitigating our foreign exchange risk. We cannot be sure that our hedges will be successful in reducing the risks to us of our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and, in fact, the hedges may adversely affect our operating results.. As we develop new services, clients and practices, enter new lines of business, and focus more of our business on providing a full range of client solutions, our operating risks increase.. As part of our corporate strategy, we are attempting to leverage our advisory services to sell our full suite of services across the life cycle of a policy, program, project, or initiative, and we are regularly searching for ways to provide new services to clients. In addition, we plan to extend our services to new clients, into new lines of business, and into new selected geographic locations. As we focus more on our delivery of a full range of consulting services from advisory through implementation and attempt to develop new services, clients, practice areas and lines of business these efforts could be unsuccessful and adversely affect our results of operations.. Such growth efforts place substantial additional demands on our management and staff, as well as on our information, financial, administrative and operational systems. We may not be able to manage these demands successfully. Growth may require increased recruiting efforts, business development, and selling, marketing and other actions that are expensive and increase risk. We may need to invest more in our people and systems, controls, compliance efforts, policies and procedures than we anticipate. Further, we may need to enhance or modify our systems or processes, or transition to more efficient or effective ones, and these changes and how we handle them may impact the business in short- or long-term. Therefore, even if we do grow, the demands on our people and systems, controls, compliance efforts, policies and procedures may be sufficiently great that the quality of our work, our operating margins, and our operating results suffer, at least in the short-term, and perhaps in the long-term.. Efforts involving a different focus, new services, new clients, new practice areas, and new lines of business, include risks associated with our inexperience and competition from mature participants in those areas. Our expansion of services may result in decisions that could harm our profit and operating results. In particular, implementation and improvement services often relate to the development, implementation and improvement of critical infrastructure or operating systems that our clients may view as \"mission critical,\" and if we fail to satisfy the needs of our clients in providing these services, our clients could incur significant costs and losses for which they could seek compensation from us.. The diversity of the services we provide, and the clients we serve, may create actual, potential, and perceived conflicts of interest and conflicts of business that limit our growth and could lead to potential liabilities for us.. Because we provide services to a wide array of both government and commercial clients, occasions arise where, due to actual, potential, or perceived conflicts of interest or business conflicts, we cannot perform work for which we are qualified. A number of our contracts contain limitations on the work we can perform for others, such as, for example, when we are assisting a government agency or department in developing regulations or enforcement strategies. Actual, potential, and perceived conflicts limit the work we can do and, consequently, can limit our growth and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if we fail to address actual or potential conflicts properly, or even if we simply fail to recognize a perceived conflict, we may be in violation of our existing contracts, may otherwise incur liability, may lose future business for not preventing the conflict from arising, and our reputation may suffer. Particularly as we continue to grow our commercial business, we anticipate that conflicts of interest and business conflicts will pose a greater risk.. 23. Our relationships with other contractors are important to our business and, if disrupted, could cause us damage.. We derive a portion of our revenue from contracts under which we act as a subcontractor or from \"teaming\" arrangements in which we and other contractors jointly bid on particular contracts, projects, or programs. As a subcontractor or team member, we often lack control over fulfillment of a contract, and poor performance on the contract, whether resulting from our performance or the performance of another contractor, could tarnish our reputation, result in a reduction of the amount of our work under, or termination of, that contract or other contracts, and cause us not to obtain future work, even when we perform as required. Moreover, our revenue, profit and operating results could be adversely affected if any prime contractor or teammate does not pay our invoices in a timely fashion, chooses to offer products or services of the type that we provide, teams with other companies to provide such products or services, or otherwise reduces its reliance upon us for such products or services.. We depend on our intellectual property and our failure to protect it could harm our competitive position.. Our success depends in part upon our internally-developed technology and models, proprietary processes, and other intellectual property that we incorporate in our products and utilize to provide our services. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could market services or products similar to our services and products, which could reduce demand for our offerings. Government clients typically retain a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free right to use the intellectual property we develop for them in a manner defined within government regulations, including providing it to other government agencies or departments, as well as to our competitors in connection with their performance of government contracts. When necessary, we seek authorization to use intellectual property developed for the government or to secure export authorization. Government clients may grant us the right to commercialize software developed with government funding, but they are not required to do so. If we improperly use intellectual property that was even partially funded by government clients, these clients could seek damages and royalties from us, sanction us, and prevent us from working on future government contracts. Actions could also be taken against us if we improperly use intellectual property belonging to others besides our government clients. In addition, there can be substantial costs associated with protecting our intellectual property, which can also have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may be harmed by intellectual property infringement claims.. We have been subject to claims, and are likely to be subject to future claims, that the intellectual property we use in delivering services and business solutions to our clients infringes upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our employees develop much of the intellectual property that we use to provide our services and business solutions to our clients, but we also acquire or obtain rights to use intellectual property through mergers or acquisitions of other companies, engage third parties to assist us in the development of intellectual property and license technology from other vendors. If our vendors, our employees or third parties assert claims that we or our clients are infringing on their intellectual property, we could incur substantial costs to defend those claims, even if we prevail. In addition, if any of these infringement claims are ultimately successful, we could be required to:. •  Pay substantial damages;. •  Cease selling and using products and services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;. •  Obtain a license or additional licenses from our vendors or other third parties, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all; and. •  Re-design our products and services that rely on the challenged intellectual property, which may be very expensive or commercially impractical.. Any of these outcomes could further adversely affect our operating results.. Systems and/or service failures could interrupt our operations, leading to reduced revenue and profit.. Any interruption in our operations or any systems' failures, including, but not limited to: (i) the inability of our staff to perform their work in a timely fashion, whether caused by limited access to and/or closure of our and/or our clients' offices or otherwise; (ii) the failure of network, software and/or hardware systems; and (iii) other interruptions and failures, whether caused by us, a third-party service provider, unauthorized intruders and/or hackers, computer viruses, natural disasters, power shortages, terrorist attacks or otherwise, could cause loss of data. 24. and interruptions or delays in our business or that of our clients, or both. In addition, the failure or disruption of mail, communications and/or utilities could cause an interruption or suspension of our operations or otherwise harm our reputation or business. Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption and, as a result, revenue, profits and operating results could be adversely affected.. Improper disclosure of confidential and personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation.. We store and process increasingly large amounts of confidential information concerning our employees, customers and vendors, as well as confidential information on behalf of our customers (such as information regarding applicants in programs on which we perform services through our contractual relationships with customers). Therefore, we must ensure that we are at all times compliant with the various privacy laws, rules, and regulations in all of the countries within which we are operating. These laws, rules, and regulations can vary significantly from country to country, with many being more onerous than those in the U.S. Moreover, we must ensure that all of our vendors who have access to such information also have the appropriate privacy policies, procedures and protections in place. There can be substantial costs associated with protecting confidential information and maintaining compliance with the various privacy laws, rules and regulations, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Although we believe we take measures to protect such information that are appropriate given the size and nature of our business, the continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches of other companies provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. In particular, cybersecurity attacks are evolving, and we face the constant risk of cybersecurity threats, whether from deliberate attacks or unintentional events, including computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, phishing attacks, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and/or corruption of data. In particular, as a federal government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption with respect to personally identifiable, sensitive but unclassified, classified, or otherwise protected data resulting from an attack by computer hackers, foreign governments and/or cyber terrorists. Improper disclosure of this information could harm our reputation and affect our relationships with business partners, lead to legal exposure, or subject us to liability under laws, rules and regulations that protect personal or other confidential data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. With the passage and upcoming enforcement of the GDPR, we are subject to stricter regulations surrounding our E.U. privacy, and could be subject to fines for failures to adhere to the new standards. In addition, any failure of third-party systems, which are outside of our control but still impact us, could have similar adverse effects.. RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS. When we undertake acquisitions, they may present integration challenges, fail to perform as expected, increase our liabilities, and/or reduce our earnings.. One of our growth strategies is to make strategic acquisitions. When we complete acquisitions, it may be challenging and costly to integrate the acquired businesses due to operating and integrating new accounting systems, differences in the locations of personnel and facilities, differences in corporate cultures, disparate business models, or other reasons. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquired companies, our revenue and operating results could suffer. In addition, we may not successfully achieve the anticipated cost efficiencies and synergies from these acquisitions. Also, our costs for managerial, operational, financial, and administrative systems may increase and be higher than anticipated. During and following the integration of an acquired business, we may experience attrition, including losing key employees and/or clients of the acquired business, which could adversely affect our future revenue and operating results and prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition.. Businesses we acquire may have liabilities or adverse operating issues, or both, that we either fail to discover through due diligence or underestimate prior to the consummation of the acquisition. These liabilities and/or issues may include the acquired business' failure to comply with, or other violations of, applicable laws, rules, or regulations or contractual or other obligations or liabilities. As the successor owner, we may be financially responsible for, and may suffer harm to our reputation or otherwise be adversely affected by, such liabilities and/or issues. An acquired business also may have problems with internal controls over financial reporting, which could in turn cause us to have significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our own internal controls over financial reporting. These and any other costs, liabilities, issues, and/or disruptions associated with any past or future acquisitions, and the related integration, could harm our operating results.. 25. As a result of our acquisitions, we have substantial amounts of goodwill and intangible assets, and changes in business conditions could cause these assets to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would adversely affect our operating results.. All of our acquisitions have involved purchase prices well in excess of tangible asset values net of liabilities assumed, resulting in the creation of a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. As of December 31, 2017, goodwill and purchased intangibles accounted for approximately 62% and 3%, respectively, of our total assets. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\"), we do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets acquired in a purchase business combination that are determined to have indefinite useful lives.  Instead, we review them for impairment annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise). Although we have to date determined that such assets have not been impaired, future events or changes in circumstances that result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets would have a negative impact on our profitability and operating results.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CORPORATE AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may prevent or deter potential acquisition bids to acquire us and other actions that stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result.. Our charter documents contain the following provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect:. •  Our board of directors is divided into three classes, making it more difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board;. •  Directors may be removed only for cause;. •  Our stockholders are not permitted to call a special meeting of the stockholders;. •  All stockholder actions are required to be taken by a vote of the stockholders at an annual or special meeting or by a written consent signed by all of our stockholders;. •  Our stockholders are required to comply with advance notice procedures to nominate candidates for election to our board of directors or to place stockholders' proposals on the agenda for consideration at stockholder meetings; and. •  The approval of the holders of capital stock representing at least two-thirds of our voting power is required to amend our indemnification obligations, director classifications, stockholder proposal requirements, and director candidate nomination requirements set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws.. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which regulates corporate acquisitions. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals; delay or prevent a change-in-control transaction; discourage others from making tender offers for our common stock; and/or prevent changes in our management.. There are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness which could reduce our profitability, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities and reduce the value of our stock.. As of December 31, 2017, we had an aggregate of $206.3 million of outstanding indebtedness under a credit facility that will mature on May 17, 2022. Subject to the limits contained in the agreements governing our outstanding debt, we may incur additional debt in the future. Our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness, as well as meet our debt and operations covenant requirements, is dependent upon our ability to, among other things, manage our business operations, and generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt. If we are unable to comply with the terms of our financing agreements or obtain additional required financing, this could ultimately result in a significant adverse effect on our financial results and the value of our stock. Among other things, our debt could:. •  Make it difficult to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other general corporate purposes;. 26. •  Result in a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations being dedicated to the payment of the principal and interest on our debt, as well as used to make debt service payments;. •  Limit our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business and the marketplace;. •  Place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other less leveraged firms; and. •  Increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and rises in interest rates.. Should any of these or other unforeseen consequences arise, they could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, future business opportunities and/or ability to satisfy our obligations under our debt.. We cannot assure you that we will pay special or regular dividends on our stock in the future.. The board of directors has authorized and declared a regular dividend on February 27, 2018 for the first time in the Company's history.  The declaration of any future dividends and the establishment of the per share amount, record dates and payment dates for any such future dividends are subject to the discretion of the board of directors taking into account future earnings, cash flows, net income, dividend yield and other factors. Authorization of dividends by the Board is subject to adherence/compliance with the Company's credit facility. There can be no assurance that the board of directors will declare any dividends in the future. To the extent that expectations by market participants regarding the potential payment, or amount, of any special or regular dividend prove to be incorrect, the price of our common stock may be materially and negatively affected and investors that bought shares of our common stock based on those expectations may suffer a loss on their investment."
