[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could impact our operations. The following highlights some of the factors that have affected, and in the future could affect, our operations:. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE. The Company may not generate sufficient cash in the next twelve months necessary to fund continued operations.. Our ability to make cash payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund future operations will depend on our ability to generate significant operating cash flow in the future. This ability is, to a significant extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate cash flow from operations in amount sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, including fees payable in connection with waivers obtained from our creditors and lenders, costs related to the impairment analysis discussed below and costs related to ongoing litigation (see \"Legal Proceedings\" and the risk factor entitled \" - We have been named in securities litigations, which could be expensive and could divert our management's attention.  There may be additional class action and/or derivative claims\"). As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, on or before its maturity, obtain additional equity or debt financing, sell existing assets or enter into strategic alliances with other parties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or on terms that would be advantageous to our stockholders. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow, refinance our indebtedness or incur additional indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms could adversely affect our financial condition and could cause us to be unable to service our existing debt. If we are unable to obtain a waiver, we would be in default under our existing indebtedness, the holders of such indebtedness could exercise their rights as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Even if we are able to obtain such waivers, limited liquidity may cause us to delay or abandon some or all of our plans to invest in new brands and may have a material and adverse effect our ability to generate and/or increase revenue going forward or cause us to be unable to maintain existing licenses on favorable terms and conditions.. 16. We may require additional capital to finance the acquisition of additional brands and our inability to raise such capital on beneficial terms or at all could restrict our growth.. We may, in the future, require additional capital to help fund all or part of potential acquisitions. If, at the time required, we do not have sufficient cash to finance those additional capital needs, we will need to raise additional funds through equity and/or debt financing. We cannot guarantee that, if and when needed, additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Further, if additional capital is needed and is either unavailable or cost prohibitive, our growth may be limited as we may need to change our business strategy to slow the rate of, or eliminate, our expansion plans. In addition, any additional financing we undertake could impose additional covenants upon us that restrict our operating flexibility, and, if we issue equity securities to raise capital or as acquisition consideration, our existing stockholders may experience dilution or the new securities may have rights senior to those of our common stock.. Due to the delayed filing with the SEC of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, and our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017, we are not currently eligible to use a registration statement on Form S-3 to register the offer and sale of securities, which may adversely affect our ability to raise future capital or complete acquisitions.. As a result of the delayed filing with the SEC of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, and our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017, we will not be eligible to register the offer and sale of our securities using a registration statement on Form S-3 until we have timely filed all periodic reports required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for one year, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to file all such reports in a timely manner in the future. Should we wish to register the offer and sale of additional securities to the public, our transaction costs and the amount of time required to complete the transaction could increase, making it more difficult to execute any such transaction successfully and potentially harming our business, strategic plan and financial condition. Furthermore, if we were to experience delays in making our future periodic filings with the SEC, it could subject us to delisting of our common stock from trading on the NASDAQ exchange. The delisting of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of and hinder our stockholders' ability to trade in our common stock, and could also affect our ability to access the capital markets or complete acquisitions. If our shares of common stock were delisted, there could be no assurance of it again being listed for trading on NASDAQ or any other exchange.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR DEBT. Our existing and future debt obligations could impair our liquidity and financial condition, and in the event we are unable to meet our debt obligations we could lose title to certain trademarks.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company's consolidated balance sheet reflects debt of approximately $800.8 million (which is net of $7.4 million of debt issuance costs), including (i) secured debt of $574.4 million under our Series 2012-1 4.229% Senior Secured Notes, Class A-2, Series 2013-1 4.352% Senior Secured Notes and Class A-2 (collectively, the \"Senior Secured Notes\"), Variable Funding Notes and 2017 Senior Secured Term Loan, and (ii) $233.9 million net debt carrying value of our 1.5% Convertible Notes; however, the principal amount owed to the holders of our 1.50% convertible senior subordinated notes due March 2018 (the \"1.50% Convertible Notes\"), was $236.2 million as of such date. In accordance with ASC 470, our 1.50% Convertible Notes are included in our $797.9 million of consolidated debt at a net debt carrying value of $233.9 million. As previously disclosed, in February 2018, the Company issued $125 million of 5.75% convertible senior subordinated secured second lien notes due 2023 (the \"5.75% Convertible Notes\"). On March 14, 2018, the Company drew down $110 million under the Second Delayed Draw Term Loan (defined below) and used those proceeds, along with cash on hand, to make a payment to the trustee under the indenture governing the 1.50% Convertible Notes to repay the remaining 1.50% Convertible Notes at maturity on March 15, 2018. We may also assume or incur additional debt, including secured debt, in the future in connection with, or to fund, future acquisitions or refinance our existing debt obligations. Our outstanding debt obligations:. •  could impair our liquidity;. •  could make it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its other obligations;. •  require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our debt obligations, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate requirements;. •  could impede us from obtaining additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes;. •  impose restrictions on us with respect to the use of our available cash, including in connection with future acquisitions;. •  make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business prospects and could limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our licensing markets; and. •  could place us at a competitive disadvantage when compared to our competitors who have less debt and/or less leverage.. 17. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, approximately $12.7 million, or 10%, of the Company's total cash (including restricted cash) was held in foreign subsidiaries. Our investments in these foreign subsidiaries are considered indefinitely reinvested and unavailable for the payment of any U.S. based expenditures, including debt obligations. Any repatriation of cash from these foreign subsidiaries may require the accrual and payment of U.S. federal and certain state taxes, which could negatively impact our results of operations and/or the amount of available funds. While we currently have no intention to repatriate cash from these subsidiaries, should the need arise domestically, there is no guarantee that we could do so without adverse consequences.. In the event that we are unable to raise the additional financing referenced above, or we fail to make any required payment under agreements governing our indebtedness or fail to comply with the financial and operating covenants contained in those agreements, we would be in default regarding that indebtedness. A debt default could significantly diminish the market value and marketability of our common stock, result in the acceleration of the payment obligations under all or a portion of our consolidated indebtedness and impact the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.. The terms of our debt agreements have restrictive covenants and our failure to comply with any of these could put us in default, which would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects, and could cause us to lose title to our key IP assets.. Unless and until we repay all outstanding borrowings under our securitized debt, we will remain subject to the restrictive terms of these borrowings. The securitized debt, under which certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries (the \"ABS Co-Issuers\") issued and guaranteed the Senior Secured Notes and a revolving financing facility consisting of variable funding notes, herein referred to as Variable Funding Notes, contain a number of covenants, with the most significant financial covenant being a debt service coverage calculation. These covenants limit the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things:. •  sell assets;. •  engage in mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations;. •  declare or pay distributions on their limited liability company interests;. •  incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness or guarantees; and. •  incur liens.. These restrictions could reduce our liquidity and thereby affect our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock. The securitized debt requires us to maintain a specified financial ratio relating to available cash to service the borrowings at the end of each fiscal quarter. Our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not satisfy such a test. A breach of this covenant could result in a rapid amortization event or default under the securitized debt.. In the event that a rapid amortization event occurs under the indenture (including, without limitation, upon an event of default under the indenture or the failure to repay the securitized debt at the end of the five year interest-only period), the funds available to us would be reduced or eliminated, which would in turn reduce our ability to operate or grow our business.. Furthermore, a reserve account has been established for the benefit of the secured parties under the indenture for the purpose of trapping cash upon the occurrence of our failure to maintain a specified financial ratio at the end of each fiscal quarter. Once it commences, such cash trapping period would extend until the quarterly payment date on which that financial ratio becomes equal to or exceeds the minimum ratio. In the event that a cash trapping period commences, the funds available for the ABS Co-Issuers to pay amounts to us will be reduced or eliminated, which would in turn reduce our ability to support our business and service repayment obligations under our other financing arrangements (including under the DB Credit Agreement (defined in the section entitled \"Liquidity and Capital Resources - Obligations and commitments - 2017 Senior Secured Term Loan\") and 5.75% Convertible Notes).. In an event of default, all unpaid amounts under the Senior Secured Notes and Variable Funding Notes could become immediately due and payable at the direction or consent of holders of a majority of the outstanding Senior Secured Notes. Such acceleration of our debt could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity if we are unable to negotiate mutually acceptable terms with our lenders or if alternate funding is not available to us.. Furthermore, if amounts owed under the securitized debt were to become accelerated because of a failure to meet the specified financial ratio or to make required payments, the holders of our Senior Secured Notes would have the right to foreclose on the Candie's, Bongo, Joe Boxer, Rampage, Mudd, London Fog, Mossimo, Ocean Pacific/OP, Danskin/Danskin Now, Rocawear, Cannon, Fieldcrest, Royal Velvet, Charisma, Starter and Waverly trademarks in the United States and Canada (with the exception of the London Fog brand for outerwear in the United States); on our joint venture interests in Hardy Way, MG Icon and ZY Holdings; on the equity interests in certain of our subsidiaries; and on other related assets securing the notes.. 18. The DB Credit Agreement and the indenture in respect of our 5.75% Convertible Notes (the \"5.75% Notes Indenture\") also contain a number of covenants that restrict our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries, their respective subsidiaries and certain joint ventures to, among other things:. •  grant liens on certain assets;. •  consummate specified types of acquisitions or acquisitions requiring cash consideration in excess of specified amounts;. •  make fundamental changes (including mergers and consolidations);. •  make restricted payments and investments; and. •  incur or prepay certain indebtedness.. In addition, our wholly-owned subsidiary IBG Borrower LLC (\"IBG Borrower\"), as borrower under the DB Credit Agreement, must maintain a specified minimum asset coverage ratio and leverage ratio.. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the DB Credit Agreement or a default under the 5.75% Notes Indenture, in addition to the interest rate increasing by an additional 3% per year under the Credit Agreement, all unpaid amounts under the DB Credit Agreement and the 5.75% Convertible Notes could become immediately due and payable.   An acceleration of our debt could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity if we were to be unable to negotiate mutually acceptable terms with our lenders or holders of the 5.75% Convertible Notes or other debt obligations as they come due. In addition, a default under one debt instrument relating to our existing indebtedness could in turn permit lenders or holders under other debt instruments to declare borrowings outstanding under those instruments to be due and payable pursuant to cross-default and cross-acceleration clauses.. In the event of a default under our indebtedness under our DB Credit Agreement, which is not waived by our lenders thereunder, such lenders may be able to declare all of the indebtedness under such facilities, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable.. In the event of a default under our indebtedness under our DB Credit Agreement, which is not waived by our lenders thereunder, such lenders generally would be able to declare all of the indebtedness under such facilities, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable. In addition, borrowings under our DB Credit Agreement are secured by a first-priority lien on substantially all of the assets of the Guarantors defined therein. In the event of a default under that facility, such lenders generally would be entitled to seize the collateral, including assets which are necessary to operate our business.. Pursuant to the terms of the 5.75% Note Indenture, the 5.75% Convertible Notes are secured by a second-priority lien on all of the assets of the same Guarantors listed in the DB Credit Agreement. Subject to the terms of an Intercreditor Agreement governing the relationship between the lenders under the DB Credit Agreement and the holders of the 5.75% Convertible Notes, in the event of a default under our DB Credit Agreement, the lenders under the DB Credit Agreement generally would be entitled to seize the collateral, including assets which are necessary to operate our business. In addition, default under one debt instrument relating to our existing indebtedness could in turn permit lenders or holders under other debt instruments to declare borrowings outstanding under those instruments to be due and payable pursuant to cross-default and cross-acceleration clauses. Moreover, upon the occurrence of an event of default relating to our indebtedness, any commitments to extend further credit to us could be terminated.. Accordingly, the occurrence of a default under any debt instrument, unless cured or waived, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may not be able to maintain our current credit rating and our access to capital markets may be limited as a result.. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed and updated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies and are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position, and other factors viewed by the credit rating agencies as relevant to our industry and the economic outlook in general. Our corporate credit rating was recently downgraded by Standard and Poor's to SD.  Our credit rating can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any future financing we may obtain. There is no guarantee our credit ratings will not decrease or remain the same. If rating agencies make adverse changes to our credit ratings, it could adversely impact our ability to access the debt markets, our cost of funds, and other terms for new debt issuances.. 19. RISKS RELATED TO NEW OUR 5.75% CONVERTIBLE NOTES. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to pay cash upon conversion of our 5.75% Convertible Notes or in connection with a Conversion Make-Whole Payment (as defined in the 5.75% Notes Indenture) or an interest payment or to repurchase the notes upon a Fundamental Change (as defined in the 5.75% Notes Indenture), and our debt may limit our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the 5.75% Convertible Notes.. Holders of the 5.75% Convertible Notes have the right to convert their 5.75% Convertible Notes at any time and the right to require us to repurchase their notes upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. However, we are not obligated to make any payments in cash in lieu of Shares until April 15, 2019, and our ability to make such cash payments may be further restricted by the terms of our credit facilities (see the risk factor immediately following for further details).  In addition, upon conversion of any 5.75% Convertible Notes or in connection with a Conversion Make-Whole Payment or an interest payment, unless we elect solely to deliver Shares to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), which we may be precluded from doing as a result of the Aggregate Share Cap (as defined in the 5.75% Notes Indenture), we will be required to pay to the holders of a note cash as part (or all) of the conversion consideration as described in Section 4.02(b) of the 5.75% Notes Indenture. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of 5.75% Convertible Notes surrendered therefor or being converted. Pursuant to the 5.75% Notes Indenture, we have agreed to use our commercially reasonable efforts (and to seek shareholder approval up to three times prior to April 2019) to obtain the requisite stockholder approvals to effect a reverse stock split or issue Shares in excess of the Aggregate Share Cap. We can provide no assurance, however, that we will obtain such stockholder approvals within a specific timeframe or at all. Until such time as we obtain stockholder approval to effect a reverse stock split or to issue more Shares than permitted under the Aggregate Share Cap, our ability to settle conversions in Shares instead of cash will be limited. In addition, in order to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the 5.75% Convertible Notes, we may have to raise funds through additional debt or equity financing. Our ability to meet our obligations or to raise such financing will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing market conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Further, we may not be able to raise such additional financing within the period required to satisfy our obligation to make timely payment upon any conversion or in connection with a Conversion Make-Whole Payment, an interest payment or a repurchase obligation. In addition, the terms of our existing senior secured credit facility limits our ability to make certain cash payments under the 5.75% Notes Indenture, however, so long as no default exists under our senior secured credit facility, we are permitted to make our regularly scheduled interest payments in cash.  Moreover, the terms of any future debt may also prohibit us from making these cash payments or otherwise restrict our ability to make such payments and/or may restrict our ability to raise any such financing. In particular, the terms of the DB Credit Agreement include a series of covenants and restrictions that restricts our ability to incur debt and to sell assets, to pay cash for such conversion payments and to make restricted payments and certain prepayments. In addition, the terms of our Senior Secured Notes are subject to a series of covenants and restrictions that may restrict the amount of royalties received from licenses related to collateral pledged to secure our obligations thereunder, or proceeds from the sale of such collateral. Such covenants and restrictions limit our ability to make payments in cash under certain circumstances, including payments to the 5.75% Convertible Notes holders upon conversion or repurchase. Our failure to repurchase notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the 5.75% Notes Indenture or to pay cash payable upon conversion or maturity of the notes as required by the 5.75% Notes Indenture would constitute a default under the 5.75% Notes Indenture and, as a result: (i) subject to the terms of the Intercreditor Agreement, our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; (ii) the lenders under the DB Credit Agreement could terminate their commitments to lend us money and foreclose against the collateral pledged to secure our obligations; (iii) we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation; and (iv) the acceleration of these obligations would also trigger potential cross-defaults under the DB Credit Agreement and the Senior Secured Notes. In addition, a default under the 5.75% Notes Indenture or the Fundamental Change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our other outstanding indebtedness.. The conversion of the 5.75% Convertible Notes may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We may be required to convert the 5.75% Convertible Notes for cash under certain circumstances, which would require us to take certain actions such as requesting a waiver under the DB Credit Agreement. A failure to obtain such waiver may result in an event of default or cross default under the agreements governing our existing indebtedness, which could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Holders of 5.75% Convertible Notes will be entitled to convert the notes at any time until the close of business on the business day preceding the maturity date of the notes. If one or more holders elect to convert their 5.75% Convertible Notes on or after April 15, 2019, unless we elect and are able at such time to satisfy our conversion obligation solely by delivering Shares (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional Share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity.. 20. Under the 5.75% Notes Indenture, on or after the earlier of (i) April 15, 2019, (ii) the effective date of (x) any reverse stock split or (y) any amendment to our charter to increase the authorized shares of common stock, in each case to ensure that we would have a sufficient amount of shares reserved for issuance to satisfy our conversion obligations under the 5.75% Notes Indenture, or (iii) the commencement of any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or similar proceeding with respect to our business, then we are required to pay cash for any portion of the 5.75% Convertible Notes surrendered for conversion and for which shares of our common stock were unable to be delivered pursuant to any physical or combination settlement, both for the relevant conversion and any applicable make-whole payments.  However, under the DB Credit Agreement, as amended, we are prohibited from making any cash payment in excess of $1,000,000 in the aggregate in respect of the 5.75% Convertible Notes.. We may be required to take actions such as requesting a waiver from the lenders under the DB Credit Agreement, and failure to obtain such waiver may result in an event of default or cross default under the agreements governing our existing indebtedness. As a result, the holders of such indebtedness could exercise their rights as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. In addition, even if a waiver is obtained, we may not have enough cash to furnish to the holders of the 5.75% Convertible Notes pursuant to this required cash payment, and we may be required to take actions such as requesting additional waivers from our holders of existing indebtedness, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of the existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. Failure to seek such waivers or other remedies may result in an event of default or cross default under the agreements governing our existing indebtedness, and the holders of such indebtedness could exercise their rights as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies can be implemented on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. Holders of 5.75% Convertible Notes will not be entitled to any rights with respect to our common stock, but they will be subject to all changes made with respect to them to the extent our conversion obligation includes Shares.. Holders of 5.75% Convertible Notes will not be entitled to any rights with respect to our common stock (including, without limitation, voting rights and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on our common stock) prior to the conversion date relating to such notes (if we have elected to settle the relevant conversion by delivering solely Shares (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional Share)) or the last trading day of the relevant Observation Period (if we elect to pay and deliver, as the case may be, a combination of cash and Shares in respect of the relevant conversion), but holders of 5.75% Convertible Notes will be subject to all changes affecting our common stock. For example, if an amendment is proposed to our charter or bylaws requiring stockholder approval and the record date for determining the stockholders of record entitled to vote on the amendment occurs prior to the conversion date related to a holder's conversion of its 5.75% Convertible Notes (if we have elected to settle the relevant conversion by delivering solely Shares (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional Share)) or the last trading day of the relevant Observation Period (if we elect to pay and deliver, as the case may be, a combination of cash and Shares in respect of the relevant conversion), such holder will not be entitled to vote on the amendment, although such holder will nevertheless be subject to any changes affecting our common stock.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK. We have previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and during the course of preparing our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If our remediation of this material weakness is not effective, we may be unable to report our financial condition or results of operations accurately or on a timely basis and investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected.. As previously disclosed, we and our auditors have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting for prior periods. Following the identification of the material weaknesses for prior periods, management implemented a remediation plan for such material weaknesses.  Such material weaknesses cannot be considered completely addressed until the applicable additional controls operate for a sufficient period of time and management has concluded, through testing, that these controls are operating effectively.  Further, management concluded that certain of our disclosure controls and procedures, including management review controls related to our statement of cash flows, our intangible asset impairment testing, our calculation of long term incentive program compensation expense, and the financial reporting for the modification of debt were not effective in timely alerting them to material information required to be included in our periodic SEC filings and ensuring that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time period specified in the SEC's rules and forms.. 21. We are continuing to implement additional review procedures and adopt additional control procedures to remediate the material weaknesses identified as of December 31, 2017.  There can be no assurance that the internal controls we implement will be effective or that in the future we will not suffer from additional ineffective disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls over financial reporting, which would further impair our ability to provide reliable and timely financial reports. We have implemented, and are implementing, additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls to satisfy our reporting requirements, but we must implement further measures. Moreover, because of the inherent limitations of any control system, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis, or at all.  If we are unable to remediate effectively these material weaknesses, we may be unable to report our financial condition or financial results accurately or report them within the timeframes required by the SEC, and our business may be further harmed.  Historical restated financial statements and failures in internal controls may also cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting process and the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock, subject us to regulatory investigations and penalties, and adversely impact our business and financial condition.. The market price of our common stock, which has significantly declined in the past year, has been, and may continue to be, volatile, which could reduce the market price of our common stock.. The market price of our common stock has significantly declined in the past year.  Furthermore, the publicly traded shares of our common stock have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility could further reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could change significantly over short periods of time in response to actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results, announcements by us, our licensees or our respective competitors, factors affecting our licensees' markets generally and/or changes in national or regional economic conditions, making it more difficult for shares of our common stock to be sold at a favorable price or at all. The market price of our common stock could also be reduced by general market price declines or market volatility in the future or future declines or volatility in the prices of stocks for companies in the trademark licensing business or companies in the industries in which our licensees compete.  In addition, any future conversions of the 5.75% Convertible Notes would dilute the holdings of our then existing stockholders, including any remaining holders of convertible notes that receive shares of our common stock upon conversion of their notes, and could reduce the market price of our common stock.. Future issuances of our common stock may cause the prevailing market price of our shares to decrease.. We have issued a substantial number of shares of common stock that are eligible for resale under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Act, and that may become freely tradable.  We may, in the future, issue additional shares of our common stock.  We are required under the 5.75% Notes Indenture to seek to obtain the necessary stockholder approval to effect a reverse stock split or increase the number of authorized but unissued shares of our common stock in an amount or manner such that we would have a sufficient amount of shares reserved for issuance to satisfy our conversion obligations under the 5.75% Notes Indenture upon conversion of the 5.75% Convertible Notes solely in shares of our common stock.  Upon conversion of our 5.75% Convertible Notes, we may elect to satisfy our conversion obligations solely in shares of our common stock, which would result in an increase in the outstanding number of shares of our common stock that, subject to certain limitations, would be freely tradable. We have also already registered a substantial number of shares of common stock that are issuable upon the exercise of options and warrants and have registered for resale a substantial number of restricted shares of common stock issued in connection with our acquisitions. If the holders of 5.75% Convertible Notes and our options and warrants choose to exercise their respective conversion and purchase rights, as applicable, and sell the underlying shares of common stock in the public market, or if holders of currently restricted shares of our common stock choose to sell such shares in the public market under Rule 144 or otherwise, the prevailing market price for our common stock may decline. The sale of shares issued upon the exercise of our derivative securities or other issuances of our common stock could also further dilute the holdings of our then existing stockholders, including holders of  convertible notes that receive shares of our common stock upon conversion of their notes. In addition, future issuances of shares of our common stock could impair our ability to raise capital by offering equity securities.. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the short term.. An investor should not rely on an investment in our common stock to provide dividend income in the short term, as we have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not plan to pay any in the foreseeable future. Instead, we plan to retain any earnings to maintain and expand our existing licensing operations, further develop our trademarks and finance the acquisition of additional trademarks. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment.. 22. Future issuances of equity or convertible notes to raise additional needed capital may result in significant dilution to our stockholders.. In order to raise additional needed capital, the Company may issue shares of its common stock or shares of preferred stock or debt convertible into shares of its common stock or preferred stock. There can be no assurance that such issuances will be at current market rates or on terms favorable to the Company and its existing stockholders. Any raising of capital involving the issuance of equity is expected to result in a significant dilution to existing stockholders. The terms of any debt securities issued could also impose significant restrictions on our operations. Broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance, and may adversely impact our ability to raise additional funds. Similarly, if our common stock is delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market tier of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, herein referred to as NASDAQ, it may limit our ability to raise additional funds.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS. The failure of our licensees to adequately produce, market, import and sell products bearing our brand names in their license categories, continue their operations, renew their license agreements or pay their obligations under their license agreements could result in a decline in our results of operations.. Our revenue is almost entirely dependent on royalty payments made to us under our license agreements. Although the license agreements for our brands usually require the advance payment to us of a portion of the license fees and, in most cases, provide for guaranteed minimum royalty payments to us, the failure of our licensees to satisfy their obligations under these agreements, or their inability to operate successfully or at all, could result in their breach and/or the early termination of such agreements, their non-renewal of such agreements or our decision to amend such agreements to reduce the guaranteed minimums or sales royalties due thereunder, thereby eliminating some or all of that stream of revenue. There can be no assurances that we will not lose the licensees under our license agreements due to their failure to exercise the option to renew or extend the term of those agreements or the cessation of their business operations (as a result of their financial difficulties or otherwise) without equivalent options for replacement. Any of such failures could reduce the anticipated revenue stream to be generated by the license agreements. In addition, the failure of our licensees to meet their production, manufacturing and distribution requirements, or to be able to continue to import goods (including, without limitation, as a result of changes to laws or trade regulations, trade embargoes, labor strikes or unrest), could cause a decline in their sales and potentially decrease the amount of royalty payments (over and above the guaranteed minimums) due to us.  Further, the failure of our licensees and/or their third party manufacturers, which we do not control, to adhere to local laws, industry standards and practices generally accepted in the United States in areas of worker safety, worker rights of association, social compliance, and general health and welfare, could result in accidents and practices that cause disruptions or delays in production and/or substantial harm to the reputation of our brands, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  A weak economy or softness in certain sectors including apparel, consumer products, retail and entertainment could exacerbate this risk. This, in turn, could decrease our potential revenues and cash flows.. A substantial portion of our licensing revenue is concentrated with a limited number of licensees, such that the loss of any of such licensees or their renewal on terms less favorable than today, could slow our growth plans, decrease our revenue and impair our cash flows.. Our licenses with Walmart, Target, Kohls, Kmart/Sears and Global Brands Group represent, each in the aggregate, our five largest licensees during the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2017, representing approximately 16%, 9%, 9%, 8% and 8%, respectively, of our total revenue for such period.. Because we are dependent on these licensees for a significant portion of our licensing revenue, if any of them were to have financial difficulties affecting their ability to make payments, cease operations, or if any of these licensees decides not to renew or extend any existing agreement with us, or to significantly reduce its sales of licensed products under any of the agreement(s), our revenue and cash flows could be reduced substantially.. As previously disclosed, the Company was notified of the following non-renewals of license agreements: (i) the OP and Starter DTR license agreements with Walmart, (ii) the Mossimo DTR license agreement with Target, (iii) the Danskin Now DTR license agreement with Walmart, (iv) the Royal Velvet license agreement with J.C. Penney's and (v) the Material Girl DTR license agreement with Macy's.  While the Company is actively working to place these brands with other licensees, the failure to enter into replacement license agreements for these brands on economic terms similar to such DTR arrangements may adversely affect our future revenues and cash flows.. 23. In addition, we may face increasing competition in the future for direct-to-retail licenses as other companies owning established brands may decide to enter into licensing arrangements with retailers similar to those we currently have in place. Furthermore, our current or potential direct-to-retail licensees may decide to more prominently promote and market competing brands, or develop or purchase other or establish their own brands, rather than continue their licensing arrangements with us. In addition, increased competition could result in lower sales of products offered by our direct-to-retail licensees under our brands. If our competition for retail licenses increases, it may take us longer to procure additional retail licenses.. We have a material amount of goodwill and other intangible assets, including our trademarks, recorded on our balance sheet. As a result of changes in market conditions and declines in the estimated fair value of these assets, we may, in the future, be required to further write down a portion of this goodwill and other intangible assets and such write-down would, as applicable, either decrease our net income or increase our net loss.. As of December 31, 2017, goodwill represented approximately $63.9 million, or approximately 7% of the Company's total consolidated assets, and trademarks and other intangible assets represented approximately $465.7 million, or approximately 54% of our total consolidated assets. Under current U.S. GAAP accounting standards, goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, including most of our trademarks, are no longer amortized, but instead are subject to impairment evaluation based on related estimated fair values, with such testing to be done at least annually.. As previously disclosed, in November 2017, as of a result of, among other things, the recent decisions by certain licensees not to renew existing Mossimo and Danskin Now license agreements and expected diminished revenues in 2018 across several of the Company's other brands, the Company accelerated the timing of its annual impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets to be completed in connection with the preparation of its financial statements for the quarter ended September 30, 2017.  As a result of such testing, the Company recorded a total non-cash asset impairment charge, related to the write-off of certain of our trademarks and goodwill, in the amount of approximately $625.5 million.  Additionally, in the fourth quarter of FY 2017, as a result of the recent notification of JC Penney not renewing the existing Royal Velvet license agreement, the Company recorded an additional non-cash asset impairment charge, related to the write-off of the Royal Velvet trademark, in the amount of approximately $4.1 million.  As a result, total trademark and goodwill impairment recorded for FY 2017 is in the amount of approximately $629.6 million.. As previously disclosed, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, the Company recognized a non-cash impairment charge, related to the write-off of certain of our trademarks and goodwill, in the amount of approximately $438.1 million.  A significant portion of the trademark impairment was indirectly driven by the Company's continuing decreased market capitalization relative to its net book value.. There can be no assurance that any future downturn in the business of any of the Company's segments, or a continued decrease in our market capitalization, will not result in a further write-down of goodwill or trademarks, which would either decrease the Company's net income or increase the Company's net loss, which may or may not have a material impact to the Company's consolidated statement of operations.. As a result of the intense competition within our licensees' markets and the strength of some of their competitors, we and our licensees may not be able to continue to compete successfully.. Many of our trademark licenses are for products in the apparel, fashion accessories, footwear, beauty and fragrance, home products and décor industries in which our licensees face intense competition, including from our other brands and licensees, as well as from third party brands and licensees. In general, competitive factors include quality, price, style, name recognition and service. In addition, various fads and the limited availability of shelf space could affect competition for our licensees' products. Many of our licensees' competitors have greater financial, importation, distribution, marketing and other resources than our licensees and have achieved significant name recognition for their brand names. Our licensees may be unable to compete successfully in the markets for their products, and we may not be able to continue to compete successfully with respect to our licensing arrangements.. Our business is dependent on continued market acceptance of our brands and the products of our licensees bearing these brands.. Although most of our licensees guarantee minimum net sales and minimum royalties to us, a failure of our brands or of products bearing our brands to achieve or maintain market acceptance could cause a reduction of our licensing revenue and could further cause existing licensees not to renew their agreements. Such failure could also cause the devaluation of our trademarks, which are our primary IP assets, making it more difficult for us to renew our current licenses upon their expiration or enter into new or additional licenses for our trademarks. In addition, if such devaluation of our trademarks were to occur, a material impairment in the carrying value of one or more of our trademarks could also occur and be charged as an expense to our operating results.. 24. The industries in which we compete, including the apparel industry, are subject to rapidly evolving trends and competition. In addition, consumer tastes change rapidly. The licensees under our licensing agreements may not be able to anticipate, gauge or respond to such changes in a timely manner. Failure of our licensees to anticipate, identify and capitalize on evolving trends could result in declining sales of our brands and devaluation of our trademarks. Continued and substantial marketing efforts, which may, from time to time, also include our expenditure of significant additional funds to keep pace with changing consumer demands, are required to maintain market acceptance of the licensees' products and to create market acceptance of new products and categories of products bearing our trademarks; however, these expenditures may not result in either increased market acceptance of, or licenses for, our trademarks or increased market acceptance, or sales, of our licensees' products. Furthermore, while we believe that we currently maintain sufficient control over the products our licensees' produce under our brand names through the provision of trend direction and our right to preview and approve a majority of such products, including their presentation and packaging, we do not actually design or manufacture products bearing our marks, and therefore, have more limited control over such products' quality and design than a traditional product manufacturer might have.. Our success is largely dependent on the continued service of our key personnel.. As previously disclosed, we have experienced significant turnover in our senior management team. While we are not aware of any further pending changes in key management positions, we cannot provide assurance that we will effectively manage our current management transition or other future management changes we may experience. An inability to effectively manage these changes may impact our ability to retain our senior executives and other key employees, which could harm our operations.  Additional turnover at the senior management level may create instability within the Company and our employees may terminate their employment, which could further impede our ability to maintain day to day operations. Such instability could also impede our ability to fully implement our business plan and growth strategy, which would harm our business and prospects.. Although we expect the U.S. federal tax reform to have a favorable impact on our overall U.S federal tax liability, the effects of the tax reform are uncertain and include limitations on interest deductions and taxes on cash held outside of the U.S. which may adversely affect our results.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\"), was signed into law making significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code'). The Tax Act reduced the U.S. statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and made other changes that could have a favorable impact on our overall U.S. federal tax liability in a given period. However, the Tax Act also included a number of provisions that limit or eliminate various deductions which could adversely affect our U.S. federal income tax position. For example, the Tax Act limits our ability to deduct interest expenses to the extent that such expenses exceed 30% of our earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.. In addition, under certain circumstances, the Tax Act may require us to pay taxes on cash held abroad, even if the cash is not ultimately repatriated to the U.S. As of December 31, 2017, approximately $12.7 million, or 10%, of the Company's total cash (including restricted cash) was held in foreign subsidiaries. Although we do not anticipate being required to pay taxes on such foreign cash under the Tax Act because the Company did not generate sufficient earnings and profits to trigger such tax liability, it is not possible for us to determine with certainty whether we will be subject to any such taxes in the future due to the complexity of the income tax laws and the effects of the Tax Act and other factors.. We continue to examine the impact the Tax Act may have on our business, which is uncertain and may be adverse. There can be no assurance that changes in tax laws or regulations, both within the U.S. and the other jurisdictions in which we operate, will not materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. See Note 14 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.. Our ability to use our tax attributes including net operating loss carry forwards (\"NOLs\") to offset future taxable income may be limited as a result of an ownership change.. At December 31, 2017, the Company had approximately $20.4 million in federal NOLs which will expire in fiscal year 2035 if unused. The Company also has foreign tax credit carryforwards of approximately $5.3 million which will expire in 2023 and 2024.  These NOLs are subject to various limitations under Section 382 of the Code. If we experience any \"ownership change\" (as defined in Section 382 of the Code) our ability to utilize our tax attributes including U.S. Federal NOLs could be limited. An ownership change may be triggered, among other things, by the conversion of our 5.75% Convertible Notes by large holders who obtain more than 5% of our common stock. We also have approximately $22.8 million apportioned state and local NOLs that expire in 2034 and 2035 if not used.  Similar results could apply to these NOLs because the states in which we operate generally follow Section 382.. 25. Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results.. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or policies, or interpretations thereof. In addition, our current global tax structure could be negatively impacted by various factors, including changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions in which we earn income or changes in, or in the interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in jurisdictions in which we operate. An increase in our effective tax rate could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position.. We also are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities both domestically (including state and local entities) and abroad. We regularly assess the likelihood of recovering the amount of deferred tax assets recorded on the balance sheet and the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from examinations by various taxing authorities in order to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We cannot guarantee that the outcomes of these evaluations and continuous examinations will not harm our reported operating results and financial conditions.. We are subject to additional risks associated with our international licensees and joint ventures.. We market and license our brands outside the United States and many of our licensees are located, and joint ventures operate, outside the United States. As a key component of our business strategy, we intend to expand our international sales, including, without limitation, through joint ventures. We and our joint ventures face numerous risks in doing business outside the United States, including: (i) unusual or burdensome foreign laws or regulatory requirements or unexpected changes to those laws or requirements; (ii) tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargoes, sanctions and other trade barriers; (iii) competition from foreign companies; (iv) longer accounts receivable collection cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; (v) less effective and less predictable protection and enforcement of our IP; (vi) changes in the political or economic condition of a specific country or region (including, without limitation, as a result of political unrest), particularly in emerging markets; (vii) fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the U.S. dollar and the cost of currency exchange; (viii) potentially adverse tax consequences; and (ix) cultural differences in the conduct of business. Any one or more of such factors could cause our future international sales, or distributions from our international joint ventures, to decline or could cause us to fail to execute on our business strategy involving international expansion. In addition, our business practices in international markets are subject to the requirements of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and all other applicable anti-bribery laws, any violation of which could subject us to significant fines, criminal sanctions and other penalties.. A portion of our revenue and net income are generated outside of the United States, by certain of our licensees and our joint ventures, in countries that may have volatile currencies or other risks.. A portion of our revenue is attributable to activities in territories and countries outside of the United States by certain of our joint ventures and our licensees. The fact that some of our revenue and certain business operations of our joint ventures and certain licensees are conducted outside of the United States exposes them to several additional risks, including, but not limited to social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or to laws and policies governing foreign trade and investment in the territories and countries where our joint ventures or certain licensees currently have operations or will in the future operate. Any of these factors could have a negative impact on the business and operations of our joint ventures and certain of our licensees operations, which could also adversely impact our results of operations. Increase of revenue generated in foreign markets may also increase our exposure to risks related to foreign currencies, such as fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may also adversely impact our International Joint Ventures and licensees. In the past, we and our joint ventures have attempted to have contracts that relate to activities outside of the United States denominated in U.S. currency, however, we do not know to the extent that we will be able to continue this as we increase our contracts with foreign licensees. In certain instances we have entered into foreign currency hedges to mitigate our risk related to fluctuations in our contracts denominated in foreign currencies; however, we cannot predict the effect that future exchange rate fluctuations will have on our operating results.. Our licensees are subject to risks and uncertainties of foreign manufacturing and importation of goods, and the price, availability and quality of raw materials, along with labor unrest at shipping/receiving ports, could interrupt their operations or increase their operating costs, thereby affecting their ability to deliver goods to the market, reduce or delay their sales and decrease our potential royalty revenue.. Substantially all of the products sold by our licensees are manufactured overseas and there are substantial risks associated with foreign manufacturing and importation, including changes in laws and policies relating to quotas and current and proposed international trade agreements, the payment of tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, labor unrest that could hinder or delay shipments, effects on the ability to import goods or the cost associated with such importation and international political, regulatory and economic developments. Further, our licensees may experience fluctuations in the price,. 26. availability and quality of fabrics and raw materials used by them in their manufactured or purchased finished goods. Any of these risks could increase our licensees' operating costs. Our licensees also import finished products and assume all risk of loss and damage with respect to these goods once they are shipped by their suppliers. If these goods are destroyed or damaged during shipment, the revenue of our licensees, and thus our royalty revenue over and above the guaranteed minimums, could be reduced as a result of our licensees' inability to deliver or their delay in delivering their products.. We participate in international joint ventures which we do not typically legally control.. We participate in a number of International Joint Ventures, some of which we do not control. As we continue to expand our business internationally and execute our strategy for growth, we may enter into additional International Joint Ventures in the future. Joint ventures pose an inherent risk. Regardless of whether we hold a majority interest in or directly control the management of our International Joint Ventures, our partners may have business goals and interests that are not aligned with ours, exercise their rights in a manner of which we do not approve, be unable to fulfill their obligations under the joint venture agreements, or exploit our trademarks in a manner that harms the overall quality and image of our brands. In addition, an International Joint Venture partner may simply be unable to identify licensees for our brands. In these cases, the termination of an arrangement with an International Joint Venture partner or an International Joint Venture partners' failure to build the business could result in the delay of our expansion in a particular market or markets, and will not allow us to achieve the worldwide growth that we seek on our current timeline. We may not be able to identify another suitable partner for an International Joint Venture in such market or markets, which could result in further delay, and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. A sale of our trademarks or other IP related to our brands in a jurisdiction could have a negative effect on the brands in other jurisdictions or worldwide.. From time to time, we may sell IP related to our brands to a third party in a domestic or foreign territory, where we do not intend to continue exploiting the brand. In these instances, we may enter into co-existence agreements with any such third party, the terms of which require that the sold IP be exploited in a manner befitting the brand image and prestige. Though we try to limit our potential exposure related to potential misuse of the IP, we cannot ensure that third parties will comply with their contractual requirements or that they will use the IP in an appropriate manner. Any misuse by a third party of IP related to our brands could lead to a negative perception of our brands by current and potential licensees, International Joint Venture partners or consumers, and could adversely affect our ability to develop the brands and meet our strategic goals. This, in turn, could decrease our potential revenue.. If a manager termination event under the management agreement were to occur we could lose control over the management of the IP assets owned by the ABS Co-Issuers and there can be no assurance that a successor manager would properly manage the assets.. We serve as the manager under a management agreement with the ABS Co-Issuers. Our primary responsibility under this agreement is to perform or otherwise assist each ABS Co-Issuer in performing its duties and obligations, including certain licensing, IP and operational functions. Pursuant to the management agreement, if we perform or fail to perform certain acts (herein referred to as Manager Termination Events) all of our rights, powers, duties, obligations and responsibilities under the management agreement can be terminated.. There can be no assurance that if we are terminated pursuant to the terms of the management agreement a successor manager can be identified and retained that is capable of managing all or a portion of the IP assets, or that can perform its obligations with the same level of experience and expertise as we do. A failure to continue managing our IP assets as they are currently managed could have a material adverse effect on our business and could result in a decline in our results of operations.. Changes in our business segments could cause impairment charges in the future.. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit or segment level and is required to be tested for impairment annually, and more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or segment is less than its carrying amount.  Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company changed its reporting segments to reflect a separate International segment as a result of the manner in which the Company manages its business.  Previously, international data was reflected in each of our Men's, Women's and Home segments.  In the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company recognized a non-cash impairment charge of approximately $438.1 million related to the write-off of certain of our trademarks and goodwill, which impairment charge is partly attributable to such change in segment reporting.  The change in the Company's reporting segments necessitated its reallocation of the value of certain trademarks and goodwill across the new segments, resulting in such non-cash impairment charge.  While the Company does not anticipate any future changes in its reporting segments, we cannot ensure that future changes in the manner in which we operate our business may not necessitate a reallocation of our business segments.  We also cannot ensure that any change in the Company's segments will not result in impairment charges, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. 27. Our failure to protect our proprietary rights could compromise our competitive position and result in cancellation, loss of rights or diminution in value of our brands.. We monitor on an ongoing basis unauthorized filings of our trademarks and imitations thereof, and rely primarily upon a combination of U.S., Canadian and other international federal, state and local laws, as well as contractual restrictions to protect and enforce our IP rights. We believe that such measures afford only limited protection and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that the actions taken by us to establish, protect and enforce our trademarks and other proprietary rights will prevent infringement of our IP rights by others, or prevent the loss of licensing revenue or other damages caused therefrom.. For instance, despite our efforts to protect and enforce our IP rights, unauthorized parties may misappropriate or attempt to copy aspects of our IP, which could harm the reputation of our brands, decrease their value and/or cause a decline in our licensees' sales and thus our revenue. Further, we and our licensees may not be able to detect infringement of our IP rights quickly or at all, and at times we or our licensees may not be successful combating counterfeit, infringing or knockoff products, thereby damaging our competitive position. In addition, we depend upon the laws of the countries where our licensees' products are sold to protect our IP. IP rights may be unavailable or limited in some countries because standards of register ability vary internationally. Consequently, in certain foreign jurisdictions, we have elected or may elect not to apply for trademark registrations. If we fail to timely file a trademark application in any such country, we may be precluded from obtaining a trademark registration in such country at a later date. Failure to adequately pursue and enforce our trademark rights could damage our brands, enable others to compete with our brands and impair our ability to compete effectively.. In addition, our license agreements provide our licensees with rights to our trademarks and contain provisions requiring our licensees to comply with certain standards to be monitored by us. Our failure to adequately monitor our licensees' compliance with the license agreements or take appropriate corrective action when necessary may subject our IP assets to cancellation, loss of rights or diminution in value.. Further, the rights to our brands in our International Joint Venture territories are controlled primarily through our joint ventures in these regions. While we believe that our partnerships in these areas will enable us to better protect our trademarks in the countries covered by the ventures, we do not control all of our joint venture companies and thus most decisions relating to the use and enforcement of the marks in these countries will be subject to the approval of our local partners.. We also own the exclusive right to use various domain names containing or relating to our brands. There can be no assurances that we will be able to prevent third parties from acquiring and maintaining domain names that infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks. Failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our brands which could cause a decline in our licensees' sales and the related revenue and in turn decrease the amount of royalty payments (over and above the guaranteed minimums) due to us.. Third-party claims regarding our intellectual property assets could result in our licensees being unable to continue using our trademarks, which could adversely impact our revenue or result in a judgment or monetary damages being levied against us or our licensees.. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement or violation of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. In the future, we may be required to assert infringement claims against third parties or third parties may assert infringement claims against us and/or our licensees. To the extent that any of our intellectual property assets is deemed to violate the proprietary rights of others in any litigation or proceeding or as a result of any claim, then we and our licensees may be prevented from using it, which could cause a breach or termination of certain license agreements. If our licensees are prevented from using our trademarks, this could adversely impact the revenue of our licensees with respect to those IP assets, and thus the royalty payments over and above the guaranteed minimums could be reduced as a result of the licensees' inability to continue using our trademarks. Litigation could also result in a judgment or monetary damages being levied against us and our licensees. Further, if we, our International Joint Ventures or our licensees are alleged to have infringed the IP rights of another party, any resulting litigation could be costly and could damage the Company's reputation. There can be no assurance that we, our International Joint Ventures or our licensees would prevail in any litigation relating to our IP.. 28. We may not be able to establish or maintain our trademark rights and registrations, which could impair our ability to perform our obligations under our license agreements, which could cause a decline in our licensees' sales and potentially decrease the amount of royalty payments (over and above the guaranteed minimums) due to us.. While we intend to take reasonable steps to protect our trademark rights, it may not be possible to obtain or maintain legal protection and registrations for all of our trademarks for all forms of goods and services based on certain facts, such as the timing of our or our predecessors' entrance into the market or the fact that a third party previously adopted a similar mark for use in connection with a similar set of goods or services. As a result, it may be difficult or not possible for our trademarks to be registered or even protected so as to prohibit third party use in a particular manner. Moreover, third parties may challenge or seek to oppose or cancel existing trademark applications or registrations, and we cannot guarantee we will succeed against such challenges. Any failure to secure and maintain rights and registrations could impair our ability to perform our obligations under the license agreements, enter new product or service categories or could affect our ability to enter into new license agreements or renew existing license agreements, both of which could cause a decline in our licensees' sales and potentially decrease the amount of royalty payments (over and above the guaranteed minimums) due to us.. If we are unable to identify and successfully acquire additional brands and trademarks, our growth may be limited, and, even if additional trademarks are acquired, we may not realize anticipated benefits due to integration or licensing difficulties.. A key component of our growth strategy is the acquisition of additional brands and trademarks. Historically, we have been involved in numerous acquisitions of varying sizes. However, we have been unable to complete a significant acquisition of brand-related IP assets since fiscal 2015. We continue to explore new acquisitions. We generally compete with traditional apparel and consumer brand companies, other brand management companies and private equity groups for brand acquisitions. However, as more of our competitors continue to pursue our brand management model, competition for specific acquisition targets may become more acute, acquisitions may become more expensive and suitable acquisition candidates could become more difficult to find. In addition, even if we successfully acquire additional trademarks or the rights to use additional trademarks, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability levels that justify our investment in, or realize planned benefits with respect to, those additional brands.. Although we seek to temper our acquisition risks by following acquisition guidelines relating to the existing strength of the brand, its diversification benefits to us, its potential licensing scale and credit worthiness of the licensee base, acquisitions, whether they be of additional IP assets or of the companies that own them, entail numerous risks, any of which could detrimentally affect our results of operations and/or the value of our equity. These risks include, among others:. •  unanticipated costs associated with the target acquisition;. •  appropriately valuing the target acquisition and analyzing its marketability;. •  negative effects on reported results of operations from acquisition related charges and amortization of acquired intangibles;. •  diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;. •  the challenges of maintaining focus on, and continuing to execute, core strategies and business plans as our brand and license portfolio grows and becomes more diversified;. •  adverse effects on existing licensing and joint venture relationships;. •  potential difficulties associated with the retention of key employees, and the assimilation of any other employees, who may be retained by us in connection with or as a result of our acquisitions; and. •  risks of entering new domestic and international markets (whether it be with respect to new licensed product categories or new licensed product distribution channels) or markets in which we have limited prior experience.. When we acquire IP assets or the companies that own them, our due diligence reviews are subject to inherent uncertainties and may not reveal all potential risks. Although we generally attempt to seek contractual protections through representations, warranties and indemnities, we cannot be sure that we will obtain such provisions in our acquisitions or that such provisions will fully protect us from all unknown, contingent or other liabilities or costs. Finally, claims against us relating to any acquisition may necessitate our seeking claims against the seller for which the seller may not, or may not be able to, indemnify us or that may exceed the scope, duration or amount of the seller's indemnification obligations.. 29. Acquiring additional trademarks could also have a significant effect on our financial position and could cause substantial fluctuations in our quarterly and yearly operating results. Acquisitions could result in the recording of significant goodwill and intangible assets on our financial statements, the amortization or impairment of which would reduce our reported earnings in subsequent years. No assurance can be given with respect to the timing, likelihood or financial or business effect of any possible transaction. As a result, there is no guarantee that our stockholders will achieve greater returns as a result of any future acquisitions we complete.. We are subject to local laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad.. We are subject to U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our business. Our International Joint Ventures are subject to similar regulations in the countries where they operate. While we actively identify and monitor our obligations and the applicability of all laws to ensure that we are compliant and our contractual arrangements with our International Joint Venture partners require them to do the same, our efforts to maintain compliance with local laws and regulations may require us to incur significant expenses, and our failure to comply with such laws may expose us to potential liability. In addition, our ability to operate or compete effectively, as well as our financial results, could be adversely affected by the introduction of new laws, policies or regulations; changes in the interpretation or application of existing laws, policies and regulations; or our failure to obtain required regulatory approvals.. We may be a party to litigation in the normal course of business, which could affect our financial position and liquidity.. From time to time, we may be made a party to litigation in the normal course of business. For example, as the owner of a trademark, we may be named as a defendant in a lawsuit relating to a product designed and manufactured by a licensee of that trademark. In most cases, our licensees under the existing license agreements are obligated to defend and indemnify us, as licensor, and our affiliates with respect to such litigation. In addition, while third parties could assert infringement claims involving our trademarks, we believe our trademarks are not subject to significant litigation risk because they are widely known and well-established trademarks, which have been consistently used by us and the previous owners. We also maintain insurance for certain risks, but it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all possible liabilities. Although historically the litigation involving us has not been material to our financial position or our liquidity, any litigation has an element of uncertainty and if any such litigation were to be adversely determined and/or a licensee were to fail to properly indemnify us and/or we did not have appropriate insurance coverage, such litigation could affect our financial position and liquidity.. We have been named in securities litigations, which could be expensive and could divert our management's attention.  There may be additional class action and/or derivative claims.. We have been named as defendants in three securities actions and two common law actions filed in the Southern District of New York (one of which is before the United States Bankruptcy Court), and five shareholder derivative claims have been filed on behalf of the Company, three which were filed in New York State Supreme Court and two of which were filed in the Southern District of New York, each as described in Note 10 to our Audited Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Annual Report. While we plan to vigorously defend the securities and common law actions and seek to dismiss the derivative claims, we may be unable to defend or settle these claims on favorable terms, and there can be no assurance that additional claims will not be made by other stockholders. The pending and any future securities claims or derivate suits could be costly and could harm our reputation and business. An adverse determination could materially and negatively affect the Company. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate or available for us to avoid or limit our exposure in the pending actions or in future claims and adequate insurance coverage may not be available in sufficient amounts or at a reasonable cost in the future. Additionally, securities and derivative claims may divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. Finally, the market price of our common stock may be volatile, and in the past companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities and/or derivative litigation.. 30. We were engaged in a comment letter process with the SEC Staff and undertook an internal review of our financial statements, which resulted in our Board, Audit Committee and current management restating certain of our historical financials. In addition, we have received a formal order of investigation from the SEC. Restatements of financial statements and results of the SEC's investigation has had and could continue to have a negative effect on our business and stock price.. As previously disclosed, the Company was engaged in a comment letter process with the staff (the \"Staff\") of the SEC relating to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. The Staff's comments related to (i) the accounting treatment for the formation of the Company's International Joint Ventures under United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (US GAAP) and whether such joint ventures should have been consolidated in our historical results and (ii) calculation of cost basis attributable to trademarks. As previously disclosed, on November 4, 2016, the Company received a letter from the Staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission  -  Division of Corporate Finance, formally communicating that the Staff has completed its ongoing review of the Company's Forms 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2013 through 2015.. As a result of the Staff comment letter process, as previously disclosed, we have restated our historical financial statements in respect of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2013 and 2014 which addresses the following accounting matters: (i) consolidate the financial statements of the Iconix Canada, Iconix Israel, Iconix Southeast Asia, Iconix MENA and LC Partners US joint ventures with the Company's financial statements, and eliminate the previously reported gains on sale which were recorded at the time these transactions were consummated (including subsequent June 2014 and September 2014 transactions with respect to Iconix Southeast Asia), (ii) record the recalculated cost basis of the trademarks contributed to certain joint ventures which are recorded under the equity method of accounting at the time of consummation of the transactions, (iii) record the recalculated cost basis of the Umbro brand in the territory of Korea (which closed in December 2013) and the e-commerce and U.S. catalog rights in respect of the Sharper Image brand (which closed in June 2014) to determine the amount of the gain that should have been recorded at the time of the sale, (iv) reclassify the presentation of its statement of operations to reflect gains on sales of trademarks (to joint ventures or third parties) as a separate line item above the Operating Income line, and not as revenue as historically reflected, (v) reclassify the Equity Earnings on Joint Ventures line to above the Operating Income line, from its previous location within the Other Expenses section.. In conjunction with the Company's consolidation of the joint ventures noted above, the Company also adjusted its historical financial statements to properly reflect the consideration from joint venture partners (\"the redemption value\") as redeemable non-controlling interest for the Iconix Southeast Asia, Iconix MENA and LC Partners US joint ventures as of the date of the formation of the joint venture.  For each period subsequent to the formation of the joint venture, the Company will accrete the change in redemption value up to the date that the joint venture partner has the right to redeem its respective put option.  Additionally, in accordance with the applicable accounting guidance, the notes receivable, net of discount, received from our joint venture partners as part of the consideration related to the formation of consolidated joint ventures will be netted against non-controlling interest or redeemable non-controlling interest, as applicable.. In addition, in November 2015 we completed restatements of our historical financial statements in respect of (i) the fourth quarter and annual results of 2013, (ii) the 2014 fiscal year and each quarterly period thereof, and (iii) the first and second quarters of 2015, to correct certain historical errors in accounting.. Additionally, during the preparation of the FY 2015 financial statements, the Company restated certain of its historical financial statements due to errors in accounting related to inadequate support for revenue recognition, the classification of contractually obligated expenses as selling expenses as opposed to netting such expenses with revenue and the inadequate estimation of accruals related to retail support for certain license agreements.   Further, the Company noted there were inadequate review controls over historical complex accounting transactions. As a result, the Company recorded adjustments to (i) reduce licensing revenue and remeasurement gains associated with the review of various historical accounting transactions and (ii) record a liability for a royalty credit earned by a specific licensee in accordance with its license agreement.. Our business may be harmed as a result of all such financial restatements noted above, including as a result of adverse publicity, litigation, SEC proceedings or exchange delisting. While we have taken measures to prevent future restatements, we cannot be certain that the measures we have taken as part of the restatement process will ensure that restatements will not occur in the future. These restatements may affect investor confidence in the accuracy of our financial disclosures and may raise reputational issues for our business.. The restatement process was resource-intensive, has involved a significant amount of attention from management, and has resulted in significant costs to the Company. Any future inquiries from the SEC or otherwise as a result of the restatement of our historical financial statements will, regardless of the outcome, likely consume a significant amount of our internal resources and result in additional legal and accounting costs. These fees and expenses, as well as the substantial time devoted by our current management to make such filings with the SEC, could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and financial condition.. 31. These restatements also may result in additional litigation. We may incur additional substantial defense costs regardless of the outcome of such litigation. Likewise, such events might cause a diversion of our current management's time and attention. If we do not prevail in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs.. The Company has and will continue to fully cooperate with the SEC's investigation.  However, there can be no guarantee as to the amount of internal and external resources we may need to devote to responding to any further requests we may receive from the SEC. In this regard, the legal and accounting fees and expenses we may incur, or the timeline for resolution or the ultimate outcome of the investigation.  In addition, if the SEC were to charge the Company with violations, we could potentially be subject to fines, penalties or other adverse consequences, and our business and financial condition could be adversely impacted.. While we audit our licensees from time to time in the ordinary course, we otherwise rely on the accuracy of our licensees' retail sales reports for reporting and collecting our revenues, and if these reports are untimely or incorrect, our revenue could be delayed or inaccurately reported.. Most of our revenue is generated from retailers that license our brands for manufacture and sale of products bearing our brands in their stores. Under our existing agreements, these licensees pay us licensing fees based in part on the retail value of products sold. We rely on our licensees to accurately report the retail sales in collecting our license fees, preparing our financial reports, projections, budgets, and directing our sales and marketing efforts. All of our license agreements permit us to audit our licensees. If any of our licensee reports understate the retail sales of products they sell, we may not collect and recognize revenue to which we are entitled, or may endure significant expense to obtain compliance.. A decline in general economic conditions or an increase in inflation resulting in a decrease in consumer-spending levels and an inability to access capital may adversely affect our business.. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions, including increasing inflation, and its corresponding impact on the levels of consumer spending which may affect our licensees' sales. It is difficult to predict future levels of consumer spending or inflation and any such predictions are inherently uncertain. The worldwide apparel industry is heavily influenced by general economic cycles. Purchases of goods offered under our brands tend to decline in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects, as disposable income typically declines. As a result, our operating results may be materially affected by trends in the United States or global economy.. A significant disruption in our computer systems, including from a malicious attack, and our inability to adequately maintain and update those systems, could adversely affect our operations.. We rely extensively on our computer systems to manage our operations and to communicate with our licensees, International Joint Venture partners and other third parties, and to collect, summarize and analyze results. We depend on continued and unimpeded access to the internet to use our computer systems. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer hackings, cyber-attacks, computer viruses or other malicious activities, security breaches and catastrophic events. If our systems are damaged, threatened, attacked or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial repair or replacement costs, experience data loss and impediments to our ability to manage our internal control system, a loss in confidence by our partners, negative publicity and lost revenue, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations.. Provisions in our charter and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, discourage a takeover and adversely affect our stockholders.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation could have the effect of making more difficult, delaying or deterring unsolicited attempts by others to obtain control of our company, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, in one or more series, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of our common stock, none of which is outstanding.. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could prevent us from engaging in a business combination with a 15% or greater stockholder for a period of three years from the date it acquired that status unless appropriate board or stockholder approvals are obtained.. 32. Use of social media may adversely impact our reputation and business.. We rely on social media, as one of our marketing strategies, to have a positive impact on both the value and reputation of our brands. Our brands could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives or if our public image or reputation, or that of any of our licensees or business partners, were to be tarnished by negative publicity. Use of social media platforms and weblogs by third parties provides access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested parties. The opportunity for dissemination of information on these platforms, including negative or inaccurate information about Iconix or its brands, is virtually limitless and the effect is immediate. Any of these events could harm our reputation, business and financial results. The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction.  It could also result in decreases in sales by our licensees, which in turn could negatively impact our revenues and cash flows.. Recent and ongoing developments relating to the United Kingdom's referendum vote in favor of leaving the European Union could adversely affect us or our licenses.. The United Kingdom held a referendum on June 23, 2016 in which voters approved the UK's withdrawal from the European Union, commonly known as \"Brexit.\"  As a result, difficult negotiations have been ongoing to determine the terms of the United Kingdom exit from the European Union as well as its relationship with the European Union going forward.  The economic effects of Brexit have been and are expected to continue to be far-reaching.  Although less than 10% of our licensing revenue is generated in the United Kingdom, Brexit and the perceptions as to its impact may adversely affect business activity and economic conditions in Europe and globally and could continue to contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets.  We currently hold equity interests in Iconix Europe, our London-based joint venture, as well as Iconix MENA LTD and Diamond Icon, LLC, our joint ventures which were established under the laws of the United Kingdom.  In addition, we have license agreements in place with licensees across many of our brands in the United Kingdom, maintain a wholly-owned subsidiary established under the laws of the United Kingdom; and have employees, offices and showroom space in the United Kingdom related to our Umbro and Lee Cooper brands.  The impact of Brexit on the foregoing aspects of our business are unknown at this time.  Brexit could have the effect of disrupting the free movement of goods, services and people between the United Kingdom and the European Union and negatively impact our business and that of our licensees.  The full effects of Brexit are uncertain and will depend on any agreements the United Kingdom may make to retain access to European Union markets.  Brexit also could lead to uncertainty with respect to the United Kingdom legal and regulatory framework and the enforcement of our legal and intellectual property rights.  In addition, as a result of Brexit, other European countries may seek to conduct referenda with respect to their continuing membership with the European Union, creating greater uncertainly in the region.  Given these possibilities and others we may not anticipate, as well as the lack of comparable precedent, the full extent to which our business, licensees, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by Brexit is uncertain."
