[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In evaluating an investment in our common stock, investors should consider carefully, among other things, the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report and our other reports and registration statements filed with the SEC.  Any of the following risks, as well as additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.. 11. Risks Related to our Strategic Transactions. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the HIS acquisition, which could adversely impact our business and our operating results.. The HIS acquisition that closed on February 3, 2017 was a significant transaction for us and the HIS business was one in which we did not operate directly prior to the closing of the transaction. The success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to realize our anticipated benefits, opportunities and synergies from combining the businesses of our company and the HIS business. We can provide no assurance that the anticipated benefits of the HIS transaction will be fully realized in the time frame anticipated or at all. We have limited prior history of integrating acquired companies or businesses into our operations, much less one of this size and complexity. Integrating the operations of the HIS business with that of our own is a complex, costly and time-consuming process and the nature of a carve out acquisition makes it inherently more difficult to assume operations on closing day as well as to integrate activities, as certain systems, processes and people may not all have transferred with the acquired business to support such activities. In connection with the consummation of the acquisition, we entered into a number of arrangements with Pfizer, including a transitional services agreement, pursuant to which Pfizer agreed to provide us with certain significant and essential human resource, commercial, regulatory, finance, research and development and operational services on an interim basis, for a duration generally not to exceed eighteen (18) months from the date of the closing of the transaction, with respect to our operation of the HIS business.  The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, would restrict the realization of the full expected benefits. The failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined businesses and could adversely affect the results of operations of the combined businesses. Potential difficulties that may be encountered in the integration process include the following:. <U+25E6> challenges in preserving important strategic customer and other third-party relationships of both businesses;. <U+25E6> the diversion of management's attention to integration matters;. <U+25E6> challenges in maintaining employee morale and retaining or attracting key employees;. <U+25E6> potential incompatibility of corporate cultures;. <U+25E6> costs, delays and other difficulties (i) consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and information systems, (ii) implementing common systems and procedures including, in particular, our internal controls over financial reporting, and (iii) implementing the transitional services, manufacturing and other arrangements with Pfizer entered into at the closing of the HIS transaction; and. <U+25E6> coordinating and integrating a geographically dispersed organization, including operations in jurisdictions we did not operate in prior to the HIS transaction.. Any one or all of these factors may increase operating costs or lower anticipated financial performance. Additionally, any failure by Pfizer to deliver the services to be provided under our arrangements with Pfizer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Achieving the anticipated benefits and the potential benefits underlying our reasons for the HIS business acquisition will depend on successful integration of the businesses. Because of the significance of the HIS business acquisition to us, our failure to successfully integrate the HIS business with that of our own could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The HIS business acquisition has resulted in organizational change and significant growth to our business. If we fail to effectively manage this growth and change to our business in a manner that preserves our reputation with customers and the key aspects of our corporate culture, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.. The HIS business has resulted in significant growth in our personnel and operations, adding approximately 4,000 employees to our headcount, bringing our total headcount as of December 31, 2017 to approximately 6,800 employees. In addition, the acquisition process and other events prior to our acquisition put a significant strain on certain HIS business customer relationships. We will continue to incur significant expenditures and the allocation of management time to assimilate the HIS business employees in a manner that preserves the key aspects of our corporate culture, including a focus on strong customer satisfaction, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts. If we do not effectively integrate, train and manage our combined employee base and maintain strong customer relationships, our corporate culture could be undermined, the quality of our products and customer service could suffer, and our reputation could be harmed, each of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The actual impact of the HIS acquisition on our financial results may be worse than the assumptions we have used.. We have made certain assumptions relating to the impact on our financial results of the HIS acquisition. These assumptions relate to numerous matters, including the acquisition costs, including transaction and integration costs, and other. 12. financial and strategic risks of the acquisition.   If one or more of these assumptions are incorrect, it could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results, and the perceived benefits from the acquisition may not be realized.. If we are unable to effectively manage our internal growth or growth through acquisitions of companies, assets or products, our financial performance may be adversely affected.. We intend to continue to expand our marketing and distribution capability, which may include external expansion through acquisitions both in the U.S. and foreign markets. We may also consider expanding our product offerings through acquisitions of companies or product lines. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire, develop or profitably manage additional companies or operations or successfully integrate such companies or operations into our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other problems.  We recently acquired the HIS business, which includes IV pumps, solutions, and devices in order to create a leading pure-play infusion therapy company, but we have significant integration efforts to achieve the anticipated benefits. See \"-We may not realize the anticipated benefits of the HIS transaction, which could adversely impact our business and our operating results.\". We have additional production facilities outside the U.S. to reduce labor costs. The expansion of our marketing, distribution and product offerings both internally and through acquisitions or by contract may place substantial burdens on our management resources and financial controls. Decentralization of assembly and manufacturing could place further burdens on management to manage those operations and maintain efficiencies and quality control.. The increasing burdens on our management resources and financial controls resulting from internal growth and acquisitions could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, acquisitions may involve a number of special risks in addition to the difficulty of integrating cultures and operations and the diversion of management's attention, including adverse short-term effects on our reported operating results, dependence on retention, hiring and training of key personnel, risks associated with unanticipated problems or legal liabilities and amortization of acquired intangible assets, some or all of which could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial performance.. Business and Operating Risks. We are dependent on single and limited source suppliers, which subjects our business and results of operations to risks of supplier business interruptions.. Although we have risk mitigation plans in place with key suppliers, we have materials (such as resins) that are critical to our ability to manufacture our products, the supply of which is currently from a sole supplier.  We cannot be certain that our current suppliers will continue to provide us with the quantities of materials that we require or satisfy our anticipated specifications and quality requirements. Any supply interruption in limited or sole sourced raw materials could materially harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply, if any, could be identified and qualified. Although we believe there are other suppliers of these raw materials, we may be unable to find a sufficient alternative supply channel in a reasonable time or on commercially reasonable terms. Additionally, we are subject to FDA regulations, which could further delay our ability to obtain a qualified alternative supplier.  Any performance failure on the part of our suppliers could delay the development and manufacture of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.  Due to the highly competitive nature of the healthcare industry and the cost controls of our customers and third party payors, we may be unable to pass along cost increases for any key components or raw materials increases through higher prices to our customers.  If the cost of key components or raw materials increases and we are unable fully to recover those increased costs through price increases or offset these increases through other cost reductions, we could experience an adverse effect on our financial condition.. Damage to any of our manufacturing facilities could impair our ability to produce our products.. A severe weather event, other natural or man-made disaster, or any other significant disruption affecting one of our manufacturing facilities could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have a single manufacturing facility for our Clave products located in Salt Lake City, Utah.  Our Salt Lake City facility also produces other components on which our manufacturing operations in Mexico and Costa Rica rely.. Damage to any of our facilities could render us unable to manufacture our products or require us to reduce the output of products at the damaged facility.. 13. Expansion of our manufacturing facilities may result in inefficiencies that could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results.. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we experienced significant production inefficiencies following a large increase in production volume in Mexico and the transfer of San Clemente production to Salt Lake City.  In 2007, we expanded our Mexico facility and, anticipating further increases in volume at that facility, increased the workforce.  An additional expansion of our Mexico facility was completed in January 2011.  Turnover among new employees was unusually high in Mexico, and the additional time spent in classroom training and on the job training could create production inefficiencies in Mexico in the future.  The addition of new products will require additional molding in Salt Lake City and manual assembly work in Mexico. Expansions of our production capacity will require significant management attention to avoid inefficiencies of the type experienced in 2006, and the effect of any inefficiencies can be particularly expensive in Salt Lake City because of the high fixed costs in this highly automated facility.. We may be unable to realize any benefit from our cost reduction and restructuring efforts and our profitability may be hurt or our business otherwise might be adversely affected.. We have engaged in restructuring activities in the past and may engage in other restructuring activities in the future. These types of cost reduction and restructuring activities are complex. If we do not successfully manage our current restructuring activities, or any other restructuring activities that we may take in the future, any expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted. In addition, the costs associated with implementing restructuring activities might exceed expectations, which could result in additional future charges.. Market and Other External Risks. Because we are dependent on Clave products for a significant portion of our sales, any decline in sales of Clave products could result in a significant reduction in our sales and profits.. We depend heavily on sales of Clave products, which have decreased in previous years. Most of our sales of Clave products are in the U.S. Future sales increases for Clave products may depend on increases in sales of infusion systems, expansion in the international markets or acquisition of new customers in the U.S. We cannot give any assurance that sales of Clave products will increase or that we can sustain current profit margins on Clave products indefinitely.. We believe that the success of the Clave has motivated, and will continue to motivate, competitors to develop one piece needleless connectors.  If other manufacturers successfully develop and market effective products that are competitive with Clave products, Clave sales could decline, we could lose market share, and we could encounter sustained price and profit margin erosion.. If we are unable to compete successfully on the basis of product innovation, quality, convenience, price and rapid delivery with larger companies that have substantially greater resources and larger distribution networks than us, we may be unable to maintain market share, in which case our sales may not grow and our profitability may be adversely affected.. The consumable medical device segment of the health care industry and in particular the infusion products market is intensely competitive and is experiencing both horizontal and vertical consolidation. We believe that our ability to compete depends upon continued product innovation, the quality, convenience and reliability of our products, access to distribution channels, patent protection and pricing. The ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to differentiate our products based on safety features, product quality, cost effectiveness, ease of use and convenience, as well as our ability to perceive and respond to changing customer needs. We encounter significant competition in our markets both from large established medical device manufacturers and from smaller companies. Many of these companies have introduced competitive products with features not provided by the conventional products and methods they are intended to replace. Most of our current and prospective competitors have economic and other resources substantially greater than ours and are well established in the healthcare industry. Several large, established competitors offer broad product lines and have been successful in obtaining full-line contracts with a significant number of hospitals and group purchasing organizations to supply all of their infusion product requirements. Due to the highly competitive nature of the group purchasing organizations (\"GPOs\") or integrated delivery networks (\"IDNs\") contracting processes, we may not be able to obtain or maintain contract positions with major GPOs and IDNs across our products portfolio.  Furthermore, the increasing leverage of organizing buy-in groups may reduce market prices for our products thereby affecting our profitability.  While having a contract with a GPO or IDN can facilitate sales to members of that GPO or IDN, it is no assurance that sales volume of those products will be maintained. The members of such groups may choose to purchase from our competitors due to the price or quality offered by such competitors, which could result in a decline in our sales and profitability.  In addition, distributors of our products may begin to negotiate terms of sale more. 14. aggressively in an effort to increase their profitability. Failure to negotiate distribution arrangements having advantageous pricing or other terms of sale could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we fail to implement distribution arrangements successfully, it could cause us to lose market share to our competitors.  Moreover, there is no assurance that our competitors will not substantially increase resources devoted to the development, manufacture and marketing of products competitive with our products. The successful implementation of such a strategy by one or more of our competitors could materially and adversely affect us.. If we do not successfully develop and commercialize enhanced or new products that remain competitive with new products or alternative technologies developed by others, we could lose revenue opportunities and customers, and our ability to grow our business would be impaired.. The medical device industry is characterized by rapid product development and technological advances, which places our products at risk of obsolescence. Our long-term success and profit margins depend upon the development and successful commercialization of new products, new or improved technologies and additional applications of our technology. The research and development process is time-consuming and costly, and may not result in products or applications that we can successfully commercialize.  We can give no assurance that any such new products will be successful or that they will be accepted in the marketplace.. Product development requires substantial investment that may be difficult for us to fund and may be challenging to. recover through commercial product sales.. Innovations generally require a substantial investment in product development before we can determine their commercial viability, and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund these innovations. Even if we succeed in creating new product candidates from these innovations, those innovations still may fail to result in commercially successful products. The success of new product offerings for device products depends on several factors, including our ability to anticipate and meet customers'/patients' needs, obtain timely regulatory approvals or clearances, and manufacture quality products in an economic and timely manner. Even if we are able to develop successfully new products or enhancements, we may not produce sales exceeding the costs of development, and we may not avoid infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Further, those new or enhanced products may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. Moreover, innovations may not be successful due to difficulties encountered in achieving positive clinical outcomes, meeting safety, efficacy or other regulatory requirements of government. agencies, or obtaining favorable pricing on those products. Finally, innovations may not be accepted quickly in the. marketplace because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice and uncertainty over third-party. reimbursement.. If demand for our products were to decline significantly, we might not be able to recover the cost of our expensive automated molding and assembly equipment and tooling, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our production tooling is relatively expensive, with each \"module,\" which consists of an automated assembly machine and the molds and molding machines that mold the components, costing several million dollars. Most of the modules are for the Clave product family.  If the demand for these products changes significantly, which could happen with the loss of a customer or a change in product mix, it may be necessary for us to recognize an impairment charge for the value of the production tooling because its cost may not be recovered through production of saleable product, which could adversely affect our financial condition.. We have been and will be ordering production molds and equipment for our new products.  We expect to order semi-automated or fully automated assembly machines for other new products in 2018.  If we do not achieve significant sales of these new products, it might be necessary for us to recognize an impairment charge for the value of the production tooling because its costs may not be recovered through production of saleable product, which could adversely affect our financial condition.. 15. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions that affect our customers' ability to buy our products and could affect our relationships with our suppliers.. Disruptions in financial markets worldwide and other worldwide macro-economic challenges may cause our customers and suppliers to experience cash flow concerns.  If job losses and the resulting loss of health insurance and personal savings cause individuals to forgo or postpone treatment, the resulting decreased hospital use could affect the demand for our products.  As a result, customers may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and suppliers may increase their prices, reduce their output or change terms of sales. Additionally, if customers' or suppliers' operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us and suppliers may impose different payment terms. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products or any demands by suppliers for different payment terms may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow.. Continuing pressures to reduce healthcare costs and inadequate coverage and reimbursement may adversely affect our prices. If we cannot reduce manufacturing costs of existing and new products, our sales may not grow and our profitability may decline.. Increasing awareness of healthcare costs, public interest in healthcare reform and continuing pressure from Medicare, Medicaid, group purchasing organizations and other payers, both domestic and international, to reduce costs in the healthcare industry, as well as increasing competition from other protective products, could make it more difficult for us to sell our products at current prices. Our products are purchased by hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers that typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs, private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services and products provided to their patients.  The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement for healthcare services and products from third-party payors is critical because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Implementation of further legislative or administrative reforms in the reimbursement system in the U.S. and abroad or adverse decisions relating to coverage or reimbursement could have an impact on acceptance of and demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for them.  In the event that the market will not accept current prices for our products, our sales and profits could be adversely affected. We believe that our ability to increase our market share and operate profitably in the long term may depend in part on our ability to reduce manufacturing costs on a per unit basis through high volume production using highly automated molding and assembly systems. If we are unable to reduce unit manufacturing costs, we may be unable to increase our market share for Clave products or may lose market share to alternative products, including competitors' products. Similarly, if we cannot reduce unit manufacturing costs of new products as production volumes increase, we may not be able to sell new products profitably or gain any meaningful market share. Any of these results would adversely affect our future results of operations.. Failure to protect our information systems against security breaches, service interruptions, or misappropriation of data could disrupt operations, compromise sensitive data, and expose us to liability, possibly causing our business and reputation to suffer.. We depend heavily on information technology infrastructure and systems to achieve our business objectives.  Any incident that impairs or compromises this infrastructure, including security breaches, malicious attacks or more general service interruptions, could impede our ability to process orders, manufacture and ship product in a timely manner, protect sensitive data and otherwise carry on business in the normal course.  Any such events could result in the loss of customers, revenue, or both, and could require us to incur significant expense to remediate, including legal claims or proceedings.  Further, as cyber security related incidents continue to evolve, and regulatory focus on these issues continues to expand, additional investment in protective measures, and vulnerability remediation, may be required.. Expiring patents may affect our future sales.. Most of our products are covered by patents that, if valid, give us a degree of market exclusivity during the term of the patent. Our patents will expire at various dates through 2032. Upon patent expiration, our competitors may introduce products using the same technology. As a result of this possible increase in competition, we may need to reduce our prices to maintain sales of our products, which would make them less profitable. If we fail to develop and successfully launch new products prior to the expiration of patents for our existing products, our sales and profits with respect to those products could decline significantly. We may not be able to develop and successfully launch more advanced replacement products before these and other patents expire.. If we cannot obtain additional custom tooling and equipment on a timely basis to enable us to meet demand for our products, we might be unable to increase our sales or might lose customers, in which case our sales could decline.. 16. We expanded our manufacturing capacity substantially in recent years, and we expect that continued expansion may be necessary.  Molds and automated assembly machines generally have a long lead-time with vendors, often nine months or longer.  Inability to secure such tooling in a timely manner, or unexpected increases in production demands, could cause us to be unable to meet customer orders.  Such inability could cause customers to seek alternatives to our products.. Increases in the cost of petroleum-based and natural gas-based products or loss of supply could have an adverse effect on our profitability.. Most of the materials used in our products are resins, plastics and other material that depend upon oil or natural gas as their raw material. Crude oil markets are affected by political uncertainty in the Middle East, and there is no assurance that crude oil supplies will not be interrupted in the future.  Any such interruption could have an adverse effect on our ability to produce, or the cost to produce, our products.  Also, crude oil and natural gas prices have been volatile in recent years. Our suppliers have historically passed some of their cost increases on to us, and if such prices are sustained or increase further, our suppliers may pass further cost increases on to us. In addition to the effect on resin prices, transportation costs have increased because of the effect of higher crude oil prices, and we believe most of these costs have been passed on to us.  Our ability to recover these increased costs may depend upon our ability to raise prices on our products.  In the past, we have rarely raised prices and it is uncertain that we would be able to raise them to recover higher prices from our suppliers.  Our inability to raise prices in those circumstances, or to otherwise recover these costs, could have an adverse effect on our profitability.. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of key personnel.. We are dependent upon the management and leadership of our executive team, as well as other members of our senior management team.  If one or more of these individuals were unable or unwilling to continue in his or her present position, our business would be disrupted and we might not be able to find replacements on a timely basis or with the same level of skill and experience, which could have an adverse effect on our business.  We do not have \"key person\" life insurance policies on any of our employees.. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile due to many factors.. The market for small and mid-market capitalization companies can be highly volatile, and we have experienced significant volatility in the price of our common stock in the past. From January 2015 through December 2017, our trading price ranged from a high of $225.38 per share to a low of $79.44 per share.  We believe that factors such as quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in financial results, differences between stock analysts' expectations and actual quarterly and annual results, new product introductions by us or our competitors, acquisitions or divestitures, changing regulatory environments, litigation, changes in healthcare reimbursement policies, sales or the perception in the market of possible sales of common stock by insiders, market rumors and substantial product orders could contribute to the volatility in the price of our common stock. General economic trends unrelated to our performance such as recessionary cycles and changing interest rates may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock; the recent macroeconomic downturn could depress our stock price for some time.. Most of our common stock is held by, or included in accounts managed by, institutional investors or managers. Several of those institutions own or manage a significant percentage of our outstanding shares, with the ten largest interests accounting for approximately 40% of our outstanding shares at the end of 2017.  If one or more of the institutions or if our other large stockholders should decide to reduce or eliminate their position in our common stock, it could cause a significant decrease in the price of our common stock.. Legal, Compliance, and Regulatory Risks. Healthcare regulation and reform measures could adversely affect our revenue and financial condition.. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and in recent years, there have been numerous changes in initiatives, laws and regulations.  The federal government and all states and jurisdictions in which we currently operate regulate various aspects of our business.  Changes in law or new interpretation of existing laws can have a material effect on our permissible activities and the relative costs associated with doing business. The laws and regulations that may affect our ability to operate  include, without limitation, anti-kickback laws that prohibit payments or other remuneration that could be considered to induce hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order, of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs as well as false claims laws that prohibit filing of false or improper claims for payment.  Federal laws apply to federal and state healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and several states have. 17. similar laws that may apply more broadly to all payors.  Although we would not submit claims directly to government payors, manufacturers can be held liable under the federal and state false claim act if they are deemed to \"cause\" the submission of false or fraudulent claims by, for example, providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, price reporting, or promoting a product off-label. In addition, our activities relating to the reporting of wholesaler or estimated retail prices for our products, the reporting of prices used to calculate Medicaid rebate information and other information affecting federal, state, and third-party reimbursement for our products, and the sale and marketing of our products, are subject to scrutiny under this federal and state false claims laws.  As a manufacturer of U.S. FDA-approved products  reimbursable by federal healthcare programs, we are subject to the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires us to annually report certain payments and other transfers of value we make to U.S.-licensed physicians or U.S. teaching hospitals and any ownership or investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members.  These laws may affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians and other potential purchasers of our products.  These laws are broadly written and are subject to evolving interpretations, and it is often difficult to determine how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances.  In addition, any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental laws or regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, imprisonment, or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results.. Our profitability and operations are subject to risks relating to changes in government and private reimbursement programs and policies and changes in legal requirements in the U.S. and in the world.  There have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system that could affect our future revenues and profitability in the U.S. and abroad.  Federal and state lawmakers regularly propose and, at times, enact legislation that results in significant changes to the healthcare system, some of which are intended to contain or reduce the costs of medical products and services. For example, in 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (\"Affordable Care Act\") were signed into law introducing comprehensive health insurance and healthcare reforms in the U.S.  Among the provisions of such legislation that may have an adverse impact on us is a 2.3% excise tax imposed on medical device manufacturers for the sale of certain medical devices to U.S. customers.  The excise tax, which became effective January 1, 2013, resulted in additional expense of $2.0 million in 2015 recorded in Selling, General and Administrative expenses.  Congress has temporarily suspended this medical device excise tax for two years commencing January 2018.  Unless Congress changes the current law, we expect this tax to resume beginning in 2020.. We expect that the new Presidential Administration and U.S. Congress will seek to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the Affordable Care Act. The House and Senate have recently passed a budget resolution that authorizes congressional committees to draft legislation to repeal all or portions of the Affordable Care Act and permits such legislation to pass with a majority vote in the Senate.  President Trump has also recently issued an executive order in which he stated that it is his Administration's policy to seek the prompt repeal of the Affordable Care Act and directed executive departments and federal agencies to waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay the implementation of burdensome provisions of the Affordable Care Act to the maximum extent permitted by law. There is still uncertainty with respect to the impact President Trump's administration and the U.S. Congress may have, if any, and any changes will likely take time to unfold, and could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for healthcare items and services covered by plans that were authorized by the Affordable Care Act. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the U.S. since the Affordable Care Act was enacted that reduced payments to Medicare providers.  Recently, there has also been heightened governmental scrutiny over the manner in which drug manufacturers set prices for their marketed products, which has resulted in several Congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to product pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drug products.  The ultimate implementation of any healthcare reform legislation and any new laws and regulations, and its impact on us, is impossible to predict. Any significant reforms made to the healthcare system in the U.S., or in other jurisdictions, may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we fail to defend and enforce our patents, if our products are found to infringe patents owned by others or if the cost of patent litigation becomes excessive or as our key patents expire.. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, business methods, software and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property.  Our efforts to protect our intellectual proprietary and proprietary rights may not be sufficient.  Further, there is no assurance that patents pending will issue or that the protection from patents which have issued or may issue in the future will be broad enough to prevent competitors from introducing similar. 18. devices, that such patents, if challenged, will be upheld by the courts or that we will be able to prove infringement and damages in litigation.. We generally have multiple patents covering various features of a product, and as each patent expires, the protection afforded by that patent is no longer available to us, even though protection of features that are covered by other unexpired patents may continue to be available to us.  The loss of patent protection on certain features of our products may make it possible for others to manufacture and sell products with features similar to ours, which could adversely affect our business.  In addition, our ability to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights may be limited in certain countries outside of the U.S., which could make it easier for competitors to obtain market position in such countries by utilizing technologies that are similar to those developed by us.. If others choose to manufacture and sell products similar to or substantially the same as our products, it could have a material adverse effect on our business through loss of unit volume or price erosion, or both, and could adversely affect our ability to secure new business.. In the past, we have faced patent infringement claims related to the Clave, the CLC2000 and Tego. We believe these claims had no merit, and all have been settled or dismissed.  We may also face claims in the future. Any adverse determination on these claims related to our products, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. From time to time we become aware of newly issued patents on medical devices, which we review to evaluate any infringement risk. We are aware of a number of patents for infusion connection systems that have been issued to others. While we believe these patents will not affect our ability to market our products, there is no assurance that these or other issued or pending patents might not interfere with our right or ability to manufacture and sell our products.. There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry. Patent infringement litigation, which may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us or to defend ourselves against claimed infringement of the rights of others, can be expensive and may involve a substantial commitment of our resources which may divert resources from other uses. Adverse determinations in litigation or settlements could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, could require us to seek licenses from third parties, could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or could fail to prevent competitors from manufacturing products similar to ours. Any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business.. Our ability to market our products in the U.S. and other countries may be adversely affected if our products fail to comply with the applicable standards of the FDA and regulatory agencies in other countries.. Government regulation is a significant factor in the development, marketing and manufacturing of our products. For example, our device products are subject to clearance by the U.S. FDA under a number of statutes including the Food Drug and Cosmetics Act (\"FDC Act\").  In the U.S., before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, new claim for, or significant modification to, an existing product, we must first receive either clearance under Section 510(k) of the FDC Act or approval of a premarket approval, or PMA, application from the FDA, unless an exemption applies.  Under the 510(k) process, the manufacturer must submit to the FDA a premarket notification, demonstrating that the device is \"substantially equivalent,\" as defined in the statute, to a legally marketed predicate device.  To be \"substantially equivalent,\" the proposed device must have the same intended use as the predicate device, and either have the same technological characteristics as the predicate device or have different technological characteristics and not raise different questions of safety or effectiveness than the predicate device. If the manufacturer is unable to demonstrate substantial equivalence to FDA's satisfaction, or if there is no available predicate device, then the manufacturer may be required to seek approval through the PMA application process, which is generally more costly and time consuming than the 510(k) process.  Through the PMA application process, the applicant must submit data and information demonstrating reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use to the FDA's satisfaction.  Accordingly, a PMA application typically includes, but is not limited to, extensive technical information regarding device design and development, pre-clinical and clinical trial data, manufacturing information, labeling and financial disclosure information for the clinical investigators in device studies.. Each of our current products has qualified, and we anticipate that any new products we are likely to market will qualify for clearance under the FDA's expedited pre-market notification procedure pursuant to Section 510(k) of the FDC Act. However, certain of our new products may require a longer time for clearance than we have experienced in the past and there can be no assurance that a PMA application will not be required.  Further, there is no assurance that other new products developed by us or any manufacturers that we might acquire will qualify for expedited clearance rather than a more time consuming pre-market approval procedure or that, in any case, they will receive clearance from the FDA.  FDA regulatory. 19. processes are time consuming and expensive. Uncertainties as to the time required to obtain FDA clearances or approvals could adversely affect the timing and expense of new product introductions.. The regulations to which we are subject are complex and have become more stringent over time. Regulatory changes could result in restrictions on our ability to continue or expand our operations, higher than anticipated costs, or lower than anticipated sales. Even after we have obtained the proper regulatory clearance or approval to market a product, we have ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations and applicable foreign laws and regulations. The FDA, state and foreign regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA, state or foreign regulatory authorities which may include any of the following sanctions:. <U+25E6> untitled letters or warning letters;. <U+25E6> fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties;. <U+25E6>  recalls, termination of distribution, administrative detention, or seizure of our products;. <U+25E6>  customer notifications or repair, replacement or refunds;. <U+25E6> operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production;. <U+25E6> delays in or refusal to grant our requests for future 510(k) clearances, PMA approvals or foreign regulatory approvals of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to existing products;. <U+25E6> withdrawals or suspensions of current 510(k) clearances or PMAs or foreign regulatory approvals, resulting in prohibitions on sales of our products;. <U+25E6> FDA refusal to issue certificates to foreign governments needed to export products for sale in other countries; and. <U+25E6> criminal prosecution.. The FDA's and other regulatory authorities' policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad.  For example, certain policies of the Trump Administration may impact our business and industry.  Namely, the Trump Administration has taken several executive actions, including the issuance of a number of Executive Orders, that could impose significant burdens on, or otherwise materially delay, FDA's ability to engage in routine regulatory and oversight activities such as implementing statutes through rulemaking, issuance of guidance, and review and approval of marketing applications.  It is difficult to predict how these requirement will be implemented, and the extent to which they will impact the FDA's ability to exercise its regulatory authority.  If these executive actions impose constraints on FDA's ability to engage in oversight and implementation activities in the normal course, our business may be negatively impacted.. If we or our component manufacturers fail to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation or Good Manufacturing Practice regulations, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted, and our product sales and operating results could suffer.. We and some of our component manufacturers are required to comply with regulatory requirements known as the FDA's Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, inspection, complaint handling, recordkeeping, management review, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our device products.  The FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMPs apply to the manufacture of medical device components and finished medical devices. The FDA audits compliance with these regulatory requirements through periodic announced and unannounced inspections of manufacturing and other facilities.  The FDA may conduct inspections or audits at any time, and we and some of our component suppliers are subject to such inspections.  Although we believe our manufacturing facilities and those of our critical component suppliers are in compliance with the QSR requirements, and with applicable cGMPs for our products, we cannot provide assurance that any future inspection will not result in adverse findings. If our manufacturing facilities or those of any of our component suppliers are found to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations, or we or our suppliers have significant noncompliance issues or fail to timely and adequately respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues, or if any corrective action plan that we or our suppliers propose in response to observed deficiencies is not sufficient, the FDA could take enforcement action, including any of the following sanctions:. <U+25E6> untitled letters or warning letters;. <U+25E6> fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties;. <U+25E6> customer notifications or repair, replacement, refunds, recall, detention or seizure of our products;. <U+25E6> operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production;. <U+25E6>  refusing or delaying our requests for clearance or approval of new products or modified products;. <U+25E6> withdrawing clearances or approvals that have already been granted;. 20. <U+25E6> refusal to grant export approval for our products; or. <U+25E6> criminal prosecution.. Any of these sanctions could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and operating results.. To market our products in the European Community (\"EC\"), we must conform to additional requirements of the EC and demonstrate conformance to established quality standards and applicable directives.  As a manufacturer that designs, manufactures and markets its own devices, we must comply with the quality management standards of ISO 13485 (2012). Those quality standards are similar to the FDA's Quality System Regulations.  Manufacturers of medical devices must also be in conformance with EC Directives such as Council Directive 93/42/EEC (\"Medical Device Directive\") and their applicable annexes.  Those regulations assure that medical devices are both safe and effective and meet all applicable established standards prior to being marketed in the EC. Once a manufacturer and its devices are in conformance with the Medical Device Directive, the \"CE\" Mark maybe affixed to its devices. The CE Mark gives devices an unobstructed entry to all the member countries of the EC.  There is no assurance that we will continue to meet the requirements for distribution of our products in Europe.. Distribution of our products in other countries may be subject to regulation in those countries, and there is no assurance that we will obtain necessary approvals in countries in which we want to introduce our products.. Product liability claims could be costly to defend and could expose us to loss.. The use of our products exposes us to an inherent risk of product liability.  Patients, healthcare workers or healthcare providers who claim that our products have resulted in injury could initiate product liability litigation seeking large damage awards against us.  Costs of the defense of such litigation, even if successful, could be substantial.  We maintain insurance against product liability and defense costs in the amount of $10,000,000 per occurrence.  There is no assurance that we will successfully defend claims, if any, arising with respect to products or that the insurance we carry will be sufficient.  A successful claim against us in excess of insurance coverage could materially and adversely affect us. Furthermore, there is no assurance that product liability insurance will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms.. We may incur costs or losses relating to other litigation.. We may from time to time be involved in litigation.  Legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable, and the outcome can result in judgments that affect how we operate our business, or we may enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages that exceed our insurance coverage, if any is available.  Any such proceedings, regardless of merits, may result in substantial costs, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns and additional restrictions on our business, which could disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. We may be required to implement a costly product recall.. In the event that any of our products proves to be defective, we can voluntarily recall, or the FDA or other regulatory agencies could require us to redesign or implement a recall of, any of our products.  We believe that any recall could result in significant costs to us and significant adverse publicity, which could harm our ability to market our products in the future. Though it may not be possible to quantify the economic impact of a recall, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We generally offer a limited warranty for product returns which are due to defects in quality and workmanship.  We attempt to estimate our potential liability for future product returns and establish reserves on our financial statements in amounts that we believe will be sufficient to address our warranty obligations; however, our actual liability for product returns may significantly exceed the amount of our reserves.  If we underestimate our potential liability for future product returns, or if unanticipated events result in returns that exceed our historical experience, our financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected.. Geographic Risks. We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the U.S.. We operate in a global market and global operations are subject to a number of risks.  Sales to customers outside of the U.S. made up approximately 25% of our revenue in 2017 and as our operations and sales located in Europe and other areas. 21. outside the U.S. increase, we may face new challenges and uncertainties, although we can give no assurance that such operations and sales will increase.   The risks associated with our operations outside the U.S. include:. <U+25E6> healthcare reform legislation;. <U+25E6> changes in medical reimbursement policies and programs;. <U+25E6> changes in non-U.S. government programs;. <U+25E6> multiple non-U.S. regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could restrict our ability to manufacture and sell our products;. <U+25E6> possible failure to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions;. <U+25E6> different local medical practices, product preferences and product requirements;. <U+25E6> possible failure to comply with trade protection and restriction measures and import or export licensing requirements;. <U+25E6> difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-U.S. operations;. <U+25E6> different labor regulations or work stoppages or strikes;. <U+25E6> changes in environmental, health and safety laws;. <U+25E6> potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws, including changes regarding taxation of income earned outside the U.S.;. <U+25E6> political instability and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts;. <U+25E6> economic instability, including the European financial crisis or other economic instability in other parts of the world and the impact on interest rates, inflation and the credit worthiness of our customers;. <U+25E6> uncertainties regarding judicial systems and procedures;. <U+25E6> minimal or diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries;. <U+25E6> imposition of government controls; and. <U+25E6> regulatory changes that may place our products at a disadvantage.. These risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations.. Any significant changes in U.S trade, tax or other policies that restrict imports or increase import tariffs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. A significant amount of our products are manufactured outside of the U.S. The new Presidential administration has called for substantial changes to U.S. trade and tax policies, which may include import restrictions or increased import tariffs. Restrictions on imports could prevent or make it difficult for us to obtain the components needed for new products which would affect our sales. Increased tariffs would require us to increase our prices which likely would decrease customer and consumer demand for our products. Other countries might retaliate through the imposition of their own restrictions and or increased tariffs which would affect our ability to export products and therefore adversely affect our sales. Any significant changes in current U.S. trade, tax or other policies could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations.. International sales pose additional risks related to competition with larger international companies and established local companies and our possibly higher cost structure.. We have undertaken an initiative to increase our international sales, and have distribution arrangements in all the principal countries in Western Europe, the Pacific Rim, Middle East, Latin America, Canada and South Africa. We plan to sell in most other areas of the world. We export most of our products sold internationally from the U.S. and Mexico. Our principal competitors in international markets consist of much larger companies as well as smaller companies already established in the countries into which we sell our products. Our cost structure is often higher than that of our competitors because of the relatively high cost of transporting product to some local markets as well as our competitors' lower local labor costs in some markets.. Our international sales are subject to higher credit risks than sales in the U.S.. Many of our distributors are small and may not be well capitalized. Payment terms are relatively long. The European hospitals tend to be significantly slower in payment which has resulted in an increase to our days sales outstanding from previous years.  Our prices to our international distributors, outside of Europe, for product shipped to the customers from the U.S., Costa Rica or Mexico are generally denominated in U.S. dollars, but their resale prices are set in their local currency. A decline in the value of the local currency in relation to the U.S. dollar may adversely affect their ability to profitably sell in their market the products they buy from us, and may adversely affect their ability to make payment to us for the products they purchase. Legal recourse for non-payment of indebtedness may be uncertain. These factors all contribute to a potential for credit losses.. 22. We are increasingly dependent on manufacturing in Mexico, and could be adversely affected by increased labor costs and any economic, social or political disruptions.. We continue to expand our production in Mexico. Most of the material we use in manufacturing is imported into Mexico, and substantially all of the products we manufacture in Mexico are exported.. As of December 31, 2017, we employed 1,845 people in operations and product development in our plant in Ensenada, Mexico. Business activity in the Ensenada area has expanded significantly, providing increased employment opportunities. This could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain necessary personnel and result in an increase in labor rates. We continue to take steps to compete for labor through attractive employment conditions and benefits, but there is no assurance that these steps will continue to be successful or that we will not face increasing labor costs in the future.. Any political or economic disruption in Mexico or a change in the local economies could have an adverse effect on our operations. We depend on our ability to move goods across borders quickly, and any disruption in the free flow of goods across national borders could have an adverse effect on our business.  Additionally, political and social instability resulting from violence in certain areas of Mexico has raised concerns about the safety of our personnel.  These concerns may hinder our ability to send domestic personnel abroad and to hire and retain local personnel.  Such concerns may require us to conduct more operations from the U.S. rather than Mexico, which may negatively impact our operations and result in higher costs and inefficiencies.. Our operations may be adversely impacted by our exposure to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates.. We market our products in certain foreign markets through our subsidiaries and other international distributors. The related sales agreements may provide for payments in a foreign currency. Accordingly, our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. When the U.S. dollar weakens against these currencies, the dollar value of foreign-currency denominated revenue and expense increases, and when the dollar strengthens against these currencies, the dollar value of foreign-currency denominated revenue and expense decreases. We are exposed to foreign currency risk on outstanding foreign currency denominated receivables and payables. Changes in exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. Our primary foreign currency exchange rate exposures are currently with the Euro, Mexican Peso, Costa Rican  Coln, and the Canadian Dollar against the U.S. dollar.. We currently do not hedge against our foreign currency exchange rate risks, other than the Mexican Peso and therefore believe our exposure to these risks may be higher than if we entered into hedging transactions, including forward exchange contracts or similar instruments. If we decide in the future to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to attempt to reduce the risk related to foreign currency exchange rates, these contracts may not mitigate the potential adverse impact on our financial results due to the variability of timing and amount of payments under these contracts. In addition, these types of contracts may themselves cause financial harm to us and have inherent levels of counter-party risk over which we would have no control.. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other worldwide anti-bribery laws.. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other commercial advantage. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, which often carry substantial penalties, including criminal and civil fines, potential loss of export licenses, possible suspension of the ability to do business with the federal government, denial of government reimbursement for products and exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs. We operate in jurisdictions that have experienced governmental and private sector corruption to some degree, and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with certain local customs and practices. We cannot assure that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or other inappropriate acts committed by our affiliates, employees, distributors or other agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect the Company's effective income tax rate and profitability.. The Company is subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Although comprehensive U.S. tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"the Tax Act\") enacted in December 2017 lowered the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21%, the Company's effective income tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation. 23. of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, the outcome of income tax audits in various jurisdictions around the world, and any repatriation of non-US earnings for which the Company has not previously provided for U.S. taxes. The Company regularly assesses all of these matters to determine the adequacy of its tax provision, which is subject to significant discretion.. The Tax Act is unclear in certain respects and could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections, as well as interpretations and implementing regulations by the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service (IRS), any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation. In addition, it is unclear how these U.S. federal income tax changes will affect state and local taxation, which often uses federal taxable income as a starting point for computing state and local tax liabilities. While some of the changes made by the tax legislation may adversely affect the Company in one or more reporting periods and prospectively, other changes may be beneficial on a going forward basis. The Company is still evaluating certain provisions included in the Tax Act and therefore has not completed its full assessment.  As such, there may be material adverse effects resulting from the Tax Act that the Company has not yet identified."
