[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements. These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" of this Form 10-K.. Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting our financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be an indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods.. 12. Our revenues and operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and such fluctuations may lead to a reduced market price for our stock.. Our revenues and operating results have varied in the past and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful, but securities analysts and investors often rely upon these comparisons as indicators of future performance. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, or the guidance that we provide, the market price of our stock would likely decline.. Factors that have caused our results to fluctuate in the past and which are likely to affect us in the future include the following:. •  business and economic conditions overall and in our markets;. •  the timing and size of customer orders that may be tied to annual or other budgetary cycles, seasonal demand, product plans or program roll-out schedules;. •  the effects of the U.S. Government shut downs, spending cuts and other changes in budget allocation or availability that create uncertainty for customers in certain parts of our business;. •  the absence of significant backlog in our business;. •  cancellations or delays of customer orders or the loss of a significant customer;. •  the length of sales cycles associated with our product or service offerings;. •  variations in the mix of products and services we sell;. •  reductions in the average selling prices that we are able to charge due to competition or other factors;. •  our ability to obtain an adequate supply of quality components and to deliver our products on a timely basis;. •  our inventory levels and the inventory levels of our customers and indirect sales channels;. •  the extent to which we invest in development, sales and marketing, and other expense categories;. •  acquisitions, dispositions or organizational restructuring;. •  fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar;. •  the cost or impact of litigation;  and. •  the write-off of investments.. Estimating the amount and mix of future revenues is difficult, and our failure to do so accurately could affect our ability to be profitable or reduce the market price for our stock.. Accurately estimating future revenues is difficult because the purchasing patterns of our customers can vary depending upon a number of factors. We sell our smart card readers primarily through a channel of distributors who place orders on an ongoing basis depending on their customers' requirements. As a result, the size and timing of these orders can vary from quarter to quarter. The increasing market demand for RFID and NFC technology is resulting in larger program deployments of these products and components, as well as increasing competition for these solutions. Across our business, the timing of closing larger orders increases the risk of quarter-to-quarter fluctuation in revenues. If orders forecasted for a specific group of customers for a particular quarter are not realized or revenues are not otherwise recognized in that quarter, our operating results for that quarter could be materially adversely affected. For example, in the quarter ended September 30, 2017, we experienced lower sales in our Premises segment as a result of the timing of orders received from federal government customers late or after the quarter ended. In addition, from time to time, we may experience an unexpected increase or decrease in demand for our products resulting from fluctuations in our customers' budgets, purchasing patterns or deployment schedules. These occurrences are not always predictable and can have a significant impact on our results in the period in which they occur.. Failure to accurately forecast customer demand may result in excess or obsolete inventory, which if written down might adversely impact our cost of revenues and financial condition. For example, in the quarter ended December 31, 2017, in the Credentials segment, we recorded a transponder related inventory reserve adjustment associated with a customer relationship which ended at the end of 2015 and our decision to discontinue plans for alternate use of the product.. In addition, our expense levels are based, in significant part, upon our expectations as to future revenues and are largely fixed in the short term. We may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenues. Any significant shortfall in revenues in relation to our expectations could have an immediate and significant effect on our operating results for that quarter and may lead to a reduced market price for our stock.. 13. Our loan covenants may affect our liquidity or limit our ability to incur debt, make investments, sell assets, merge or complete other significant transactions.. On February 8, 2017, we entered into Loan and Security Agreements with East West Bank (\"EWB\") and Venture Lending & Leasing VII, Inc. and Venture Lending & Leasing VIII, Inc. (collectively referred to as \"VLL7 and VLL8\"). The Loan and Security Agreement with EWB provides for a $10.0 million revolving loan facility (the \"Revolving Loan Facility\"), and the Loan Security Agreement with VLL7 and VLL8 provides for a term loan in an aggregate principal amount of $10.0 million (the \"Term Loan Facility\"). Our obligations under these agreements are secured by substantially all of our assets. Each of the Revolving Loan Facility and the Term Loan Facility contain customary representations and warranties and customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, limits or restrictions on our ability to incur liens, incur indebtedness, make certain restricted payments, merge or consolidate and dispose of assets. The Revolving Loan Facility also contains various financial covenants. In addition, each of the Revolving Loan Facility and the Term Loan Facility contains customary events of default that entitle EWB or VLL7 and VLL8, as appropriate, to cause any or all of our indebtedness under the Revolving Loan Facility or the Term Loan Facility, respectively, to become immediately due and payable. The events of default (some of which are subject to applicable grace or cure periods), include, among other things, non-payment defaults, covenant defaults, cross-defaults to other material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults and material judgment defaults. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default, EWB and VLL7 and VLL8 may terminate their lending commitments and/or declare all or any part of the unpaid principal of all loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon and all other amounts payable under the Loan and Security Agreements to be immediately due and payable. If repayment of the indebtedness is accelerated, we could face a substantial liquidity problem and may be forced to dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Such alternative measures may not be available or successful. Also, our loan covenants may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operations or to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Even if we are able to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, the economic terms may not be favorable to us. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make periodic interest payments and to repay our debt when due depends on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and other factors. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.. If we are not able to secure additional financing when needed, our business could be adversely affected.. We may seek or need to raise additional funds for general corporate and commercial purposes or for acquisitions. Our ability to obtain financing depends on our historical and expected future operating and financial performance, and is also subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to secure additional financing when desired, our ability to fund our business operations, make capital expenditures, pursue additional expansion or acquisition opportunities, or have resources available to capitalize on other opportunities could be limited, and this could adversely impact our financial results. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. The sale of additional debt or equity securities may cause dilution to existing stockholders. Any debt or equity securities issued may also provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock and could impose significant restrictions on our operations. In addition, any capital we raise may be restricted with respect to use. For example, we raised approximately $12.0 million in December 2017 through the sale of convertible preferred stock, which proceeds may only be used to pay down debt, or for acquisitions.. Acquisitions and strategic investments require substantial resources, expose us to significant risks and may adversely impact our business.. As part of our growth strategy, we may seek to acquire or make investments in companies, products or technologies that we believe complement or augment our existing business, product offerings or technology portfolio. For example, on February 14, 2018, we acquired 3VR Security, Inc., a video technology and analytics company for approximately $6.9 million, consisting of (i) approximately $1.6 million in cash, (ii) the issuance of subordinated unsecured promissory notes in an aggregate principal amount of $2.0 million, and (iii) the issuance of shares of our common stock with a value of approximately $3.3 million. In addition, in the event that 3VR Security, Inc. achieves $24.1 million in product shipments in 2018, we will be obligated to issue further earn-out consideration of $3.5 million payable in shares of our common stock (subject to certain conditions) with a potential maximum earn-out value of $7.0 million in the event that such shipments exceed $48.2 million.  Further, in calendar year 2019, we may also be obligated to pay, in cash, and subject to certain conditions, contingent consideration equal to the lesser of (A) 35% of the gross margin of certain products sold and services rendered by 3VR Security, Inc. in 2018 pursuant to a supply arrangement and (B) $25.0 million, each subject to adjustments. Acquiring and integrating acquired assets into our business exposes us to certain risks.. 14. Executing acquisition or investment transactions and assimilating personnel and operations from an acquired business may require significant attention and resources, which may divert the attention of our management and employees from day-to-day operations and disrupt our business. This may adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurances that the expected benefits of any acquisitions will be achieved.. The costs associated with an acquisition may be significant, whether or not the acquisition transaction is successfully concluded. As a result, acquisition activities may reduce the amount of capital available to fund our business. To purchase another company, we may be required to issue additional equity securities, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. Acquisitions may result in the assumption of additional liabilities or debt, including unanticipated liabilities, or charges to earnings for such items as amortization of purchased intangibles or in-process research and development expenses. Such liabilities, indebtedness or charges could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions and strategic investments may also lead to substantial increases in non-current assets, including goodwill. Write-downs of these assets due to unforeseen business developments may materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, we have in the past acquired companies that we have subsequently divested, in some cases for less than we paid to acquire the companies. Such divestitures involve risks, such as difficulty separating out portions of or entire businesses, distracting our management team and employees, potential loss of revenue and potentially disrupting customer relationships. We have and may again in the future incur significant costs associated with exit or disposal activities, related impairment charges, or both, if we exit or divest a business or product line. If we are not able to successfully integrate or divest products, technologies, or personnel from businesses that we acquire or divest, or if we are not able to realize the expected benefits of our acquisitions, divestitures, or strategic investments, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.. Our business and reputation may adversely affected by information technology system failures or network disruptions.. We may be subject to information technology system failures and network disruptions. These may be caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or other events or disruptions. System redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures or disruptions could compromise company or customer data and result in delayed or cancelled orders. System failures and disruptions could also impede the manufacturing and shipping of products, delivery of online services, processing of transactions and reporting of financial results. In addition, any such failures or disruptions could harm our reputation.. Our success depends largely on the continued service and availability of key personnel.. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate our senior management team as well as qualified technical personnel, particularly software engineers. Competition for these employees is intense and many of our competitors may have greater name recognition and significantly greater financial resources to better compete for these employees. If we are unable to retain our existing personnel, or attract and train additional qualified personnel, our growth may be limited. All of our key employees are employed on an \"at will\" basis, meaning either we or the employee may terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of key employees could slow our product development processes and sales efforts or harm our reputation. Also, our low common stock price may result in difficulty attracting and retaining personnel as stock options and other forms of equity incentives generally comprise a significant portion of our employee compensation.  Further, restructurings and reductions in force that we have recently experienced may have a negative effect on employee morale and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel.. Our business could be adversely affected by reductions or delays in the purchase of our products or services for government security programs in the United States and globally.. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from indirect sales to U.S. federal, state and local governments and government agencies, as well as from subcontracts under federal government prime contracts. Large government programs are an important market for our business, as high-security systems employing physical access, smart card, RFID or other access control technologies are increasingly used to enable applications ranging from authorizing building and network access for federal employees to paying taxes online, to citizen identification, to receiving health care. We believe that the success and growth of our business will continue to be influenced by our successful procurement of government business either directly or through our indirect sales channels. Accordingly, changes in government purchasing policies or government budgetary constraints, including government shutdowns, could directly affect our financial performance. Sales to government agencies and customers primarily serving the U.S. Government, including further sales pursuant to existing contracts, may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, such as the sequester, federal government shutdowns or other Congressional actions to reduce federal spending, and by adverse economic, political or market conditions. A reduction in current or future anticipated sales to the U.S. Government sector could harm our results of operations.. 15. Additionally, we anticipate that an increasingly significant portion of our future revenues will come from government programs outside the U.S., such as electronic national identity, eGovernment and eHealth programs. We currently supply smart card readers, RFID products and credential provisioning and management solutions for various government programs in Europe, Asia and Australia and are actively targeting additional programs in these and other geographic areas. However, the allocation and availability of funding for such programs are often impacted by economic or political factors over which we have no control, and which may cause delays in program implementation, which could negatively impact our sales and results of operations.. Our revenues may decline if we cannot compete successfully in an intensely competitive market.. We target our products at the rapidly evolving market for security technologies. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, purchasing and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or standards and to changes in customer requirements. Our competitors may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products or solutions and may be able to deliver competitive products or solutions at a lower end user price.. We also experience indirect competition from certain of our customers who currently offer alternative products or solutions or are expected to introduce competitive offerings in the future. For example, in our Premises business, many of our dealer channel partners act as system integrators, providing installation and service, and therefore carry competitive lines of products and systems. This is a common practice within the industry as the integrators need access to multiple lines in order to support all potential service and user requirements. Depending on the technical competence of their sales forces, the comfort level of their technical staff with our systems and price pressures from customers, these integrators may choose to offer a competitor's product. There is also business pressure to provide some level of sales to all vendors to maintain access to a range of products and systems.. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our products and solutions include:. •  the extent to which products and systems must support evolving industry standards and provide interoperability;. •  the extent to which products are differentiated based on technical features, quality and reliability, ease of use, strength of distribution channels and price;. •  the ability to quickly develop new products and solutions to satisfy new market and customer requirements; and. •  the total cost of ownership including installation, maintenance and expansion capability of systems.. Increased competition and increased market volatility in our industry could result in lower prices, reduced margins or the failure of our product and service offerings to achieve or maintain market acceptance, any of which could have a serious adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our percentage of revenue and customer concentration is significant in certain of our businesses.. Sales to our ten largest customers accounted for 33% of total net revenue in 2017 and 34% of total net revenue in 2016. No customer accounted for more than 10% of our total net revenue in 2017 or 2016. A significant amount of revenue is sourced from sales of products and systems to our OEM partners and an indirect sales network who sell to various entities within the U.S. federal government sector. We cannot guarantee that future reductions in U.S. Government budgets will not impact our sales to these government entities or that the terms of existing contracts will not be subject to renegotiation. Our loss of one or more significant customers could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business will not be successful if we do not keep up with the rapid changes in our industry.. The market for security products and related services is characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. To be competitive, we have to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our products and services, particularly in response to competitive offerings, and quickly demonstrate the value of new products and services or enhancements to existing products and services. Our failure to develop and introduce new products and services successfully on a timely basis and to achieve market acceptance for such products and services could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Security breaches, whether or not related to our products, could result in the disclosure of sensitive government information or private personal information that could result in the loss of clients and negative publicity.. Many of the systems we sell manage private personal information or protect sensitive information related to our customers in the government or commercial markets. A well-publicized actual or perceived breach of network or computer security in one of these systems, regardless of whether such a breach is attributable to our products, could adversely affect the market's perception of us and our products, and could result in the loss of customers, have an adverse effect on our reputation and reduce demand for our products.. 16. As part of our technical support services, we agree, from time to time, to possess all or a portion of the security system database of our customers. This service is subject to a number of risks. For example, despite our security measures our systems may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks by hackers, physical break-ins and service disruptions that could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. If any such compromise of our security were to occur, it could be very expensive to correct, could damage our reputation and result in the loss of customers, and could discourage potential customers from using our services. We could also be liable for damages and penalties. Although we have not experienced attempted cyber or physical attacks, we may experience such attempts in the future. Our systems also may be affected by outages, delays and other difficulties. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover losses and liabilities that may result from such events.. Sales of our products could decline and we could be subject to legal claims for damages if our products are found to have defects.. Despite our testing efforts, our products may contain defects that are not detected until after the products have been shipped. The discovery of defects or potential defects may result in damage to our reputation, delays in market acceptance of our products and additional expenditures to resolve issues related to the products' implementation. If we are unable to provide a solution to actual or potential product defects that is acceptable to our customers, we may be required to incur substantial costs for product recall, repair and replacement, or costs related to legal or warranty claims made against us.. The global nature of our business exposes us to operational and financial risks and our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to manage them effectively.. We market and sell our products and solutions to customers in many countries around the world. To support our global sales, customer base and product development activities, we maintain company offices and/or business operations in several locations around the world, including Germany, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Singapore and the U.S. We also maintain manufacturing facilities in Singapore and California and engage contract manufacturers in multiple countries outside the U.S. Managing our global development, sales, administrative and manufacturing operations places a significant burden on our management resources and our financial processes and exposes us to various risks, including:. •  longer accounts receivable collection cycles;. •  changes in foreign currency exchange rates;. •  changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements;. •  changes in political or economic conditions and stability, particularly in emerging markets;. •  difficulties managing widespread sales and manufacturing operations;. •  export controls;. •  less effective protection of our intellectual property; and. •  potentially adverse tax consequences.. Any failure to effectively mitigate these risks and effectively manage our global operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results.. A significant portion of our revenue is through an indirect sales channel, and the loss of dealers, systems integrators, resellers, or other channel partners could result in decreased revenue.. We currently use an indirect sales channel that includes dealers, systems integrators, value added resellers and resellers to sell a significant portion of our products and solutions, primarily into markets or to customers where the channel partner may have closer relationships or greater access than we do. Some of these channel partners also sell our competitors' products, and if they favor our competitors' products for any reason, they may fail to market our products as effectively or to devote necessary resources that result in effective sales, which would cause our sales to suffer. Indirect selling arrangements are intended to benefit both us and the channel partner, and may be long- or short-term relationships, depending on market conditions, competition in the marketplace and other factors. If we are unable to maintain effective indirect sales channels, there could be a reduction in the amount of product we are able to sell, and our revenues could decrease.. 17. We depend upon third-party manufacturers and a limited number of suppliers, and if we experience disruptions in our supply chain or manufacturing, our business may suffer.. We rely upon a limited number of suppliers for some key components of our products which exposes us to various risks, including whether or not our suppliers will provide adequate quantities with sufficient quality on a timely basis and the risk that supplier pricing may be higher than anticipated. In addition, some of the basic components used in some of our products, such as semiconductors, may at any time be in great demand. This could result in components not being available to us in a timely manner or at all, particularly if larger companies have ordered significant volumes of those components, or in higher prices being charged for components we require. Disruption or termination of the supply of components or software used in our products could delay shipments of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and could also damage relationships with current and prospective customers.. Many of our products are manufactured outside the U.S. by contract manufacturers. Our reliance on these manufactures poses a number of risks, including lack of control over the manufacturing process and ultimately over the quality and timing of delivery of our products. If any of our contract manufacturers cannot meet our production requirements, we may be required to rely on other contract manufacturing sources or identify and qualify new contract manufacturers, and we may not be able to do this in a timely manner or on reasonable terms. Additionally, we may be subject to currency fluctuations, potentially adverse tax consequences, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, export controls, or political and economic instability. Any significant delay in our ability to obtain adequate supplies of our products from our current or alternative manufacturers could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, if we are not successful at managing the contract manufacturing process, the quality of our products could be jeopardized or inventory levels could be inadequate or excessive, which could result in damage to our reputation with our customers and in the marketplace, as well as possible shortages of products or write-offs of excess inventory.. Our U.S. Government business depends upon the continuance of regulations that require federal agencies to implement security systems such as ours, and upon our ability to receive certain government approvals or certifications and demonstrate compliance in government audits or investigations. A failure to receive these government approvals or certifications or a negative audit result could result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. While we are not able to quantify the amount of sales made to end customers in the U.S. Government market due to the indirect nature of our selling process, we believe that orders from U.S. Government agencies represent a significant portion of our revenues. The U.S. Government, suppliers to the U.S. Government and certain industries in the public sector currently fall, or may in the future fall, under particular regulations that require federal agencies to implement security systems that utilize physical and logical access control products and solutions such as ours. These regulations include, but are not limited to HSPD 12 and FIPS 201 produced by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (\"NIST\"). Discontinuance of, changes in, or lack of adoption of laws or regulations pertaining to security related to sales to end customers in the U.S. Government market could adversely affect our sales.. Our U.S. Government business is also dependent upon the receipt of certain governmental approvals or certifications and failure to receive such approvals or certifications could have a material adverse effect on our sales in those market segments for which such approvals or certifications are customary or required. Government agencies in the U.S. and other countries may audit our business as part of their routine audits and investigations of government procurement programs. Based on the outcome of any such audit, if any of our costs are found to be improperly allocated to a specific order, those costs may not be reimbursed and any costs already reimbursed for such order may have to be refunded. If a government agency audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions. A negative audit could materially affect our competitive position and result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other major currencies in which we do business may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A significant portion of our business is conducted in foreign currencies, principally the euro. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will result in currency exchange gains and losses in our reported results. If a significant portion of operating expenses are incurred in a foreign currency such as the euro, and revenues are generated in U.S. dollars, exchange rate fluctuations might have a positive or negative net financial impact on these transactions, depending on whether the value of the U.S. dollar decreases or increases compared to the euro. In addition, the valuation of current assets and liabilities that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency can result in currency exchange gains and losses. For example, when one of our subsidiaries uses the euro as the functional currency, and this subsidiary has a receivable in U.S. dollars, a devaluation of the U.S. dollar against the euro of 10% would result in a foreign exchange loss to the reporting entity of 10% of the value of the underlying U.S. dollar receivable. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. The effect of currency exchange rate changes may increase or decrease our costs and/or revenues in any given period, and we may experience currency losses in the future. To date, we have not adopted a hedging program to protect against the risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations.. 18. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which could make us less competitive and cause us to lose market share.. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our intellectual property rights and our ability to protect these rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions to establish, maintain and protect our proprietary rights. From time to time we may be required to use litigation to protect our proprietary technology. This may result in our incurring substantial costs and we may not be successful in any such litigation. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized third parties may copy aspects of our products, obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, or infringe upon our patents. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary and intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws in the U.S. Because many of our products are sold and a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S., our exposure to intellectual property risks may be higher. Our efforts to protect our proprietary and intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Additionally, there is a risk that our competitors will independently develop similar technology or duplicate our products or design around patents or other intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property or our products or technologies are duplicated by others, our competitive position could be harmed and we could lose market share.. We face risks from future claims of third parties and litigation, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. From time to time, we may be subject to claims of third parties, possibly resulting in litigation, which could include, among other things, claims regarding infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties, product defects, employment-related claims, and claims related to acquisitions, dispositions or restructurings. Addressing any such claims or litigation may be time-consuming and costly, divert management resources, cause product shipment delays, require us to redesign our products, require us to accept returns of products and to write-off inventory, or result in other adverse effects to our business. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could require us to pay significant monetary damages.. We expect the likelihood of intellectual property infringement and misappropriation claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in the security market grows and as we increasingly incorporate third-party technology into our products. As a result of infringement claims, we could be required to license intellectual property from a third party or redesign our products. Licenses may not be offered when required or on acceptable terms. If we do obtain licenses from third parties, we may be required to pay license fees or royalties or we may be required to license some of our intellectual property to others in return for such licenses. If we are unable to obtain a license necessary for us or our third-party manufacturers to manufacture our allegedly infringing products, we could be required to suspend the manufacture of products or stop our suppliers from using processes that may infringe the rights of third parties. We may also be unsuccessful in redesigning our products. Our suppliers and customers may be subject to infringement claims based on intellectual property included in our products. We have historically agreed to indemnify our suppliers and customers for patent infringement claims relating to our products. The scope of this indemnity varies, but may, in some instances, include indemnification for damages and expenses, including attorney's fees. We may periodically engage in litigation as a result of these indemnification obligations. Our insurance policies exclude coverage for third-party claims for patent infringement.. Our stock price has been and is likely to remain volatile.. Over the past few years, The Nasdaq Capital Market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of the stocks of technology companies. Volatility in our stock price may result from a number of factors, including, among others:. •  low volumes of trading activity in our stock;. •  technical trading patterns of our stock;. •  variations in our or our competitors' financial and/or operational results;. •  the fluctuation in market value of comparable companies in any of our markets;. •  expected or announced news about partner relationships, customer wins or losses, product announcements or organizational changes;. •  comments and forecasts by securities analysts;. •  the inclusion or removal of our stock from market indices, such as groups of technology stocks or other indices;. •  litigation developments; and. •  general market downturns.. 19. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been the object of securities class action litigation.. We have been named as a defendant in putative securities class action and derivative lawsuits. These lawsuits and other litigation could cause us to incur substantial expenses and divert our attention and resources.. Securities class action lawsuits have often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Companies such as ours in the technology industry are particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation due to the volatility of their stock prices. We and a number of our current and former officers and directors are defendants in putative class lawsuits and derivative litigation, which is discussed in the Section entitled \"Legal Proceedings.\" Any litigation to which we are a party may result in the diversion of management attention and resources from our business and business strategy. In addition, any litigation to which we are a party may result in onerous or unfavorable judgments that may not be reversed upon appeal and that may require us to pay substantial monetary damages or fines, or we may decide to settle lawsuits on similarly unfavorable terms, which could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. You may experience dilution of your ownership interests due to the future issuance of additional shares of our stock, and future sales of shares of our common stock could adversely affect our stock price.. We have issued a significant number of shares of our common stock, together with warrants to purchase shares of our common stock and convertible preferred stock, in connection with a number of financing transactions and acquisitions in recent years.  In the future, from time to time we may issue additional previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our current stockholders.. In addition, we have reserved shares of common stock for potential future issuance including stock issuable pursuant to various equity incentive plans, as contingent consideration related to previous acquisitions, the conversion of our preferred stock and various warrants issued in connection with previous capital raises and other transactions. As of March 15, 2018, 2,132,485 shares of common stock are reserved for future grants and outstanding equity awards under our various equity incentive plans and an additional 6,855,089 shares of common stock are reserved for future issuance in connection with other commitments, including the potential issuance of shares pursuant to warrant exercises and conversion of convertible preferred stock. We may issue additional shares of common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for shares of common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future financings or for other business purposes. If we issue additional securities, the aggregate percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will be reduced. In addition, any new securities that we issue may have rights senior to those of our common stock.. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or preferred stock or other securities, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock.. If current or future export laws limit or otherwise restrict our business, we could be prohibited from shipping our products to certain countries, which could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer.. Some of our products are subject to export controls or other laws restricting the sale of our products under the laws of the U.S., the European Union (\"EU\") and other governments. The export regimes and the governing policies applicable to our business are subject to change. We cannot be certain that such export authorizations will be available to us or for our products in the future. In some cases, we rely upon the compliance activities of our prime contractors, and we cannot be certain they have taken or will take all measures necessary to comply with applicable export laws. If we or our prime contractor partners cannot obtain required government approvals under applicable regulations, we may not be able to sell our products in certain international jurisdictions.. 20. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation thereof, adverse tax audits and other tax matters may adversely affect our future results.. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"), which significantly changed prior U.S. tax law and includes numerous provisions that affect our business in the current year and future years. Accounting for these provisions in fiscal 2017 requires the use of provisional estimates in our financial statements, and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for the Tax Act's provisions. As regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the Tax Act, and as we gather more information and perform more analysis, our results may materially differ from previous estimates, and those differences may materially affect our financial position. The net impact of such changes are uncertain, and could adversely affect our tax rate and cash flow in future years.. A number of other factors may impact our tax position as well, including:. •  the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;. •  the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities;. •  changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;. •  adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns;. •  increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; and. •  the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes.. Any of these factors could make it more difficult for us to project or achieve expected tax results. An increase or decrease in our tax liabilities due to these or other factors could adversely affect our financial results in future periods.. We had a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, and if we fail to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our management must establish, maintain and make certain assessments and certifications regarding our disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting. We have dedicated significant resources to comply with these requirements, including significant actions to develop, evaluate, and test our internal controls. A failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in inaccurate or late reporting of our financial results, an investigation by regulatory authorities, a loss of investor confidence, a decrease in the trading price of our common stock and exposure to costly litigation or regulatory proceedings.. As described in Controls and Procedures in Part II, Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in connection with the audit of our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015, we identified a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting during 2015. Management determined that the design and operating effectiveness of our controls over the financial statement close process related to the application of our accounting policies and the presentation of disclosures in the financial statements had been inadequate.  Specifically, this material weakness arose from insufficient review and oversight of the recording of complex and non-routine transactions, including revenue transactions, due to an insufficient number of accounting personnel with appropriate knowledge, experience or training in U.S. GAAP. A similar material weakness was previously identified and disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the years ended December 2012 and 2013, and a remediation plan was implemented.. In 2016, a number of remediation actions and organizational changes were enacted to address specific control weaknesses identified, but the material weakness had not been fully remediated as of December 31, 2016. During the course of 2016, as part of our restructuring initiatives announced in the first quarter of 2016, we streamlined our global operations, transitioned to a single accounting system across substantially all our businesses, and strengthened our global accounting and finance function in Orange County, California. In 2017, we implemented procedures and controls over the financial statement close process, reallocated worldwide accounting resources, and continued to strengthen our accounting and finance team by hiring additional personnel with U.S. GAAP experience. We believe these initiatives allow for the necessary review and oversight of the recording complex and non-routine transactions. Management has determined that with the remediation measures undertaken in 2016 and through June 30, 2017, the material weakness has been fully remediated as of June 30, 2017. However, we may in the future identify additional internal control deficiencies that could rise to the level of a material weakness or uncover errors in our financial reporting, and the existing material weakness or other material weaknesses in our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on the accuracy, timeliness and reliability of our financial reporting, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations as well as the price of our common stock.. 21. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent our acquisition by another company, which could decrease the value of your shares.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or enter into a material transaction with us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include a classified board of directors and limitations on actions by our stockholders by written consent. Delaware law imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. These provisions will apply even if the offer were to be considered adequate by some of our stockholders. Because these provisions may be deemed to discourage a change of control, they may delay or prevent the acquisition of our company, which could decrease the value of our common stock."
