[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. For an enterprise as diverse and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors present risks to the Company and could materially affect future developments and performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of our operations and the financial results of our operations elsewhere in this report, the most significant of these factors are as follows:. Changes in U.S. or International Economic Conditions Could Adversely Affect the Sales and Profitability of Our Businesses.. In 2017, 51% of the Company's sales were derived from domestic operations while 49% were derived from international operations. The Company's largest end markets include life sciences and medical technologies, fire and rescue, oil & gas, paint and coatings, chemical processing, agriculture, water & wastewater treatment and optical filters and components. A slowdown in the U.S. or global economy and, in particular, any of these specific end markets could reduce the Company's sales and profitability.. Change to Political and Economic Conditions in the U.S. and Foreign Countries in Which We Operate Could Adversely Affect Our Business.. In 2017, approximately 49% of our total sales were to customers outside the U.S. We expect our international operations and export sales to continue to be significant for the foreseeable future. Our sales from international operations and our sales from export are both subject in varying degrees to risks inherent in doing business outside the U.S. These risks include the following:. • possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations;. • risks of economic instability;. • currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation;. • potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies;. • disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances;. • withdrawal from or renegotiation of international trade agreements and other restrictions on the trade between the United States and other countries;. • changes in tariff and trade barriers and import or export licensing requirements; and. • political instability, terrorism, insurrection or war.. Any of these events could have an adverse impact on our business and operations.. Our Inability to Continue to Develop New Products Could Limit Our Sales Growth.. Our ability to continue to grow organically is tied in large part to our ability to continue to develop new products.. Our Growth Strategy Includes Acquisitions and We May Not be Able to Make Acquisitions of Suitable Candidates or Integrate Acquisitions Successfully.. Our historical growth has included, and our future growth is likely to continue to include, acquisitions. We intend to continue to seek acquisition opportunities both to expand into new markets and to enhance our position in existing markets throughout the world. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing needed to consummate those acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. In addition, any acquisition, once successfully integrated, may not perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or otherwise prove beneficial to us.. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the assumption of undisclosed or unindemnified liabilities, difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. In addition, prior acquisitions have resulted in, and future acquisitions could result in, the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses.. The Markets We Serve are Highly Competitive and this Competition Could Reduce our Sales and Operating Margins.. Most of our products are sold in competitive markets. Maintaining and improving our competitive position will require continued investment by us in manufacturing, engineering, quality standards, marketing, customer service and support, and our distribution networks. We may not be successful in maintaining our competitive position. Our competitors may develop products that are superior to our products, or may develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services or may adapt more quickly than us to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. Pricing pressures may require us to adjust the prices of our products to stay competitive. We may not be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with. 10. new competitors. Failure to continue competing successfully could reduce our sales, operating margins and overall financial performance.. We are Dependent on the Availability of Raw Materials, Parts and Components Used in Our Products.. While we manufacture certain parts and components used in our products, we require substantial amounts of raw materials and purchase some parts and components from suppliers. The availability and prices for raw materials, parts and components may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels. Any change in the supply of, or price for, these raw materials or parts and components could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. Significant Movements in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates May Harm Our Financial Results.. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the Euro, Swiss Franc, Canadian Dollar, British Pound, Indian Rupee and Chinese Renminbi. Any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do business against the U.S. Dollar could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For additional detail related to this risk, see Part II, Item 7A, \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.\". Fluctuations in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Position.. Our profitability may be adversely affected during any periods of unexpected or rapid increases in interest rates. We maintain a revolving credit facility, which bears interest at either an alternate base rate or an adjusted LIBOR rate plus, in each case, an applicable margin based on the Company's senior, unsecured, long-term debt rating. A significant increase in LIBOR would significantly increase our cost of borrowings. For additional detail related to this risk, see Part II, Item 7A, \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.\". An Unfavorable Outcome of Any of Our Pending Contingencies or Litigation Could Adversely Affect Us.. We are currently involved in pending and threatened legal and regulatory proceedings, including asbestos-related litigation and various legal, regulatory and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. These proceedings may pertain to matters such as product liability or contract disputes, and may also involve governmental inquiries, inspections, audits or investigations relating to issues such as tax matters, intellectual property, environmental, health and safety issues, governmental regulations, employment and other matters. Where it is reasonably possible to do so, we accrue estimates of the probable costs for the resolution of these matters. These estimates are developed in consultation with outside counsel and are based upon an analysis of potential results and the availability of insurance coverage, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. It is possible, however, that future operating results for any particular quarter or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions, the continued availability of insurance coverage or the effectiveness of our strategies related to these proceedings. For additional detail related to this risk, see Item 3, \"Legal Proceedings.\". Our Intangible Assets, Including Goodwill, are a Significant Portion of Our Total Assets and a Write-off of Our Intangible Assets or Goodwill Would Adversely Impact Our Operating Results and Significantly Reduce Our Net Worth.. Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. At December 31, 2017, goodwill and intangible assets totaled $1,704.2 million and $414.7 million, respectively. These assets result from our acquisitions, representing the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the tangible net assets we have acquired. Annually, or when certain events occur that require a more current valuation, we assess whether there has been an impairment in the value of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of our reporting units were to fall significantly below forecasted levels, we could be required to reflect, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating income for an impairment. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of our goodwill or identifiable intangible assets would adversely impact our results of operations and net worth. See Note 4 in Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" for further discussion on goodwill and intangible assets.. A Significant or Sustained Decline in Commodity Prices, Including Oil, Could Negatively Impact the Levels of Expenditures by Certain of Our Customers.. Demand for our products depends, in part, on the level of new and planned expenditures by certain of our customers. The level of expenditures by our customers is dependent on, among other factors, general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior. Volatility in commodity prices, including oil, can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. The ability of our customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may also be. 11. affected by the conditions in their industries. Reduced demand for our products could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. This reduced demand could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our Success Depends on Our Executive Management and Other Key Personnel.. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our executive management and other key personnel and their ability to provide the Company with uninterrupted leadership and direction. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or a failure to provide adequate succession plans for key personnel could have an adverse impact. The availability of highly qualified talent is limited, and the competition for talent is robust. However, we provide long-term equity incentives and certain other benefits for our executive officers which provide incentives for them to make a long-term commitment to our Company. Our future success will also depend on our ability to have adequate succession plans in place and to attract, retain and develop qualified personnel. A failure to efficiently replace executive management members and other key personnel and to attract, retain and develop new qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our operations and implementation of our strategic plan.. Our Business Operations May Be Adversely Affected by Information Systems Interruptions or Intrusion.. We depend on various information technologies throughout our Company to administer, store and support multiple business activities. If these systems are damaged, cease to function properly, or are subject to cyber-security attacks, such as those involving unauthorized access, malicious software and/or other intrusions, we could experience production downtimes, operational delays, other detrimental impacts on our operations or ability to provide products and services to our customers, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems or networks, financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability, and/or damage to our reputation. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, technical security controls, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products and services remain potentially vulnerable to known or unknown threats, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Failure To Comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act or Other Applicable Anti-bribery Laws Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the Department of Justice and the SEC, increased enforcement activity by non-U.S. regulators and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. Our policies mandate compliance with all anti-bribery laws. However, we operate in certain countries that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption. Our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third-party intermediaries. Violations of these anti-bribery laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in Applicable Tax Regulations and Resolutions of Tax Disputes Could Negatively Affect Our Financial Results.. The Company is subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The changes included in the Tax Act are broad and complex. While the Company is able to make reasonable estimates of the impact of the reduction in the corporate rate and the deemed repatriation transition tax, the final impact of the Tax Act may differ from these estimates, due to, among other things, changes in the Company's interpretations and assumptions, additional guidance that may be issued by either the Internal Revenue Service or the U.S. Department of Treasury, and actions the Company may take."
