[1] "Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS. We caution our investors that our performance is subject to risks and uncertainties. The following material risk factors may cause our future results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. You should carefully consider these factors, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K when evaluating an investment in our securities.. Investments in Future Markets of Potential Significant Growth May Not Result in Expected Returns. We have initiated investment programs with the goal of gaining a greater share of end markets using semiconductor lasers and other components including those used for 3D sensing.  We cannot guarantee that our investments in capital and capabilities will be sufficient.  The potential end markets, as well as our ability to gain market share in such markets, may not materialize on the timeline anticipated or at all.  We cannot be sure of the end market price, specification or yield for products incorporating our technologies. Our technologies could fail to fulfill, partially or completely our target customers' finalized specifications.  We cannot guarantee the end market customers' acceptance of our technologies. Further, we may be unable to fulfill the terms of our contracts with our target customers, which could result in penalties of a material nature, including consequential damages, loss of market share and loss of reputation.. Our Competitive Position Depends on Our Ability to Develop New Products and Processes. To meet our strategic objectives, we must develop, manufacture and market new products and continue to update our existing products and processes to keep pace with market developments to address increasingly sophisticated customer requirements. Our success in developing and selling new and enhanced products and processes depends upon a variety of factors including strategic product selection, efficient completion of product design and development, timely implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, effective sales and marketing, high-quality and successful product performance in the market.. The introduction by our competitors of products or processes using new developments better or faster than ours could render our products or processes obsolete or unmarketable.  We intend to continue to make significant investments in RD&E to achieve our goals.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and introduce new products or enhancements to our existing products and processes in a manner which satisfies customer needs or achieves market acceptance. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business and maintain our competitive position and on our results of operations and/or financial condition.. Our Competitive Position May Still Require Significant Investments. We continuously monitor the marketplace for strategic opportunities, and our business strategy includes expanding our product lines and markets through both internal product development and acquisitions.  Consequently, we expect to continue to consider strategic acquisition of businesses, products or technologies complementary to our business.  This may require significant investments of management time and financial resources.  If market demand is outside our organic capabilities, if a strategic acquisition is required and we cannot identify one or execute on it, and/or if financial investments that we undertake distract management, do not result in the expected return on investment, expose us to unforeseen liabilities or jeopardize our ability to comply with our credit facility covenants due to any inability to integrate the business, adjust to operating a larger and more complex organization, adapt to additional political and other requirements associated with the acquired business, retain staff, or work with the customers or otherwise we could suffer a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Our Future Success Depends on Continued International Sales, and Our Global Operations are Complex, and Present Multiple Challenges to Manage. Sales to customers in countries other than the United States accounted for approximately 68%, 69% and 63% of revenues during the years ended June 30, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. If we do not maintain our current volume of international sales, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.. We manufacture products in the United States, China, Singapore, Vietnam, the Philippines, Germany, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom and through a contract manufacturer in Thailand.  We also maintain direct sales offices in Hong Kong, Japan, Germany, China, Switzerland, Belgium, the United Kingdom, China, Italy, South Korea, and Taiwan.  Our operations vary by location and are influenced on a location-by-location basis by local customs, languages and work practices, as well as different local weather conditions, management styles and education systems. In addition, multiple complex issues may arise concurrently in different countries, potentially hampering our management's ability to respond in an effective and timely manner. Any inability to respond in an effective and timely manner to issues in our global operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. 18. Foreign Currency Risk May Negatively Affect our Revenues, Cost of Sales and Operating Margins and Could Result in Foreign Exchange Losses. We conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. Our net sales outside the United States represented a majority of our total sales in each of the last three fiscal years. We incur currency transaction risk whenever one of our operating subsidiaries enters into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a different currency from the currency in which it operates or holds assets or liabilities in a currency different than its functional currency. Changes in exchange rates can also affect our results of operations when the value of sales and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars. We cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. Further, given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to effectively manage our currency risks, and any volatility in currency exchange rates may increase the price of our products in local currency to our foreign customers or increase the manufacturing cost of our products, either of which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability.. Any Inability to Access Financial Markets from Time to Time to Raise Required Capital, Finance Our Working Capital Requirements or Our Acquisition Strategies, or Otherwise to Support our Liquidity Needs Could Negatively Impact our Ability to Finance our Operations, Meet Certain Obligations or Implement our Growth Strategy. We occasionally borrow under our existing credit facilities to fund operations, including working capital investments, and to finance our acquisition strategies. In the past, market disruptions experienced in the United States and abroad have materially impacted liquidity in the credit and debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and, in certain cases, have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. Uncertainty in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing or to refinance our existing credit facilities or existing debt arrangements on favorable terms or at all, which could negatively affect our ability to fund current and future expansion as well as future acquisitions and development. These disruptions may include turmoil in the financial services industry, volatility in the markets where our outstanding securities trade, and general economic downturns in the areas where we do business. If we are unable to access funds at competitive rates, or if our short-term or long-term borrowing costs increase, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and implement our operating strategies could be adversely affected.. In the future we may be required to raise additional capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. Such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business and prospects. Additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to undertake certain operational activities that we otherwise would find to be desirable. Further, debt service obligations associated with any such debt financing could reduce our profitability. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures.. We May Incur Substantially More Indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including secured indebtedness, subject to the restrictions contained in our debt instruments.  We are not restricted under the terms of the indenture governing our outstanding convertible senior notes from incurring additional indebtedness, securing existing or future indebtedness, recapitalizing our debt obligations or taking a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the indenture.  Our credit facility currently restricts our ability to incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, but if our credit facility matures or is repaid, we may not be subject to such restrictions under the terms of any subsequent indebtedness.. We May Not Be Able to Settle Conversions of Our Convertible Senior Notes in Cash or to Repurchase the Notes in Accordance with Their Terms. Holders of our outstanding convertible senior notes have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture governing the notes) at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.  In addition, upon conversion of the notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversions (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the notes being converted. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of notes surrendered therefor or pay cash with respect to notes being converted.. In addition, our ability to repurchase or to pay cash upon conversion of the notes may be limited by law, regulatory authority or agreements governing our future indebtedness.  Our failure to repurchase notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the governing indenture or to pay any cash upon conversion of the notes as required would constitute a default under the indenture. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself also could lead to a default under agreements governing our credit facility and any of our future indebtedness.  If the payment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the notes or to pay cash upon conversion of the notes.. 19. The Conditional Conversion Feature of Our Outstanding Convertible Senior Notes, if Triggered, May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Operating Results. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the notes is triggered, holders of notes will be entitled to convert the notes at any time during specified periods at their option.  If one or more holders elect to convert their notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity.. We May Fail to Accurately Estimate the Size and Growth of Our Markets and Our Customers' Demands. We make significant decisions based on our estimates of customer requirements.  We use our estimates to determine the levels of business we seek and accept, production schedules, personnel needs and other resource requirements.. Customers may require rapid increases in production on short notice.  We may not be able to purchase sufficient supplies or allocate sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet such increases in demand. Rapid customer ramp-up and significant increases in demand may strain our resources or negatively affect our margins.  Inability to satisfy customer demand in a timely manner may harm our reputation, reduce our other opportunities, damage our relationships with customers, reduce revenue growth, and/or incur contractual penalties.. Alternatively, downturns in the industries in which we compete may cause our customers to significantly reduce their demand.  With respect to orders we initiate with our suppliers to address anticipated demand from our customers, certain suppliers may have required non-cancelable purchase commitments or advance payments from us, and those obligations and commitments could reduce our ability to adjust our inventory or expense levels to declining market demands. Unexpected decline in customer demands can result in excess or obsolete inventory and result in additional charges.  Because certain of our sales, research and development and internal manufacturing overhead expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand likely would decrease our gross margins and operating income.. We May Encounter Increased Competition. We may encounter substantial competition from other companies in the same market, including established companies with significant resources. Some of our competitors may have financial, technical, marketing or other capabilities that are more extensive than ours.  They may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and other competitive pressures. We may not be able to compete successfully against our present or future competitors.  Our failure to effectively compete could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. There Are Limitations on the Protection of Our Intellectual Property and We May From Time to Time be Involved in Costly Intellectual Property Litigation or Indemnification. We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws combined with employee confidentiality, noncompetition and nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or intellectual property. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that third-parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future.. Asserting our intellectual property rights or defending against third-party claims could involve substantial expense.  In the event a third-party were successful in a claim that one of our processes infringed its proprietary rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages or royalties, or spend substantial amounts in order to obtain a license or modify processes so that they no longer infringe such proprietary rights.  Any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. A Significant Portion of Our Business is Dependent on Cyclical Industries. Our business is dependent on the demand for products produced by end-users of industrial lasers, optical communication products and components for 3D sensing. Many of these end-users are in industries that have historically experienced a highly cyclical demand for their products. As a result, demand for our products is subject to these cyclical fluctuations. Fluctuations in demand could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. 20. Changes in Laws and Regulations Governing Data Privacy and Data Protection Could Have a Material Adverse Impact on our Business. We are subject to many data privacy, data protection, and data breach notification laws, including the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), which became effective in May of 2018. While we have taken measures to assess the requirements of, and to comply with, the GDPR, as well as new and existing data-related laws and regulations of other jurisdictions, these measures may be challenged, including by authorities that regulate data-related compliance. We could incur significant expense in facilitating and responding to investigations, and if the measures we have taken prove to be inadequate, we could face fines, penalties or damages, and incur reputational harm, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Data Breach Incidents and Breakdown of Information and Communication Technologies Could Disrupt our Operations and Impact Our Financial Results. In the course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property (both our own and that of our customers), as well as proprietary business information. We could be subject to service outages or breaches of security systems which may result in disruption, unauthorized access, misappropriation, or corruption of this information. Security breaches of our network or data, including physical or electronic break-ins, vendor service outages, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or similar breaches can create system disruptions, shutdowns, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Although we have not experienced an incident, if we are unable to prevent such security or privacy breaches, our operations would be disrupted or we could suffer legal claims, loss of reputation, financial loss, property damage, or regulatory penalties because of lost or misappropriated information.. Global Economic Downturns May Adversely Affect Our Business, Operating Results and Financial Condition. Current and future conditions in the global economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the global economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including industrial, military, optical communications, telecommunications, semiconductor, and medical and life science markets in which we participate. All aspects of our company forecast depend on estimates of growth or contraction in the markets we serve.  Thus, prevailing global economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures very difficult to make.. Global economic downturns may affect industries in which our customers operate. These changes could include decreases in the rate of consumption or use of our customers' products. Such conditions could have a material adverse effect on demand for our customers' products, and in turn, on demand for our products.. Adverse changes may occur in the future as a result of declining or flat global or regional economic conditions, fluctuations in currency and commodity prices, wavering confidence, capital expenditure reductions, unemployment, decline in stock markets, contraction of credit availability or other factors affecting economic conditions. For example, factors that may affect our operating results include disruption in the credit and financial markets in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, adverse effects of slowdowns in the European and Chines economies, slowdown in the Chinese economy, reductions or limited growth in consumer spending or consumer credit, global trade tariffs and other adverse economic conditions that may be specific to the Internet, e-commerce and payments industries.. These changes may negatively affect sales of products and increase exposure to losses from bad debt and commodity prices, the cost and availability of financing, and costs associated with manufacturing and distributing products. Any economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We Are Subject to Complex and Rapidly Changing Governmental Import and Export Regulations. We are subject to the passage of and changes in the interpretation of regulation by U.S. government entities at the federal, state and local levels and non-U.S. agencies, including, but not limited to, the following:. •  We are required to comply with import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons, including dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies.  We may be required to obtain an export license before exporting a controlled item.  Compliance with the import laws that apply to our businesses may restrict our access to, and may increase the cost of obtaining, certain products and could interrupt our supply of imported inventory.. •  Exported technologies necessary to develop and manufacture certain products are subject to U.S. export control laws and similar laws of other jurisdictions.  We may be subject to adverse regulatory consequences, including government oversight of facilities and export transactions, monetary penalties and other sanctions for violations of these laws. In certain instances, these regulations may prohibit the Company from developing or manufacturing certain of its products for specific end applications outside the United States.. 21. Failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to import and export products and services and damage to our reputation.. Changes in U.S. Trade Policies Could Impact the Company's International Operations and the Cost of Imported Goods into the U.S., Which May Narrow the Size of Our Markets, Materially Impact Our Revenues or Increase Our Operating Costs and Expose Us to Contract Litigation. On March 23, 2018, President Trump announced new steel and aluminum tariffs, and on April 15, 2018, the U.S. Department of Commerce issued a denial order against two companies in the telecommunications market. Other international trade actions and initiatives also have been announced, notably the imposition by the U.S. of additional tariffs on products of Chinese origin, and China's imposition of additional tariffs on U.S.-origin goods. If we cannot obtain relief from, or if we cannot take other action to mitigate the impact of, these additional duties, our business and profits may be materially and adversely affected. Further changes in U.S. trade policy, or additional sanctions, could result in retaliatory actions by other countries that could materially and negatively impact the volume of economic activity in the U.S., which, in turn, may decrease our access to customers and markets, reduce our revenues, and increase our operating costs.. We Have Entered into Supply Agreements which Commit Us to Supply Products on Specified Terms. We have supply agreements with some customers which require us to supply products and to allocate sufficient capacity to make these products.  We have also agreed to pricing schedules and methodologies which could result in penalties if we fail to meet development, supply, capacity and quality commitments.  Failure to do so may cause us to be unable to generate the amount of revenue or the level of profitability we expect from these arrangements.  Our ability to realize a profit under some of these agreements will be subject to the level of customer demand, the cost of maintaining facilities and manufacturing capacity, and supply chain capability.. If we fail to fulfill our commitments under these supply agreements, our business, after using all remedies available, financial conditions and results of operations may suffer a material adverse effect.. We Depend on Highly Complex Manufacturing Processes That Require Feeder Materials, Components and Products from Limited Sources of Supply. Our operations are dependent upon a supply chain of difficult-to-make or difficult-to-refine products and materials.  Some of our product inflow is subject to yield reductions from growth or fabrication losses, and thus the quantities we may receive are not consistently predictable.  Customers may also change the specification for a product that our suppliers cannot meet.. We also make products for which the Company is one of the world's largest suppliers.  We use high-quality, optical grade ZnSe in the production of many of our IR optical products. We are a leading producer of ZnSe for our internal use and for external sale. The production of ZnSe is a complex process requiring a highly controlled environment. A number of factors, including defective or contaminated materials, could adversely affect our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields of high quality ZnSe. Lack of adequate availability of high quality ZnSe could have a material adverse effect upon our business. There can be no assurance that we will not experience manufacturing yield inefficiencies which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We produce hydrogen selenide gas which is used in our production of ZnSe. There are risks inherent in the production and handling of such material. Our lack of proper handling of hydrogen selenide could require us to curtail our production of hydrogen selenide. Our potential inability to internally produce hydrogen selenide could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. In addition, we produce and use other high purity and relatively uncommon materials and compounds to manufacture our products including, but not limited to, ZnS, GaAs, Yttrium Aluminum Garnet, Yttrium Lithium Fluoride, Calcium Fluoride, Germanium, Selenium, Telluride, Bismuth Telluride and SiC. A significant failure of our internal production processes or our suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of these necessary materials on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Our Global Operations Are Subject to Complex Legal and Regulatory Requirements. We manufacture products in the United States, China, Singapore, Vietnam, the Philippines, Germany, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom and through a contract manufacturer in Thailand.  We also maintain direct sales offices in Hong Kong, Japan, Germany, China, Switzerland, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Italy, South Korea and Taiwan.  Operations outside of the United States are subject to many legal and regulatory requirements, some of which are not aligned with others.  These include tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers, restrictions on the export or import of technology, potentially limited intellectual property protection, customs. 22. import and export requirements, anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, foreign investment rules and regulations, data privacy requirements, anti-competition laws, employment and labor laws, pensions and social insurance,  and environmental health, and safety laws and regulations.. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be onerous and expensive, and requirements differ among jurisdictions.  New laws, changes in existing laws and abrogation of local regulations by national laws result in significant uncertainties in how they will be interpreted and enforced. Failure to comply with any of these foreign laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We Use and Generate Potentially Hazardous Substances that Are Subject to Stringent Environmental Regulations. Hazardous substances used or generated in some of our research and manufacturing facilities are subject to stringent environmental regulation. We believe that our handling of such substances is in material compliance with applicable local, state and federal environmental, safety and health regulations at each operating location. We invest substantially in proper personal protective equipment, process controls including monitoring and specialized training to minimize risks to employees, surrounding communities and the environment that could result from the presence and handling of such hazardous substances. When exposure problems or potential exposure problems have been uncovered, corrective actions have been implemented and re-occurrence has been minimal or non-existent.. We have in place an emergency response plan with respect to our generation and use of the hazardous substances Hydrogen Selenide, Hydrogen Sulfide, Arsine and Phosphine. Special attention has been given to all procedures pertaining to this gaseous material to minimize the chances of its accidental release into the atmosphere.. With respect to the manufacturing, use, storage and disposal of the low-level radioactive material Thorium Fluoride, our facilities and procedures have been inspected and licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Thorium-bearing by-products are collected and shipped as solid waste to a government-approved low-level radioactive waste disposal site in Clive, Utah.. The generation, use, collection, storage and disposal of all other hazardous by-products, such as suspended solids containing heavy metals or airborne particulates, are believed by us to be in material compliance with regulations. We believe that we have obtained all of the permits and licenses required for operation of our business.. We do not carry environmental impairment insurance. Although we do not know of any material environmental, safety or health problems in our properties or processes or products, there can be no assurance that problems will not develop in the future which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We May Be Adversely Affected by Climate Change Regulations. In many of the countries in which we operate, government bodies are increasingly enacting legislation and regulations in response to potential impacts of climate change. These laws and regulations may be mandatory. They have the potential to impact our operations directly or indirectly as a result of required compliance by our customers or our supply chain. Inconsistency of regulations may also affect the costs of compliance with such laws and regulations. Assessments of the potential impact of future climate change legislation, regulation and international treaties and accords are uncertain, given the wide scope of potential regulatory change in countries in which we operate.. We may incur increased capital expenditures resulting from required compliance with revised or new legislation or regulations, added costs to purchase or lower profits from sales of our products, allowances or credits under a \"cap and trade\" system, increased insurance premiums and deductibles as new actuarial tables are developed to reshape coverage, a change in competitive position relative to industry peers, and changes to profit or loss arising from increased or decreased demand for goods produced by us and indirectly, from changes in costs of goods sold.. Some Systems That Use our Products Are Complex in Design, and Our Products May Contain Defects that Are Not Detected Until Deployed Which Could Increase Our Costs, Reduce Our Revenues, Cause Us to Lose Key Customers and May Expose Us to Litigation Arising From Derivative Lawsuits Related to Consumer Products. Some systems that use our products are inherently complex in design and require ongoing maintenance. Our customers may discover defects in our products after the products have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions. In addition, some of our products are combined with products from other vendors which may contain defects. Should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. If we are unable to correct defects or other problems, we could experience, among other things loss of customers, increased costs of product returns and warranty expenses, damage to our brand reputation, failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance, diversion of development and engineering resources, or legal action by our customers.. 23. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Unfavorable Changes in Tax Rates, Tax Liabilities or Tax Accounting Rules Could Negatively Affect Future Results. As a global company, we are subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries and jurisdictions. As such, we must exercise a level of judgment in determining our worldwide tax liabilities. Our future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates or changes in tax laws. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate.. The enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\") in December 2017 significantly affected U.S. tax law by changing how the U.S. imposes tax on multinational corporations. The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority under the Act to issue regulations and interpretive guidance. We have applied available guidance to estimate our tax obligations, but new guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department may cause us to make adjustments to our tax estimates in future periods. The Securities and Exchange Commission has issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (\"SAB 118\") acknowledging that companies will potentially encounter situations for which the analysis of certain income tax effects of the Act will be incomplete by the time financial statements are required to be issued for reporting periods that include the enactment date. In these situations, SAB 118 provides that reasonable estimates may be made for certain effects of the Act. We have recorded provisional amounts using reasonable estimates based on the guidance in SAB 118 and we anticipate adjustments to such estimates as additional analysis is completed and new regulations and guidance are issued.. In addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provision and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operation or financial condition.. Increases in Commodity Prices May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of increases in commodity prices. Our businesses purchase, produce and sell high-purity selenium and other raw materials based upon quoted market prices from minor metal exchanges. The negative impact from increases in commodity prices may not be recovered through our product sales which could have a material adverse effect on our net earnings and financial condition.. Natural Disasters or Other Global or Regional Catastrophic Events Could Disrupt Our Operations, Give Rise to Substantial Environmental Hazards and Adversely Affect Our Results. We may be exposed to business interruptions due to catastrophe, natural disaster, pandemic, terrorism or acts of war that are beyond our control. Disruptions to our facilities or systems, or to those of our key suppliers, could also interrupt operational processes and adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products and provide services and support to our customers. As a result, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Our Success Depends on Our Ability to Attract, Retain and Develop Key Personnel and Requires Continued Good Relations With Our Employees. We are highly dependent upon the experience and continuing services of certain scientists, engineers, production and management personnel. Competition for the services of these personnel is intense.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain or attract the personnel necessary for our success. The loss of the services of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Our Stock Price Has Been Volatile in the Past and May Be Volatile in the Future. The market price for our common stock on The Nasdaq Global Select Market varied between a high of $53.08 and a low of $34.00 in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. We expect that this volatility will continue. Factors that could cause fluctuation in our stock price include, among other things, general economic and market conditions, actual or anticipated variations in operating results, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, our inability to meet or exceed securities analysts' estimates or expectations, conditions or trends in the industries in which our products are purchased, announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives, capital commitments, additions or departures of key personnel,  sales of our common stock or equity-linked securities and issuance of shares of our common stock in connection with conversions of our outstanding convertible senior notes.. 24. Many of these factors are beyond our control. However, these factors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general, and The Nasdaq Stock Market and the securities of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations have in the past, and may in the future, materially and adversely affect our stock price, regardless of our operating results. This volatility may affect the price at which our shareholders can sell our common stock.. Some Anti-takeover Provisions Contained in Our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws, as Well as Provisions of Pennsylvania Law, Could Impair a Takeover Attempt, Which Could Also Reduce the Market Price of Our Common Stock. Our articles of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that could make us a less attractive target for a hostile takeover and could make more difficult or discourage a merger proposal, a tender offer or a proxy contest. Such provisions include:. •  A requirement that shareholder-nominated director nominees be nominated in advance of the meeting at which directors are elected and that specific information be provided in connection with such nomination;. •  The ability of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock without shareholder approval; and. •  Certain provisions requiring supermajority approval (at least two-thirds of the votes cast by all shareholders entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class).. In addition, the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law (the \"BCL\") contains provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or changes in our management. Many of these provisions are triggered if any person or group acquires, or discloses intent to acquire, 20% or more of a corporation's voting power, subject to certain exceptions. These provisions:. •  provide the other shareholders of the corporation with certain rights against the acquiring group or person;. •  prohibit the corporation from engaging in a broad range of business combinations with the acquiring group or person;. •  restrict the voting and other rights of the acquiring group or person; and. •  provide that certain profits realized by the acquiring group or person from the sale of our equity securities belong to and are recoverable by us.. Regardless of the amount of a person's holdings, if a shareholder or shareholder group (including affiliated persons) would be a party to certain proposed transactions with us or would be treated differently from other shareholders of ours in certain proposed transactions, the BCL requires approval by a majority of votes entitled to be cast by all shareholders other than the interested shareholder or affiliate group, unless the transaction is approved by independent directors or other criteria are satisfied. Furthermore, under the BCL, a \"short-form\" merger of II-VI cannot be implemented without the consent of our board of directors.. In addition, as permitted by Pennsylvania law, an amendment to our articles of incorporation or other corporate action that is approved by shareholders may provide mandatory special treatment for specified groups of non-consenting shareholders of the same class. For example, an amendment to our articles of incorporation or other corporate action may provide that shares of common stock held by designated shareholders of record must be cashed out at a price determined by the corporation, subject to applicable dissenters' rights.. Furthermore, the BCL provides that directors may, in discharging their duties, consider, to the extent they deem appropriate, the effects of any action upon shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers and the communities in which its offices are located. Directors are not required to consider the interests of shareholders to a greater degree than other constituencies' interests. The BCL expressly provides that directors do not violate their fiduciary duties solely by relying on \"poison pills\" or the anti-takeover provisions of the BCL. We do not currently have a \"poison pill.\". All of these provisions may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay for shares of our common stock.. Because We Do Not Currently Intend to Pay Dividends, Holders of Our Common Stock Will Benefit from an Investment in Our Common Stock Only If It Appreciates in Value, and by the Intended Anti-Dilution Actions of Our Share-Buyback Program. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock, and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future.  We currently anticipate that we will retain any future earnings to support operations and to finance the development of our business. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will maintain its value or appreciate in value.. 25"
