[1] "ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.. Our business is subject to various risks, including those described below.  In addition to the other information included in this report, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price.. Our continued growth is dependent on continuously developing and commercializing new products.. Our target markets are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, existing and emerging competition, strong price competition, and frequent new product introductions.  Accordingly, our continued growth depends on developing and commercializing new products and services, including improving our existing products and services, in order to address evolving market requirements on a timely basis.  If we fail to innovate or adequately invest in new technologies, our products and services will become dated, and we could lose our competitive position in the. 10. Table of Contents. markets that we serve as customers purchase new products offered by our competitors.  We believe that successfully introducing new products and technologies in our target markets on a timely basis provides a significant competitive advantage because customers make an investment of time in selecting and learning to use a new product and may be reluctant to switch once that selection is made.. To the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products, or such products are not accepted in the market or suffer significant delays in development, we may lose market share to our competitors, which will be difficult or impossible to regain.  An inability, for technological or other reasons, to successfully develop and introduce new products on a timely basis could reduce our growth rate or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business.  In the past, we have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, delays in the development and introduction of new products.  There can be no assurance that we will keep pace with the rapid rate of change in our markets or that our new products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, achieve market acceptance, or compete successfully with competing technologies.  Some of the factors affecting market acceptance of new products and services include:. • availability, quality, and price relative to competing products and services;. • the functionality and performance of new and existing products and services;. • the timing of introduction of new products or services relative to competing products and services;. • scientists' and customers' opinions of the utility of new products or services;. • citation of new products or services in published research;. • regulatory trends and approvals; and. • general trends in life sciences research and applied markets.. We may also have to write off excess or obsolete inventory if sales of our products are not consistent with our expectations or the market requirements for our products change due to technical innovations in the marketplace.. Our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function.. Our products are designed for use in the life sciences, diagnostic, agricultural, pharmaceutical, and consumer genomics industries.  The usefulness of our technologies depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in clinical, research, and consumer applications.  We are focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation or biological function, namely sequencing, genotyping, and gene expression profiling.  These markets are relatively new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach what we expect to be their full potential.  Other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing.  Also, researchers may not be able to successfully analyze raw genetic data or be able to convert raw genetic data into valuable information. In addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business.  If useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect.. If we do not successfully manage the development, manufacturing, and launch of new products or services, including product transitions, our financial results could be adversely affected.. We face risks associated with launching new products and pre-announcing products and services when the products or services have not been fully developed or tested.  In addition, we may experience difficulty in managing or forecasting customer reactions, purchasing decisions, transition requirements or programs with respect to newly-launched products (or products in development), which could adversely affect sales of our existing products.  For instance, in 2017, we announced and launched our NovaSeq 6000 instrument system, which was developed using our new sequencing architecture, and in 2018 we launched our iSeq 100 instrument system, which combines CMOS sensor technology with our proprietary sequencing technology.  If our products and services are not able to deliver the performance or results expected by our target markets or are not delivered on a timely basis, our reputation and credibility may suffer.  If we encounter development challenges or discover errors in our products late in our development cycle, we may delay the product launch date.  The expenses or losses associated with unsuccessful product development or launch activities or a lack of market acceptance of our new products could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. 11. Table of Contents. As we announce future products or integrate new products into our portfolio, such as new instruments or instrument platforms, we face numerous risks relating to product transitions and the evolution of our product portfolio.  We may be unable to accurately forecast new product demand and the impact of new products on the demand for current or established products. We may experience challenges relating to managing excess and obsolete inventories, managing new or higher product cost structures, and managing different sales and support requirements.  Announcements of currently planned or other new products may cause customers to defer or stop purchasing our current or established products until new products become available.  In addition, customers may defer or stop purchasing our current or established products as they assess the features and technological characteristics of new products, as compared to our current or established products, before making a financial commitment.  If customers elect to purchase newly-introduced products rather than established products, revenue recognition on such purchases may be delayed because the availability of newly-introduced products is generally constrained (compared to established products) as we scale-up manufacturing, sales, and support requirements for newly-introduced products.  Our failure to effectively manage the evolution of our product portfolio, including product transitions or introductions, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. We face intense competition, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions, or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell.. We compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture, and market products for analysis of genetic variation and biological function and other applications using a wide range of competing technologies.  We anticipate that we will continue to face increased competition as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies.  One or more of our competitors may render one or more of our technologies obsolete or uneconomical.  Some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, more focused product lines, a more established customer base, and more experience in research and development than we do.  Furthermore, life sciences, clinical genomics, and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could also develop competing products.  We believe that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product; therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to potential customers who have purchased products from competitors.  To the extent we are unable to be the first to develop or supply new products, our competitive position may suffer.. The market for molecular diagnostics products is currently limited and highly competitive, with several large companies already having significant market share, intellectual property portfolios, and regulatory expertise.  For example, the market for noninvasive prenatal testing is rapidly developing, and if our competitors are able to develop and commercialize products superior to or less expensive than ours, our business could be adversely impacted.  Established diagnostic companies also have an installed base of instruments in several markets, including clinical and reference laboratories, which could deter acceptance of our products.  In addition, some of these companies have formed alliances with genomics companies that provide them access to genetic information that may be incorporated into their diagnostic tests, potentially creating a competitive advantage for them.. We and our competitors also compete on the basis of price. As the cost of analyzing genetic variation and biological function falls over time, as we expect, we cannot be sure that the demand for related products and services will increase proportionately.  In the future, if the demand for our products and services proves to be more insensitive to lower sequencing costs than we expect, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected.. We depend on third-party manufacturers and suppliers for some of our products, or sub-assemblies, components, and materials used in our products, and if shipments from these manufacturers or suppliers are delayed or interrupted, or if the quality of the products, components, or materials supplied do not meet our requirements, we may not be able to launch, manufacture, or ship our products in a timely manner, or at all.. The complex nature of our products requires customized, precision-manufactured sub-assemblies, components, and materials that currently are available from a limited number of sources, and, in the case of some sub-assemblies, components, and materials, from only a single source.  If deliveries from these vendors are delayed or interrupted for any reason, or if we are otherwise unable to secure a sufficient supply, we may not be able to obtain these sub-assemblies, components, or materials on a timely basis or in sufficient quantities or at satisfactory qualities, or at all, in order to meet demand for our products.  We may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, in whole or in part, or develop these capabilities internally, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, in sufficient quantities, or on commercially reasonable terms.  In addition, the lead time needed to establish a relationship with a new supplier can be lengthy, and we may experience delays in meeting demand in the event we must switch to a new supplier.  The time and effort required to qualify a new supplier could result in additional costs, diversion of resources,. 12. Table of Contents. or reduced manufacturing yields, any of which would negatively impact our operating results.  Accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs or at all.  In addition, the manufacture or shipment of our products may be delayed or interrupted if the quality of the products, sub-assemblies, components, or materials supplied by our vendors does not meet our requirements.  Current or future social and environmental regulations or critical issues, such as those relating to the sourcing of conflict minerals from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or the need to eliminate environmentally sensitive materials from our products, could restrict the supply of components and materials used in production or increase our costs.  Any delay or interruption to our manufacturing process or in shipping our products could result in lost revenue, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. If defects are discovered in our products, we may incur additional unforeseen costs, our products may be subject to recalls, customers may not purchase our products, our reputation may suffer, and ultimately our sales and operating earnings could be negatively impacted.. Our products incorporate complex, precision-manufactured mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components, and fluidics, as well as computer software, any of which may contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced.  In the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products.  In addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment.  Defects or errors in our products may discourage customers from purchasing our products.  The costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating margins.  Identifying the root cause of quality issues, particularly those affecting reagents and third-party components, may be difficult, which increases the time needed to address quality issues as they arise, and increases the risk that similar problems could recur.  Because our products are designed to be used to perform complex genomic analysis, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects.  If we do not meet applicable regulatory or quality standards, our products may be subject to recall, and, under certain circumstances, we may be required to notify applicable regulatory authorities about a recall.  If our products are subject to recall or shipment holds, our reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.. As we develop, market, or sell diagnostic tests, we may encounter delays in receipt, or limits in the amount, of reimbursement approvals and public health funding, which will impact our ability to grow revenues in the healthcare market.. Physicians and patients may not order diagnostic tests that we develop, market, sell, or enable such as our prenatal tests, unless third-party payors, such as managed care organizations as well as government payors such as Medicare and Medicaid and governmental payors outside of the United States, pay a substantial portion of the test price.  Third-party payors are often reluctant to reimburse healthcare providers for the use of medical tests that involve new technologies or provide novel diagnostic information.  In addition, third-party payors are increasingly limiting reimbursement coverage for medical diagnostic products and, in many instances, are exerting pressure on diagnostic product suppliers to reduce their prices.  Reimbursement by a payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor's determination that tests using our technologies are:. • not experimental or investigational;. • medically necessary;. • appropriate for the specific patient;. • cost-effective;. • supported by peer-reviewed publications; and. • included in clinical practice guidelines.. Since each third-party payor often makes reimbursement decisions on an individual patient basis, obtaining such approvals is a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical data supporting the clinical benefits of each of our products.  As a result, there can be no assurance that reimbursement approvals will be obtained.  This process can delay the broad market introduction of new products, and could have a negative effect on our results of operations.  As a result, third-party reimbursement may not be consistent or financially adequate to cover the cost of diagnostic products that we develop, market, or sell.  This could limit our ability to sell our products or cause us to reduce prices, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. Even if our tests are being reimbursed, third-party payors may withdraw their coverage policies, cancel their contracts with our customers at any time, review and adjust the rate of reimbursement, require co-payments from patients, or stop paying for our tests, which would reduce our revenues.  In addition, insurers, including managed care organizations as well as government payors such as Medicare and Medicaid, have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization, and delivery of healthcare services.  These measures have resulted in reduced payment rates and decreased utilization for the clinical laboratory industry.  Reductions in the reimbursement rate of payors may occur in the future.  Reductions in the prices at which our tests are reimbursed could have a negative impact on our results of operations.. Litigation, other proceedings, or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services.. Our success depends in part on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties.  Third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization.  As we enter new markets or introduce new products, we expect that competitors will likely claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful competition.  In addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents.  We could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims.  Any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in defending ourselves against these claims could have an adverse impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate to the actual impact of the ruling itself.  Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to develop further, commercialize, or sell products or services, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us.  In the event of a successful infringement claim against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties or be prohibited from selling certain products or services.  In addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all.  We could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins and earnings per share.  In addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products.  Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products or services could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain profitability.. Reduction or delay in research and development budgets and government funding may adversely affect our revenue.. The timing and amount of revenues from customers that rely on government and academic research funding may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast, and there remains significant uncertainty concerning government and academic research funding worldwide.  Funding for life science research has increased more slowly during the past several years compared to previous years and has declined in some countries.  Government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable.  Other programs, such as defense, entitlement programs, or general efforts to reduce budget deficits could be viewed by governments as a higher priority.  These budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies that fund research and development activities, such as the U.S. National Institute of Health, or NIH.  Past proposals to reduce budget deficits have included reduced NIH and other research and development allocations.  Any shift away from the funding of life sciences research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Our acquisitions expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, and we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of businesses or technologies.. As part of our strategy to develop and identify new products, services, and technologies, we have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions of technologies, products, or businesses.  Acquisitions involve numerous risks and operational, financial, and managerial challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations:. • difficulties in integrating new operations, technologies, products, and personnel;. • lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings;. • difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations;. 14. Table of Contents. • underperformance of any acquired technology, product, or business relative to our expectations and the price we paid;. • negative near-term impacts on financial results after an acquisition, including acquisition-related earnings charges;. • the potential loss of key employees, customers, and strategic partners of acquired companies;. • claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction;. • the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash;. • diversion of management's attention and company resources from existing operations of the business;. • inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies;. • the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies; and. • assumption of, or exposure to, known or unknown contingent liabilities or liabilities that are difficult to identify or accurately quantify.. In addition, the successful integration of acquired businesses requires significant efforts and expense across all operational areas, including sales and marketing, research and development, manufacturing, finance, legal, and information technologies.  There can be no assurance that any of the acquisitions we make will be successful or will be, or will remain, profitable.  Our failure to successfully address the above risks may prevent us from achieving the anticipated benefits from any acquisition in a reasonable time frame, or at all.. If we are unable to increase our manufacturing or service capacity and develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing or service capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products or services in a timely manner, or at all.. We continue to increase our manufacturing and service capacity to meet the anticipated demand for our products.  Although we have significantly increased our manufacturing and service capacity and we believe we have plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our current business plans, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing and service capabilities, and we may not be able to sufficiently increase our capacity in a timely manner.  For example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facilities and launch new products.  Also, we may not manufacture the right product mix to meet customer demand, especially as we introduce new products.  As a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator, and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline.  Additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions and quality control issues that have temporarily reduced or suspended production of certain products.  Due to the intricate nature of manufacturing complex instruments, consumables, and products that contain DNA and enzymes, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products (or to produce them economically), or prevent us from achieving expected performance levels, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. An interruption in our ability to manufacture our products or an inability to obtain key components or raw materials due to a catastrophic disaster or infrastructure could adversely affect our business.. We currently manufacture in a limited number of locations.  Our manufacturing facilities are located in San Diego and the San Francisco Bay Area in California; Madison, Wisconsin; and Singapore.  These areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, or floods.  If a natural disaster were to damage one of our facilities significantly or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, we may be unable to manufacture our products, provide our services, or develop new products.  In addition, if the capabilities of our suppliers and component manufacturers are limited or stopped, due to disasters, quality, regulatory, or other reasons, it could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products.. Many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed laboratory information management system (LIMS).  Additionally, the decoding process in our array manufacturing requires significant network and. 15. Table of Contents. storage infrastructure.  If either our LIMS system or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis could be adversely impacted and we could be prevented from achieving our expected shipments in any given period.. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals.. Our future success depends upon the continuing services of members of our senior management team and scientific and engineering personnel.  The loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives.  In addition, the continued growth of our business depends on our ability to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, software, engineering, sales, marketing, and technical support.  We compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science and technology companies, universities, and research institutions.  Competition for these individuals, particularly in the San Diego and San Francisco areas, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high.  Moreover, changes in immigration policies, laws and regulations in the United States or other jurisdictions may make it more difficult for us to hire and retain members of management and scientific and engineering personnel.  Failure to attract and retain management and scientific and engineering personnel could prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies.  Additionally, integration of acquired companies and businesses can be disruptive, causing key employees of the acquired business to leave.  Further, we use share-based compensation, including restricted stock units and performance stock units to attract key personnel, incentivize them to remain with us, and align their interests with ours by building long-term stockholder value.  If our stock price decreases, the value of these equity awards decreases and, therefore, reduces a key employee's incentive to stay.. Any inability to effectively protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position.. The proprietary positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences, genomics, forensics, agricultural, and pharmaceutical industries, including our proprietary position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions.  Our success depends to a large extent on our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the United States and other countries.  The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant challenges in establishing and enforcing their proprietary rights outside of the United States.  These challenges can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights outside of the United States.. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets.  Any finding that our patents or applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship or ownership rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all.  Furthermore, as issued patents expire, we may lose some competitive advantage as others develop competing products, and, as a result, we may lose revenue.. In addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and may therefore fail to provide us with any competitive advantage.  We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third-party claims, which would be expensive, and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace.  Furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and technical personnel.  There is also the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies.  In that regard, certain patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents issue, and publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tend to lag behind actual discoveries by several months.. We also rely upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how protection for our confidential and proprietary information, and we have taken security measures to protect this information.  These measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other confidential information.. Our strategic investments and joint ventures may result in losses.. We periodically make strategic investments in various public and private companies with businesses or technologies that may complement our business.  In addition, we periodically form companies, such as Helix, that remain consolidated within our financial statements but receive substantial funding from third-party investors who are granted certain control and. 16. Table of Contents. governance rights.  The market values of these strategic investments may fluctuate due to market conditions and other conditions over which we have no control.  Other-than-temporary declines in the market price and valuations of the securities that we hold in other companies would require us to record losses related to our investment.  This could result in future charges to our earnings.  It is uncertain whether or not we will realize any long-term benefits associated with these strategic investments.. Security breaches, including with respect to cyber-security, and other disruptions could compromise our information, products, and services and expose us to liability, which could cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information (and that of our customers), and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks.  The secure maintenance of this information is important to our operations and business strategy.  Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance, or other disruptions.  As a leader in the field of genetic analysis, we may face cyber-attacks that attempt to penetrate our network security, including our data centers; sabotage or otherwise disable our research, products, and services, including instruments at our customers' sites; misappropriate our or our customers' and partners' proprietary information, which may include personally identifiable information; or cause interruptions of our internal systems and services.  Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen.  Any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, and damage to our reputation.. Our products, if used for the diagnosis of disease, could be subject to government regulation, and the regulatory approval and maintenance process for such products may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain both in timing and in outcome.. Our products are not subject to FDA clearance or approval if they are not intended to be used for the diagnosis, treatment or prevention of disease.  However, as we expand our product line to encompass products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease, such as our FDA-regulated MiSeqDx, certain of our products will become subject to regulation by the FDA, or comparable international agencies, including requirements for regulatory clearance or approval of such products before they can be marketed.  Such regulatory approval processes or clearances may be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain, and our failure to obtain or comply with such approvals and clearances could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results.  In addition, changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products, which may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain FDA or comparable regulatory approval of our products, if required.. Molecular diagnostic products are regulated as medical devices by the FDA and comparable international agencies and may require either clearance from the FDA following the 510(k) pre-market notification process or premarket approval from the FDA, in each case prior to marketing.  Obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals can be expensive and may involve considerable delay.  If we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals for molecular diagnostic products that we develop, we may not be able to launch or successfully commercialize such products in a timely manner, or at all.. In addition, if our products labeled as \"For Research Use Only. Not for use in diagnostic procedures,\" or RUO, are used, or could be used, for the diagnosis of disease, the regulatory requirements related to marketing, selling, and supporting such products could change or be uncertain, even if such use by our customers is without our consent.  If the FDA or other regulatory authorities assert that any of our RUO products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.. If the FDA requires in the future that any of our LDT products be subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.. Certain of our diagnostic products are currently available through laboratories that are certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvements Amendments (CLIA) of 1988.  These products are commonly called \"laboratory developed tests,\" or LDTs.  For a number of years, the FDA has exercised its regulatory enforcement discretion not to regulate LDTs as medical devices if created and used within a single laboratory.  However, the FDA has been reconsidering its enforcement discretion policy and has commented that regulation of LDTs may be warranted because of the growth in the volume and complexity of testing services utilizing LDTs.  In October 2014, the FDA published two draft guidance documents suggesting an approach for registration and listing of laboratories and assays along with a framework for regulation of LDTs by the FDA based on risk to patients rather than whether the LDTs were made by a conventional manufacturer or a single laboratory.  The draft framework. 17. Table of Contents. guidance includes pre-market review for higher-risk LDTs, including many used to guide treatment decisions, as well as companion diagnostics that have entered the market as LDTs.  We cannot predict the nature or extent of the FDA's final guidance or regulation of LDTs, in general, or with respect to our LDTs, in particular.  If the FDA requires in the future that LDT products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.. If product or service liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may face reduced demand for our products and incur significant liabilities.. Our products and services are used for sensitive applications, and we face an inherent risk of exposure to product or service liability claims if our products or services are alleged to have caused harm, resulted in false negatives or false positives, or do not perform in accordance with specifications.  Product liability claims filed against us or against third parties to whom we may have an obligation could be costly and time-consuming to defend and result in substantial damages or reputational risk.  We cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully defend any product or service liability lawsuit brought against us.  Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product or service liability claims may result in:. • decreased demand for our products;. • injury to our reputation;. • increased product liability insurance costs;. • costs of related litigation; and. • substantial monetary awards to plaintiffs.. Although we carry product and service liability insurance, if we become the subject of a successful product or service liability lawsuit, our insurance may not cover all substantial liabilities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Doing business internationally creates operational and financial risks for our business.. Conducting and launching operations on an international scale requires close coordination of activities across multiple jurisdictions and time zones and consumes significant management resources.  If we fail to coordinate and manage these activities effectively, including the risks noted below, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.  We have sales offices located internationally throughout Europe, the Asia-Pacific region, and Brazil, as well as manufacturing facilities in Singapore.  Shipments to customers outside the United States comprised 45%, 46%, and 46% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.. During 2017, a significant portion of our international sales were denominated in foreign currencies while the majority of our purchases of raw materials were denominated in U.S. dollars.  Changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations.  Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we are able sell products in the same market.  Our revenues from international customers may be negatively impacted as increases in the U.S. dollar relative to our international customers local currency could make our products more expensive, impacting our ability to compete.  Our costs of materials from international suppliers may increase if, in order to continue doing business with us, they raise their prices as the value of the U.S. dollar decreases relative to their local currency.  Foreign policies and actions regarding currency valuation could result in actions by the United States and other countries to offset the effects of such fluctuations.  Recent global financial conditions have led to a high level of volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and that level of volatility may continue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. In addition to the foregoing risks, international operations entail the following risks:. • longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the United States;. • longer sales cycles due to the volume of transactions taking place through public tenders;. • challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations;. • tariffs and other trade barriers;. 18. Table of Contents. • unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we sell our products;. • difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and. • significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws.. Additionally, we must comply with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, anti-competition regulations and sanctions imposed by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control and other similar laws and regulations. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our business conduct and on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, our ability to attract and retain employees, our international operations, our business and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies.. We are subject to risks related to taxation in multiple jurisdictions.. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions.  Significant judgments based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required in determining the provision for income taxes.  Our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors, including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in existing tax policies, laws, regulations, or rates, changes in the level of non-deductible expenses (including share-based compensation), location of operations, changes in our future levels of research and development spending, mergers and acquisitions, or the result of examinations by various tax authorities.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken on our tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties.  If material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.. Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period, and we may not be able to sustain operating profitability.. Our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services, the effects of new product launches and related promotions, the timing and availability of our customers' funding, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns.  Given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue.  While we anticipate future growth, there is some uncertainty as to the timing of revenue recognition on a quarterly basis.  This is because a substantial portion of our quarterly revenue is typically recognized in the last month of a quarter and because the pattern for revenue generation during that month is normally not linear, with a concentration of orders in the final weeks of the quarter.  In light of that, our revenue cut-off and recognition procedures, together with our manufacturing and shipping operations, may experience increased pressure and demand during the time period shortly before the end of a fiscal quarter.. A large portion of our expenses are relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment, and personnel.  To meet the anticipated growth in our business, we may incur fixed expenses, such as costs related to facility expansions, before we generate revenue sufficient to fully support such expenses.  In addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly in absolute dollars, and we expect that our research and development and selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the development and launch of new products.  Accordingly, our ability to sustain profitability will depend in part on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses, and if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual or quarterly profitability.  Any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenue.  In addition, non-cash share-based compensation expense and expenses related to prior and future acquisitions are also likely to continue to adversely affect our future profitability.  Due to the possibility of significant fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, particularly from quarter to quarter, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance.  If our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline.. 19. Table of Contents. From time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue.  The timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period-to-period changes in net sales.  As a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue.. We may not be able to convert our order backlog into revenue.. Our backlog consists of orders believed to be firm as of the balance sheet date.  However, we may allow customers to make product substitutions as we launch new products. We may not receive revenue from some of these orders, and the order backlog we report may not be indicative of our future revenue.  Many events can cause an order to be delayed or not completed at all, some of which may be out of our control. If we delay fulfilling customer orders, or if customers reconsider their orders, those customers may seek to cancel or modify their orders with us. Customers may otherwise seek to cancel or delay their orders even if we are prepared to fulfill them. If our orders in backlog do not result in sales, our operating results may suffer.. Disruption of critical information technology systems or material breaches in the security of our systems could have an adverse effect on our operations, business, customer relations, and financial condition.. Information technology (IT) systems help us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our financial statements.  IT systems are used extensively in virtually all aspects of our business, including product manufacturing and supply chain, sales forecast, order fulfillment and billing, customer service, logistics, and management of financial reports and data.  Our success depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our IT systems.  IT systems may be vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, power loss, natural disasters, human acts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, unauthorized access to customer or employee data or company trade secrets, and other attempts to harm our systems.  Certain of our systems are not redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for every eventuality.  Despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, disruption of our operations, which could harm our reputation and financial results.. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper IT infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach.  If our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process, and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast, and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired.  Any such impairment could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results.. As we continuously adjust our work-flow and business practices and add additional functionality to our enterprise resource planning software and other software applications, problems could arise that we have not foreseen, including interruptions in service, loss of data, or reduced functionality.  Such problems could adversely impact our ability to provide quotes, take customer orders, and otherwise run our business in a timely manner.  In addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate and increased visibility into pricing and cost structures, it may be difficult to improve or maximize our profit margins.  As a result, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition.. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment and fair value determinations, inventories, business combinations and intangible asset valuations, and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments.  In particular, accounting rules related to companies that we form together with, or that receive substantial funding from, third-party investors, such as Helix, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments.  Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition.. 20. Table of Contents. Ethical, legal, and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our products or services.. Our products may be used to provide genetic information about humans, agricultural crops, other food sources, and other living organisms.  The information obtained from our products could be used in a variety of applications, which may have underlying ethical, legal, and social concerns regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information, including preimplantation genetic screening of embryos, prenatal genetic testing, genetic engineering or modification of agricultural products, or testing genetic predisposition for certain medical conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure.  Governmental authorities could, for social or other purposes, call for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure.  Similarly, such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests, even if permissible.  These and other ethical, legal, and social concerns about genetic testing may limit market acceptance of our technology for certain applications or reduce the potential markets for our technology, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Conversion of our outstanding convertible notes may result in losses.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $633 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2019, and $517 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due 2021 outstanding.  The notes are convertible into cash, and if applicable, shares of our common stock under certain circumstances, including trading price conditions related to our common stock. Upon conversion, we are required to record a gain or loss for the difference between the fair value of the notes to be extinguished and their corresponding net carrying value.  The fair value of the notes to be extinguished depends on our current incremental borrowing rate.  The net carrying value of our notes has an implicit interest rate of 2.9% with respect to convertible notes due 2019, and 3.5% with respect to convertible notes due 2021.  If our incremental borrowing rate at the time of conversion is lower than the implied interest rate of the notes, we will record a loss in our consolidated statement of income during the period in which the notes are converted.. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws include anti-takeover provisions that may make it difficult for another company to acquire control of us or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock.. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could delay the removal of incumbent directors and could make it more difficult to successfully complete a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving us.  Our Certificate of Incorporation has provisions that give our Board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval.  The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future.  The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock.  In addition, the staggered terms of our board of directors could have the effect of delaying or deferring a change in control.. In addition, certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL), including Section 203 of the DGCL, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of Illumina.  Section 203 of the DGCL provides, with certain exceptions, for waiting periods applicable to business combinations with stockholders owning at least 15% and less than 85% of the voting stock (exclusive of stock held by directors, officers, and employee plans) of a company.. The above factors may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in the control or management of Illumina, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock."
