[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. If any of the risks described below occurs, the Company's business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. The risks described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks not presently known to the Company or that it deems immaterial, may also impair its business or operations.. The Company conducts business internationally, which exposes it to uncertainties and risks that could negatively affect its operations, sales and future growth prospects.. A significant portion of the Company's revenues and gross box-office are generated by customers located outside the United States and Canada. Approximately 65%, 62% and 60% of the Company's revenues were derived outside of the United States and Canada in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. As at December 31, 2017, approximately 90% of IMAX theater systems arrangements in backlog are scheduled to be installed in international markets. The Company's network currently spans 75 different countries, and the Company expects its international operations to continue to account for an increasingly significant portion of its revenues in the future. There are a number of risks associated with operating in international markets that could negatively affect the Company's operations, sales and future growth prospects. These risks include:. <U+0095>   new restrictions on access to markets, both for theater systems and films;. <U+0095>   unusual or burdensome foreign laws or regulatory requirements or unexpected changes to those laws or requirements;. <U+0095>   fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the U.S. dollar and potential currency devaluations;. <U+0095>   new tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargoes and other trade barriers;. <U+0095>   imposition of foreign exchange controls in such foreign jurisdictions;. <U+0095>   dependence on foreign distributors and their sales channels;. <U+0095>   difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;. <U+0095>   local business practices that can present challenges to compliance with applicable anti-corruption and bribery laws;. <U+0095>   difficulties in establishing market-appropriate pricing;. <U+0095>   less accurate and/or less reliable box-office reporting;. <U+0095>   adverse changes in monetary and/or tax policies, and/or difficulties in repatriating cash from foreign jurisdictions (including with respect to China, where approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange is required);. <U+0095>   poor recognition of intellectual property rights;. <U+0095>   difficulties in enforcing contractual rights;. <U+0095>   inflation;. <U+0095>   requirements to provide performance bonds and letters of credit to international customers to secure system component deliveries; and. <U+0095>   political, economic and social instability.. In addition, changes in United States or Canadian foreign policy can present additional risks or uncertainties as the Company continues to expand its international operations.. 15. Table of Contents. The Company faces risks in connection with the continued expansion of its business in China.. At present, Greater China is the Company's second largest market, by revenue. In recent years, the Company's Greater China operations have accounted for an increasingly significant portion of its overall revenues, with nearly 33% of overall revenues generated from the Company's China operations in 2017. As at December 31, 2017, the Company had 544 theaters operating in Greater China with an additional 309 theaters in backlog, which represent 61.9% of the Company's current backlog and which are scheduled to be installed in Greater China by 2022. Of the systems currently scheduled to be installed in Greater China, 47.3% are under joint revenue sharing arrangements, which further increase the Company's ongoing exposure to box office performance in this market.. The China market faces a number of risks, including changes in laws and regulations, currency fluctuations, increased competition and changes in economic conditions, including the risk of an economic downturn or recession, as well as other conditions that may impact the Company's exhibitor and studio partners, as well as consumer spending. Adverse developments in any of these areas could impact the Company's future revenues and cash flows and could cause the Company to fail to achieve anticipated growth. In addition, over the past several years, the growth of screens in Greater China has outpaced IMAX box office growth.. Moreover, certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in China are solely within the control of the Chinese government, and Chinese law regulates both the scope of the Company's continued expansion in China and the business conducted by it within China. For instance, the Chinese government regulates both the number and timing or terms of Hollywood films released to the China market. The Company cannot provide assurance that the Chinese government will continue to permit the release of IMAX films in China or that the timing or number of IMAX releases will be favorable to the Company. There are also uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in China. If the Company were unable to navigate China's regulatory environment, including with respect to its current customs inquiry, or if the Company were unable to enforce its intellectual property or contract rights in China, the Company's business could be adversely impacted.. The success of the IMAX theater network is directly related to the availability and success of IMAX DMR films for which there can be no guarantee.. An important factor affecting the growth and success of the IMAX theater network is the availability and strategic selection of films for IMAX theaters and the box-office performance of such films. The Company itself produces only a small number of such films and, as a result, the Company relies principally on films produced by third party filmmakers and studios, including both Hollywood and local language features converted into the Company's large format using the Company's IMAX DMR technology. In 2017, 60 IMAX DMR films were released by studios to the worldwide IMAX theater network. There is no guarantee that filmmakers and studios will continue to release films to the IMAX theater network, or that the films selected for release to the IMAX theater network will be commercially successful. The Company is directly impacted by the box-office results for the films released to the IMAX network through its joint revenue sharing arrangements as well as through the percentage of the box-office receipts the Company receives from the studios releasing IMAX DMR films, and the Company's continued ability to secure films, find suitable partners for joint revenue share arrangements and to sell IMAX theater systems also depends on the number and commercial success of films released to its network. The commercial success of films released to IMAX theaters depends on a number of factors outside of the Company's control, including whether the film receives critical acclaim, the timing of its release, the success of the marketing efforts of the studio releasing the film, consumer preferences and trends in cinema attendance. Moreover, films can be subject to delays in production or changes in release schedule, which can negatively impact the number, timing and quality of IMAX DMR and IMAX original films released to the IMAX theater network.. In addition, as the Company's international network has expanded, the Company has signed deals with studios in other countries to convert their films to the Company's large format and release them to IMAX theaters. The Company may be unable to select films which will be successful in international markets or may be unsuccessful in selecting the right mix of Hollywood and local DMR films for a particular country or region. Also, conflicts in international release schedules may make it difficult to release every IMAX film in certain markets.. The Company depends principally on commercial movie exhibitors to purchase or lease IMAX theater systems, to supply box-office revenue under joint revenue sharing arrangements and under its sales and sales-type lease agreements and to supply venues in which to exhibit IMAX DMR films. The Company can make no assurances that exhibitors will continue to do any of these things.. The Company is unable to predict the pace at which exhibitors will purchase or lease IMAX theater systems or enter into joint revenue sharing arrangements with the Company, or whether any of the Company's existing exhibitor customers will continue to do any of the foregoing. If exhibitors choose to reduce their levels of expansion, negotiate less favorable economic terms, or decide not to enter into transactions with the Company, the Company's revenues would not increase at an anticipated rate and motion picture studios may be. 16. Table of Contents. less willing to convert their films into the Company's format for exhibition in commercial IMAX theaters. As a result, the Company's future revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Recent consolidation among commercial exhibitors and studios reduces the breadth of the Company's customer base, and could result in a narrower market for the Company's products and reduced negotiating leverage. A deterioration in the Company's relationship with key partners could materially, adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition or results of operation. In addition, an adverse economic impact on a significant customer's business operations could have a corresponding material adverse effect on the Company.. The Company's primary customers are commercial multiplex exhibitors. The commercial exhibition industry has undergone significant consolidation in recent years, with Dalian Wanda's acquisitions of AMC and Hoyts Group in 2012 and 2015, respectively, and AMC's acquisition of Carmike Cinemas and Odeon & UCI Cinemas Group, which includes Nordic Cinema Group, in 2016. The industry continues to consolidate, as evidenced by Cineworld Group's planned acquisition of Regal Entertainment Group. Exhibitor concentration has resulted in individual exhibitor chains constituting a material portion of the Company's network and revenue. For instance, Wanda and AMC continue to be the Company's largest exhibitor customer, representing approximately, 16.4%, 13.5% and 16.0% of the Company's total revenues in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Wanda's current commitment to the Company stands at 359 IMAX theater systems, and Wanda and AMC together represented approximately 40.7% of the commercial network and 30.5% of the Company's backlog as of December 31, 2017. The share of the Company's revenue that is generated by Wanda and AMC is expected to continue to grow as the significant number of Wanda theater systems currently in backlog are opened. No assurance can be given that significant customers such as Wanda and/or AMC will continue to purchase theater systems and/or enter into joint revenue sharing arrangements with the Company and if so, whether contractual terms will be affected. If the Company does business with either Wanda and/or AMC or other large exhibitor chains less frequently or on less favorable terms than currently, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, an adverse economic impact on a significant customer's business operations could have a corresponding material adverse effect on the Company.. The Company also receives revenues from studios releasing IMAX DMR films. Hollywood studios have also experienced recent consolidation, as evidenced by Walt Disney Studios' planned acquisition of certain studio assets from Twenty First Century Fox. Studio consolidation could result in individual studios comprising a greater percentage of the Company's film slate and overall DMR revenue, and could expose the Company to the same risks described above in connection with exhibitor consolidation.. General political, social and economic conditions can affect the Company's business by reducing both revenue generated from existing IMAX theater systems and the demand for new IMAX theater systems.. The Company's success depends in part on general political, social and economic conditions and the willingness of consumers to purchase tickets to IMAX movies. If movie-going becomes less popular globally, the Company's business could be adversely affected. In addition, the Company's operations could be adversely affected if consumers' discretionary income falls as a result of an economic downturn. In recent years, the majority of the Company's revenue has been directly derived from the box-office revenues of its films. Accordingly, a decline in attendance at commercial IMAX theaters could materially and adversely affect several sources of key revenue streams for the Company.. The Company also depends on the sale and lease of IMAX theater systems to commercial movie exhibitors to generate revenue. Commercial movie exhibitors generate revenues from consumer attendance at their theaters, which depends on the willingness of consumers to visit movie theaters and spend discretionary income at movie theaters. In the event of declining box-office and concession revenues, commercial exhibitors may be less willing to invest capital in new IMAX theaters. In addition, a significant portion of theaters in the Company's backlog are expected to be installed in newly built multiplexes. An economic downturn could impact developers' ability to secure financing and complete the buildout of these locations, thereby negatively impacting the Company's ability to grow its theater network.. The Company may experience adverse effects due to exchange rate fluctuations.. A substantial portion of the Company's revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, while a substantial portion of its expenses are denominated in Canadian dollars. The Company also generates revenues in Chinese Yuan Renminbi, Euros and Japanese Yen. While the Company periodically enters into forward contracts to hedge its exposure to exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. and the Canadian dollar, the Company may not be successful in reducing its exposure to these fluctuations. The use of derivative contracts is intended to mitigate or reduce transactional level volatility in the results of foreign operations, but does not completely eliminate volatility. Even in jurisdictions in which the Company does not accept local currency or requires minimum payments in U.S. dollars, significant local currency issues may impact the profitability of the Company's arrangements for the Company's customers, which. 17. Table of Contents. ultimately affect the Company's ability to negotiate cost-effective arrangements and, therefore, the Company's results of operations. In addition, because IMAX films generate box-office in 75 different countries, unfavorable exchange rates between applicable local currencies and the U.S. dollar could affect the Company's reported gross box-office and revenues, further impacting the Company's results of operations.. The introduction of new, competing products and technologies could harm the Company's business.. The out-of-home entertainment industry is very competitive, and the Company faces a number of competitive challenges. According to the National Association of Theater Owners, as at December 31, 2017, there were approximately 42,381 conventional-sized screens in North American multiplexes. The Company faces competition both in the form of technological advances in in-home entertainment as well as those within the theater-going experience. In recent years, for instance, exhibitors and entertainment technology companies have introduced their own branded, large-screen 3D auditoriums or other proprietary theater systems, and in many cases have marketed those auditoriums or theater systems as having the same quality or attributes as an IMAX theater. The Company may continue to face competition in the future from companies in the entertainment industry with new technologies and/or substantially greater capital resources to develop and support them. If the Company is unable to continue to deliver a premium movie-going experience, or if other technologies surpass those of the Company, the Company may be unable to continue to produce theater systems which are premium to, or differentiated from, other theater systems.. As noted above, the Company faces in-home competition from a number of alternative motion picture distribution channels such as home video, pay-per-view, streaming services, video-on-demand, DVD, Internet and syndicated and broadcast television. The Company further competes for the public's leisure time and disposable income with other forms of entertainment, including gaming, sporting events, concerts, live theater, social media and restaurants.. If the Company is unable to continue to produce a differentiated theater experience, consumers may be unwilling to pay the price premiums associated with the cost of IMAX theater tickets and box-office performance of IMAX films may decline. Declining box-office performance of IMAX films could materially and adversely harm the Company's business and prospects.. Failure to respond adequately or in a timely fashion to changes and advancements in digital technology could negatively affect the Company's business.. There have been a number of advancements in the digital cinema field in recent years. In order to keep pace with these changes and in order to continue to provide an experience which is premium to and differentiated from conventional cinema experiences, the Company has made, and expects to continue to make, significant investments in digital technology in the form of research and development and the acquisition of third party intellectual property and/or proprietary technology. Recently, the Company has made significant investments in laser technology as part of the development of its next-generation laser-based digital projection system, which it began rolling out to the largest theaters in the IMAX network at the end of 2014. The Company continued research and development throughout 2017 to support the further development of an updated laser-based digital projection system, which is targeted primarily for screens in commercial multiplexes. The process of developing new technologies is inherently uncertain and subject to certain factors that are outside of the Company's control, including reliance on third party partners and suppliers, and the Company can provide no assurance its investments will result in commercially viable advancements to the Company's existing products or in commercially successful new products, or that any such advancements or products will improve upon existing technology or will be developed within the timeframe expected.. The Company is undertaking new lines of business and these new business initiatives may not be successful.. The Company is undertaking new lines of business. These initiatives represent new areas of growth for the Company and could include the offering of new products and services that may not be accepted by the market. The Company has recently explored initiatives in the fields of location-based virtual reality, original content and in-home entertainment technology, all of which are intensively competitive businesses and which are dependent on consumer demand, over which the Company has no control. If any new business in which the Company invests or attempts to develop does not progress as planned, the Company may be adversely affected by investment expenses that have not led to the anticipated results, by write-downs of its equity investments, by the distraction of management from its core business or by damage to its brand or reputation.. In addition, these initiatives may involve the formation of joint ventures and business alliances. While the Company seeks to employ the optimal structure for each such business alliance, the alliance may require a high level of cooperation with and reliance on the Company's partners and there is a possibility that the Company may have disagreements with its relevant partner with respect to financing, technological management, product development, management strategies or otherwise. Any such disagreement may cause. 18. Table of Contents. the joint venture or business alliance to be terminated.. The Company may not be able to adequately protect its intellectual property, and competitors could misappropriate its technology or brand, which could weaken its competitive position.. The Company depends on its proprietary knowledge regarding IMAX theater systems and digital and film technology. The Company relies principally upon a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, restrictions on disclosures and contractual provisions to protect its proprietary and intellectual property rights. These laws and procedures may not be adequate to prevent unauthorized parties from attempting to copy or otherwise obtain the Company's processes and technology or deter others from developing similar processes or technology, which could weaken the Company's competitive position and require the Company to incur costs to secure enforcement of its intellectual property rights. The protection provided to the Company's proprietary technology by the laws of foreign jurisdictions may not protect it as fully as the laws of Canada or the United States. The lack of protection afforded to intellectual property rights in certain international jurisdictions may be increasingly problematic given the extent to which future growth of the Company is anticipated to come from foreign jurisdictions. Finally, some of the underlying technologies of the Company's products and system components are not covered by patents or patent applications.. The Company owns or licenses patents issued and patent applications pending, including those covering its digital projector, digital conversion technology and laser illumination technology. The Company's patents are filed in the United States, often with corresponding patents or filed applications in other jurisdictions, such as Canada, China, Belgium, Japan, France, Germany and the United Kingdom. The patent applications pending may not be issued or the patents may not provide the Company with any competitive advantage. The patent applications may also be challenged by third parties. Several of the Company's issued patents for improvements to IMAX projectors, IMAX 3D Dome and sound system components expire between 2021 and 2034. Any claims or litigation initiated by the Company to protect its proprietary technology could be time consuming, costly and divert the attention of its technical and management resources.. The IMAX brand stands for the highest quality and most immersive motion picture entertainment. Protecting the IMAX brand is a critical element in maintaining the Company's relationships with studios and its exhibitor clients. Though the Company relies on a combination of trademark and copyright law as well as its contractual provisions to protect the IMAX brand, those protections may not be adequate to prevent erosion of the brand over time, particularly in foreign jurisdictions. Erosion of the brand could threaten the demand for the Company's products and services and impair its ability to grow future revenue streams.. The Company faces cyber-security and similar risks, which could result in the disclosure, theft or loss of confidential or other proprietary information, including intellectual property; damage to the Company's brand and reputation; legal exposure and financial losses.. The nature of the Company's business involves access to and storage of confidential and proprietary content and other information, including intellectual property, as well as information regarding the Company's customers, employees, licensees and suppliers. Although the Company maintains robust procedures to safeguard such content and information, as well as a cyber-security insurance policy, the Company's information technology systems could be penetrated by internal or external parties' intent on extracting information, corrupting information, stealing intellectual property or trade secrets, or disrupting business processes. Information security risks have increased in recent years because of the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. It is possible that computer hackers could compromise the Company's security measures or the security measures of parties with whom the Company does business, and thereby obtain the confidential or proprietary information of the Company or its customers, employees, licensees and suppliers. Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in a disruption of the Company's operations, the theft, unauthorized use or publication of the Company's intellectual property and other proprietary information, a reduction of the revenues the Company is able to generate from its operations, damage to the Company's brand and reputation, a loss of confidence in the security of the Company's business and products, and significant legal and financial exposure, each of which could potentially have an adverse effect on the Company's business.. The Company's revenues from existing customers are derived in part from financial reporting provided by its customers, which may be inaccurate or incomplete, resulting in lost or delayed revenues.. The Company's revenue under its joint revenue sharing arrangements, a portion of the Company's payments under lease or sales arrangements and its film distribution fees are based upon financial reporting provided by its customers. If such reporting is inaccurate, incomplete or withheld, the Company's ability to receive the appropriate payments in a timely fashion that are due to it may be impaired. The Company's contractual ability to audit IMAX theaters may not rectify payments lost or delayed as a result of customers not fulfilling their contractual obligations with respect to financial reporting.. 19. Table of Contents. There is collection risk associated with payments to be received over the terms of the Company's theater system agreements.. The Company is dependent in part on the viability of its exhibitors for collections under long-term leases, sales financing agreements and joint revenue sharing arrangements. Exhibitors or other operators may experience financial difficulties that could cause them to be unable to fulfill their contractual payment obligations to the Company. As a result, the Company's future revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected.. The Company may not convert all of its backlog into revenue and cash flows.. At December 31, 2017, the Company's sales backlog included 499 theater systems, consisting of 162 systems under sales arrangements and 337 theater systems under joint revenue sharing arrangements. The Company lists signed contracts for theater systems for which revenue has not been recognized as sales backlog prior to the time of revenue recognition. The total value of the sales backlog represents all signed theater system sale or lease agreements that are expected to be recognized as revenue in the future and includes initial fees along with the present value of fixed minimum ongoing fees due over the term, but excludes contingent fees in excess of fixed minimum ongoing fees that might be received in the future and maintenance and extended warranty fees. Notwithstanding the legal obligation to do so, not all of the Company's customers with which it has signed contracts may accept delivery of theater systems that are included in the Company's backlog. This could adversely affect the Company's future revenues and cash flows. In addition, customers with theater system obligations in backlog sometimes request that the Company agree to modify or reduce such obligations, which the Company has agreed to in the past under certain circumstances. Customer requested delays in the installation of theater systems in backlog remain a recurring and unpredictable part of the Company's business.. The Company's operating results and cash flow can vary substantially from period to period and could increase the volatility of its share price.. The Company's operating results and cash flow can fluctuate substantially from period to period. In particular, fluctuations in theater system installations and gross box-office performance of IMAX DMR content can materially affect operating results. Factors that have affected the Company's operating results and cash flow in the past, and are likely to affect its operating results and cash flow in the future, include, among other things:. <U+0095>   the timing of signing and installation of new theater systems (particularly for installations in newly-built multiplexes, which can result in delays that are beyond the Company's control);. <U+0095>   the timing and commercial success of films distributed to the Company's theater network;. <U+0095>   the demand for, and acceptance of, its products and services;. <U+0095>   the recognition of revenue of sales and sales-type leases;. <U+0095>   the classification of leases as sales-type versus operating leases;. <U+0095>   the volume of orders received and that can be filled in the quarter;. <U+0095>   the level of its sales backlog;. <U+0095>   the signing of film distribution agreements;. <U+0095>   the financial performance of IMAX theaters operated by the Company's customers and by the Company;. <U+0095>   financial difficulties faced by customers, particularly customers in the commercial exhibition industry;. <U+0095>   the magnitude and timing of spending in relation to the Company's research and development efforts and related investments as well as new business initiatives; and. <U+0095>   the number and timing of joint revenue sharing arrangement installations, related capital expenditures and timing of related cash receipts.. 20. Table of Contents. Most of the Company's operating expenses are fixed in the short term. The Company may be unable to rapidly adjust its spending to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in sales, joint revenue sharing arrangements revenue or IMAX DMR revenue which would harm operating results for a particular period, although the results of any particular period are not necessarily indicative of its results for any period.. The Company's theater system revenue can vary significantly from its cash flows under theater system sales or lease agreements.. The Company's theater systems revenue can vary significantly from the associated cash flows. The Company often provides financing to customers for theater systems on a long-term basis through long-term leases or notes receivables. The terms of leases or notes receivable are typically 10 years. The Company's sale and lease-type agreements typically provide for three major sources of cash flow related to theater systems:. <U+0095>   initial fees, which are paid in installments generally commencing upon the signing of the agreement until installation of the theater systems;. <U+0095>   ongoing fees, which are paid monthly after all theater systems have been installed and are generally equal to the greater of a fixed minimum amount per annum and a percentage of box-office receipts; and. <U+0095>   ongoing annual maintenance and extended warranty fees, which are generally payable commencing in the second year of theater operations.. Initial fees generally make up the vast majority of cash received under theater system sales or lease agreements for a theater arrangement.. For sales and sales-type leases, the revenue recorded is generally equal to the sum of initial fees and the present value of minimum ongoing fees due under the agreement. Cash received from initial fees in advance of meeting the revenue recognition criteria for the theater systems is recorded as deferred revenue. Contingent fees are recognized as they are reported by the theaters after annual minimum fixed fees are exceeded.. Leases that do not transfer substantially all of the benefits and risks of ownership to the customer are classified as operating leases. For these leases, initial fees and minimum fixed ongoing fees are recognized as revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Contingent fees are recognized as they are reported by the theaters after annual minimum fixed fees are exceeded.. As a result of the above, the revenue set forth in the Company's financial statements does not necessarily correlate with the Company's cash flow or cash position. Revenues include the present value of future contracted cash payments and there is no guarantee that the Company will receive such payments under its lease and sale agreements if its customers default on their payment obligations.. The Company's stock price has historically been volatile and declines in market price, including as a result a market downturn, may negatively affect its ability to raise capital, issue debt, secure customer business and retain employees.. The Company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\") and its publicly traded shares have in the past experienced, and may continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility could reduce the market price of its common stock, regardless of the Company's operating performance. A decline in the capital markets generally, or an adjustment in the market price or trading volumes of the Company's publicly traded securities, may negatively affect its ability to raise capital, issue debt, secure customer business or retain employees. These factors, as well as general economic and geopolitical conditions, may have a material adverse effect on the market price of the Company's publicly traded securities.. The credit agreement governing the Company's senior secured credit facility contains significant restrictions that limit its operating and financial flexibility.. The credit agreement governing the Company's senior secured credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit its ability to:. <U+0095>   incur additional indebtedness;. 21. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   pay dividends and make distributions;. <U+0095>   repurchase stock;. <U+0095>   make certain investments;. <U+0095>   transfer or sell assets;. <U+0095>   create liens;. <U+0095>   enter into transactions with affiliates;. <U+0095>   issue or sell stock of subsidiaries;. <U+0095>   create dividend or other payment restrictions affecting restricted subsidiaries; and. <U+0095>   merge, consolidate, amalgamate or sell all or substantially all of its assets to another person.. These restrictive covenants impose operating and financial restrictions on the Company that limit the Company's ability to engage in acts that may be in the Company's long-term best interests.. The Company is subject to impairment losses on its film assets.. The Company amortizes its film assets, including IMAX DMR costs capitalized using the individual film forecast method, whereby the costs of film assets are amortized and participation costs are accrued for each film in the ratio of revenues earned in the current period to management's estimate of total revenues ultimately expected to be received for that title. Management regularly reviews, and revises when necessary, its estimates of ultimate revenues on a title-by-title basis, which may result in a change in the rate of amortization of the film assets and write-downs or impairments of film assets. Results of operations in future years include the amortization of the Company's film assets and may be significantly affected by periodic adjustments in amortization rates.. The Company is subject to impairment losses on its inventories.. The Company records write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory based upon current estimates of future events and conditions, including the anticipated installation dates for the current backlog of theater system contracts, technological developments, signings in negotiation and anticipated market acceptance of the Company's current and pending theater systems.. If the Company's goodwill or long-lived assets become impaired the Company may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.. Under United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (\"U.S. GAAP\"), the Company reviews its long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be qualitatively assessed at least annually and when events or changes in circumstances arise or can be quantitatively tested for impairment. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances include (but are not limited to) a decline in stock price and market capitalization, declines in future cash flows, and slower growth rates in the Company's industry. The Company may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in its financial statements during the period in which any impairment of its goodwill or long-lived assets is determined.. Changes in accounting and changes in management's estimates may affect the Company's reported earnings and operating income.. U.S. GAAP and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations for many aspects of the Company's business, such as revenue recognition, film accounting, accounting for pensions and other postretirement benefits, accounting for income taxes, and treatment of goodwill or long-lived assets, are highly complex and involve many subjective judgments. Changes in these rules, their interpretation, management's estimates, or changes in the Company's products or business could significantly change its reported future earnings and operating income and could add significant volatility to those measures, without a comparable underlying change in cash flow from operations. See \"Critical Accounting Policies\" in Item 7.. 22. Table of Contents. The Company may not fully realize the projected cost savings and benefits from its restructuring initiative.. The Company recently implemented a cost reduction plan that included staff reductions and the consolidation of certain leased facilities. As part of its cost reduction plan, the Company eliminated approximately 100 full-time positions, including positions at IMAX China Holding, Inc., equal to roughly 14% of the Company's full-time global workforce. Although the Company expects the restructuring plan to result in cost savings aimed at increasing profitability, operating leverage and free cash flow, there can be no assurances that these benefits will be realized to the full extent projected. If the Company does not achieve projected savings as a result of these initiatives, or incurs higher than expected or unanticipated costs in implementing these initiatives, its business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Enactment of the Tax Act could have a negative effect on the Company or its shareholders.. On December 20, 2017, the U.S. Congress passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) (the \"Tax Act\"), and on December 22, 2017, President Trump signed the Tax Act into law. The Tax Act makes significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax rules applicable to both individuals and entities, including corporations. This tax legislation reduced the U.S. statutory corporate tax rate and made other changes that could have an impact on our overall U.S. federal tax liability in a given period. The tax legislation also included a number of provisions that limit or eliminate various deductions, including interest expense, performance-based compensation for certain executives and the domestic production activities deduction, among others, that could affect the Company's U.S. federal income tax position. The Company is continuing to evaluate the overall impact of this tax legislation on its operations and U.S. federal income tax position. See Note 9 (Income Taxes) to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 for further discussion of the Tax Act. There can be no assurance that changes in tax laws or regulations, both within the U.S. and the other jurisdictions in which the Company operates, will not materially and adversely affect the effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, changes in tax laws and regulations that impact the Company's customers and counterparties or the economy generally may also impact its financial condition and results of operations. There is some uncertainty as to the impact of the Tax Act on the Company or an investment in the Company's shares. Investors should consult with their tax advisors with respect to the status of U.S. tax reform and its potential effect on an investment in the Company's securities.. The Company relies on its key personnel, and the loss of one or more of those personnel could harm its ability to carry out its business strategy.. The Company's operations and prospects depend in large part on the performance and continued service of its senior management team. The Company may not find qualified replacements for any of these individuals if their services are no longer available. The loss of the services of one or more members of the Company's senior management team could adversely affect its ability to effectively pursue its business strategy.. Because the Company is incorporated in Canada, it may be difficult for plaintiffs to enforce against the Company liabilities based solely upon U.S. federal securities laws.. The Company is incorporated under the federal laws of Canada, some of its directors and officers are residents of Canada and a substantial portion of its assets and the assets of such directors and officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for U.S. plaintiffs to effect service within the United States upon those directors or officers who are not residents of the United States, or to realize against them or the Company in the United States upon judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon the civil liability under the U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult for plaintiffs to bring an original action outside of the United States against the Company to enforce liabilities based solely on U.S. federal securities laws."
