[1] "Item 1A. Risk factors. Imperial's financial and operating results are subject to a variety of risks inherent in oil, gas and petrochemical businesses. Many of these risk factors are not within Imperial's control and could adversely affect Imperial's business, financial and operating results, or financial position. These risk factors include:. Volatility of commodity prices. The company's operations and earnings may be significantly affected by changes in oil, natural gas and petrochemical prices, and by changes in margins on refined products and petrochemicals. Crude oil, natural gas, petrochemical and product prices and margins depend on local, regional, and global events or conditions that affect supply and demand for the relevant commodity. Commodity prices have been volatile, and the company expects that volatility to continue. Any material decline in crude oil prices could have a material adverse effect on Imperial's Upstream operations, financial position, proved reserves and the amount spent to develop reserves.. Demand related factors which could impact Imperial's results include economic conditions, where periods of low or negative economic growth will typically have an adverse impact on results; technological improvements in energy efficiency; seasonal weather patterns, which affect the demand for energy associated with heating and cooling; increased competitiveness of alternative energy sources; new product quality regulations; and changes in technology or consumer preferences that affect the market for petroleum products, such as technological advances in energy storage that make wind and solar more competitive for power generation or increased consumer demand for alternative fueled or electric vehicles.. Commodity prices and margins also vary depending on a number of factors affecting supply. For example, increased supply from the development of new oil and gas supply sources and technologies to enhance recovery from existing sources tend to reduce commodity prices to the extent such supply increases are not offset by commensurate growth in demand. Similarly, increases in industry refining or petrochemical manufacturing capacity relative to demand tend to reduce margins on affected products. World oil, gas and petrochemical supply levels can also be affected by factors that reduce available supplies, such as adherence by member countries to Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) production quotas and the occurrence of wars, hostile actions, natural disasters, disruptions in competitors' operations, or unexpected pipeline or rail constraints that may disrupt supplies. Technological change can also alter the relative costs for competitors to find, produce, and refine oil and gas and to manufacture petrochemicals.. A significant portion of the company's production is bitumen, which is blended with diluent to create a marketable heavy crude oil. The market price for western Canadian heavy crude oil is typically lower than light and medium grades of oil principally due to the higher transportation and refining costs. Heavy crude oil may also be subject to limits on transportation capacity to markets to a larger extent than light crude oil. Future crude price differentials are uncertain and increases in the heavy crude oil discounts could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. Increases to diluent prices, relative to heavy crude oil prices, could also have an adverse effect on the company's business.. Government and political factors. Imperial's results can be adversely impacted by political or regulatory developments affecting operations. Changes in government policy or regulations, third party opposition to company or infrastructure projects, and duration of regulatory reviews could impact Imperial's existing operations and planned projects. For example, increases in taxes or government royalty rates (including retroactive claims), changes in trade policies and agreements, changes in environmental regulations or other laws that increase the cost of compliance or reduce or delay available business opportunities, increasing and expanding stakeholder consultation (including Indigenous stakeholders) and adoption of regulations mandating efficiency standards, the use of alternative fuels or uncompetitive fuel components could affect the company's operations.. 19. Table of Contents. Environmental risks. All phases of the Upstream, Downstream and Chemical businesses are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of Canadian federal, provincial, territorial and municipal laws and regulations, as well as international conventions (collectively, \"environmental legislation\").. Environmental legislation imposes, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances into the environment. As well, environmental regulations are imposed on the qualities and compositions of the products sold and imported. Environmental legislation also requires that wells, facility sites and other properties associated with the company's operations be operated, maintained, monitored, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. In addition, certain types of operations, including exploration and development projects and significant changes to certain existing projects, may require the submission and approval of environmental impact assessments. Compliance with environmental legislation can require significant expenditures and failure to comply with environmental legislation may result in the cessation of operations, imposition of fines and penalties and liability for clean-up costs and damages.. The costs of complying with environmental legislation in the future could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition or results of operations. The company anticipates that changes in environmental legislation may require, among other things, reductions in emissions from its operations to the air and water and may result in increased capital expenditures. Changes in environmental legislation (including, but not limited to, application of regulations related to air, water, land and biodiversity) may increase the cost of compliance or reduce or delay available business opportunities. Future changes in environmental legislation could occur and result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability, and increased capital expenditures and operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition or results of operations.. There are operational risks inherent in oil and gas exploration and production activities, as well as the potential to incur substantial financial liabilities, if those risks are not effectively managed. The ability to insure such risks is limited by the capacity of the applicable insurance markets, which may not be sufficient to cover the likely cost of a major adverse operating event. Accordingly, the company's primary focus is on prevention, including through its rigorous operations integrity management system. The company's future results will depend on the continued effectiveness of these efforts.. Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions. Due to concern over the risks of climate change, a number of provinces and the Government of Canada have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce GHG emissions. These include adoption of carbon emissions pricing, cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, emissions limits, increased efficiency standards, low carbon fuel standards and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. These requirements could make Imperial's products more expensive, reduce or delay available business opportunities, reduce demand for hydrocarbons, and shift hydrocarbon demand toward lower GHG emission energy sources. Current and pending GHG regulations or policies may also increase compliance and abatement costs, lengthen project evaluation and implementation times, and affect operations. Increased costs may not be recoverable in the market place and could reduce the global competitiveness of the company's crude oil, natural gas and refined products.. Currency. Prices for commodities produced by the company are commonly benchmarked in U.S. dollars. The majority of Imperial's sales and purchases are related to these industry U.S. dollar benchmarks. As the company records and reports its financial results in Canadian dollars, to the extent that the value of the Canadian dollar strengthens, the company's reported earnings will be negatively affected. The company does not currently make use of derivative instruments to offset exposures associated with foreign currency.. 20. Table of Contents. Other business risks. Imperial is reliant on a number of key chemicals, catalysts and third party service providers, including input and output commodity transportation (pipelines, rail, trucking, marine) and utilities providing services, including electricity and water, to various company operations. The lack of availability and capacity, and proximity of pipeline facilities and railcars could negatively impact Imperial's ability to produce at capacity levels. Transportation disruptions could adversely affect the company's price realizations, refining operations and sales volumes, as well as potentially limit the ability to deliver production to market. A third party utilities outage could have an adverse impact on the company's operations and ability to produce.. Management effectiveness. In addition to external economic and political factors, Imperial's future business results also depend on the company's ability to manage successfully those factors that are at least in part within its control. The extent to which Imperial manages these factors will impact its performance relative to competition. For projects in which the company is not the operator, Imperial depends on the management effectiveness of one or more co-venturers whom the company does not control.. Project management. The company's results are affected by its ability to develop and operate projects and facilities as planned. The company's results will, therefore, be affected by events or conditions that affect the advancement, operation, cost or results of such projects or facilities. These risks include the company's ability to obtain the necessary environmental and other regulatory approvals; changes in regulations; changes in resources and operating costs including the availability and cost of materials, equipment and qualified personnel; the impact of general economic, business and market conditions; and the occurrence of unforeseen technical difficulties.. Operational efficiency. An important component of Imperial's competitive performance, especially given the commodity based nature of Imperial's business, is the ability to operate efficiently, including the company's ability to manage expenses and improve production yields on an ongoing basis. This requires continuous management focus, including technology improvements, cost control, productivity enhancements and regular reappraisal of the company's asset portfolio. The company's operations and results also depend on key personnel and subject matter expertise, the recruitment, development and retention of high caliber employees, and the availability of skilled labour.. Research and development. Imperial relies upon the research and development organizations of the company and ExxonMobil, with whom the company conducts shared research. To maintain the company's competitive position, especially in light of the technological nature of Imperial's business and the need for continuous efficiency improvement, research and development organizations must be successful and able to adapt to a changing market and policy environment, including developing technologies to help reduce GHG emissions.. Safety, business controls and environmental risk management. The scope and nature of the company's operations present a variety of significant hazards and risks, including operational hazards and risks such as explosions, fires, pipeline ruptures and crude oil spills. Imperial's operations are also subject to the additional hazards of pollution, releases of toxic gas and environmental hazards and risks, such as severe weather, and geological events. The company's results depend on management's ability to minimize these inherent risks, to effectively control business activities and to minimize the potential for human error. Imperial applies rigorous management systems, including a combined program of effective operations integrity management, ongoing upgrades, key equipment replacements, and comprehensive inspection and surveillance. The company also maintains a disciplined framework of internal controls and applies a controls management system for monitoring compliance with this framework. Substantial liabilities and other adverse impacts could result if the company's management systems and controls do not function as intended.. 21. Table of Contents. Cybersecurity. Imperial is regularly subject to attempted cybersecurity disruptions from a variety of threat actors. If systems for protecting against cybersecurity disruptions prove to be insufficient, the company, customers, employees or third parties could be adversely affected. Such cybersecurity disruptions could cause physical harm to people or the environment; damage or destroy assets; compromise business systems; result in proprietary information being altered, lost or stolen; result in employee, customer or third party information being compromised; or otherwise disrupt business operations. Imperial could incur significant costs to remedy the effects of such a cybersecurity disruption, as well as in connection with resulting regulatory actions and litigation.. Preparedness. The company's operations may be disrupted by severe weather events, natural disasters, human error, and similar events. Imperial's ability to mitigate the adverse impacts of these events depends in part upon the effectiveness of its rigorous disaster preparedness and response planning, as well as business continuity planning.. Reputation. Imperial's reputation is an important corporate asset. An operating incident, significant cybersecurity disruption or other adverse events, such as those described in Item 1A, may have a negative impact on Imperial's reputation, which in turn could make it more difficult for Imperial to compete successfully for new opportunities, obtain necessary regulatory approvals, or could reduce consumer demand for the company's branded products.. Reserves. The company's future production and cash flows from bitumen, synthetic oil, liquids and natural gas reserves are highly dependent upon the company's success in exploiting its current reserve base. To maintain production and cash flows, the company must continue to replace produced reserves as they are depleted, which can be accomplished through exploration discovery of new resources, appraisal and investments in developing discovered resources, or acquisition of reserves. To the extent cash flows from operations are insufficient to fund capital expenditures and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable, the company's ability to make the necessary capital investments to maintain and expand oil and natural gas reserves will be adversely impacted. In addition, the company may be unable to find and develop or acquire additional reserves to replace oil and natural gas production at acceptable costs.. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows involve many uncertainties, including factors beyond the company's control. Key factors with uncertainty include: geological and engineering estimates; the assumed effects of regulation or changes to regulation by government agencies including royalty frameworks; future commodity prices; and operating costs. Actual production, revenues, taxes, development costs, abandonment costs, and operating expenditures with respect to reserves will likely vary from such estimates, and such variances could be material."
