[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. We face many challenges and risks in the industry in which we operate.  You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes, and the documents and other information incorporated by reference herein, before investing in our shares.  The risks and uncertainties described are not the only ones we face.  Additional risk factors not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect us.  If any of these risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  In that case, the trading price of our shares could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. Significant declines in oil and natural gas prices could continue and adversely affect demand for contract drilling services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Oil prices began to decline in the second half of 2014 and declined further during 2015 and 2016.  The closing price of oil was as high as $106.06 per barrel during the third quarter of 2014, was $37.13 per barrel on December 31, 2015 and reached a low of $26.19 on February 11, 2016 (WTI spot price as reported by the EIA). Similarly, natural gas prices (as measured at Henry Hub) declined from an average of $4.37 per MMBtu in 2014, to $2.62 per MMBtu in 2015, $2.52 per MMBtu in 2016. As a result, our industry experienced an exceptional downturn and market conditions have only begun to stabilize and slowly recover.. Although crude oil prices recovered to the $45 to $55 per barrel range, and natural gas prices at Henry Hub averaged $2.99 per MMBtu in 2017, there are no indications at this time that oil and natural gas prices and rig counts will recover to their previous highs experienced in 2014. We believe the current stabilization in market conditions is predicated on oil prices remaining in the $45 to $55 per barrel or higher range, and if oil prices were to fall below these levels for any sustainable period, demand and pricing for our contract drilling services could decline and have a material adverse affect on our operations and financial condition.. In addition, we currently finance our capital expenditures and operations pursuant to a committed $85.0 million revolving line of credit.  A significant portion of our borrowing base is tied to the appraised value of our drilling rigs, which value may decline if market conditions deteriorate further.  A significant decline in our borrowing base could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.  Our amended and restated credit agreement (the \"Credit Facility) also contains certain restrictive covenants, including a leverage and fixed charge ratio covenant based upon the cash flows of the company, and a minimum utilization covenant.  Thus, a significant reduction in our cash flows as a result of the decline in demand for our products and services, or significant decline in our operating rig count due to an inability to recontract rigs could reduce or limit the level of funds we are able to borrow under our existing Credit Facility or cause us to violate one or more of our restrictive covenants, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. We derive all our revenues from companies in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry, a historically cyclical industry with levels of activity that are significantly affected by the levels and volatility in oil and natural gas prices.. As a provider of land-based contract drilling services, our business depends on the level of exploration and production activity by oil and natural gas companies operating in the United States, and in particular, the regions where we actively market our contract drilling services. The oil and natural gas exploration and production industry is a historically cyclical industry characterized by significant changes in the levels of exploration and development activities. Oil and natural gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in those prices significantly affect the levels of those activities. Worldwide political, regulatory, economic, and military events as well as natural disasters have contributed to oil and natural gas price volatility and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Any prolonged reduction in the overall level of exploration and development activities in the United States and the regions where we market our contract drilling services, whether resulting from changes in oil and natural gas prices or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect us in many ways by negatively impacting:. • our revenues, cash flows and profitability;. • our ability to recontract drilling rigs upon expiration of existing contracts;. • our ability to recontract drilling rigs at profitable dayrates;. • our ability to invest in capital expenditures necessary to maintain our drilling fleet and respond to customer requirements;. • the fair market value of our drilling rig fleet and other assets;. 13. • our ability to obtain additional debt and equity capital required to implement our rig construction and growth strategy, and the cost of that capital; and. • our ability to retain skilled rig personnel whom we need to implement our growth strategy.. Depending on the market prices of oil and natural gas, oil and natural gas exploration and production companies may cancel or curtail their drilling programs and may lower production spending on existing wells, thereby reducing demand for our services. Many factors beyond our control affect oil and natural gas prices, including, but not limited to:. • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas;. • the discovery and development rate of new oil and natural gas reserves, especially shale and other unconventional natural gas resources for which we market our rigs;. • the rate of decline of existing and new oil and natural gas reserves;. • available pipeline and other oil and natural gas transportation capacity;. • the levels of oil and natural gas storage;. • the ability of oil and natural gas exploration and production companies to raise capital;. • economic conditions in the United States and elsewhere;. • actions by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries;. • political instability in the Middle East and other major oil and natural gas producing regions;. • governmental regulations, sanctions and trade restrictions, both domestic and foreign;. • domestic and foreign tax policy;. • weather conditions in the United States;. • the pace adopted by foreign governments for the exploration, development and production of their national reserves;. • the price of foreign imports of oil and natural gas;. • the strength or weakness of the United States dollar;. • the overall supply and demand for oil and natural gas; and. • the development of alternate energy sources and the long-term effects of worldwide energy conservation measures.. As discussed above, oil and natural gas prices have been volatile historically and, we believe, will continue to be so in the future.  We also believe the current stabilization in market conditions for our services is predicated on oil prices remaining in the $45 to $55 per barrel or higher range, and if oil prices were to fall below these levels for any sustainable period, demand and pricing for our contract drilling services could decline and have a material adverse affect on our operations and financial condition.. Oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in these prices, significantly impact the level of worldwide drilling and production services activities. Reduced demand for oil and natural gas generally results in lower prices for these commodities and may impact the economics of planned drilling projects and ongoing production projects, resulting in the curtailment, reduction, delay or postponement of such projects for an indeterminate period of time. When drilling and production activity and spending decline, both dayrates and utilization have also historically declined. Further declines in oil and natural gas prices and the general economy, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth strategy.. In addition, if oil and natural gas prices decline, companies that planned to finance exploration, development or production projects through the capital markets may be forced to curtail, reduce, postpone or delay drilling activities even further, and also may experience an inability to pay suppliers. Adverse conditions in the global economic environment could also impact our vendors' and suppliers' ability to meet obligations to provide materials and services in general. If any of the foregoing were to occur, or if current depressed market conditions continue for a prolonged period of time, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results and our ability to timely and successfully implement our growth strategy.. Any loss of large customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our customer base consists of E&P companies that drill oil and natural gas wells in the United States in the regions where we market our rigs.  As of December 31, 2017, we have rigs operating or earning revenues from six different customers, including one customer who has contracted five of our rigs, and two customers that have contracted three of our rigs.  It is likely that we will continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of customers in the future.  Daywork contracts in the contract drilling industry typically do not obligate those customers to order additional services from the drilling contractor beyond those for which they have currently contracted. If a customer decided not to continue to use our services or to terminate an existing contract, or if there is a change of management or ownership of a customer or a material adverse change in the financial condition of one of our customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows, and financial condition.. 14. If our customers delay paying or fail to pay a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. In most cases, we bill our customers for our services in arrears and are, therefore, subject to our customers delaying or failing to pay our invoices. In weak economic environments, we may experience increased delays and failures due to, among other reasons, a reduction in our customers' cash flow from operations and their access to the credit markets. If our customers delay paying or fail to pay us a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition.. We currently have eleven rigs operating under contracts with terms expiring during 2018.  If we are unable to continue to operate rigs in the spot-market or renew our expiring contracts or continue their operation in the spot-market, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Upon expiration of a drilling contract, our customers have no obligation to extend the contract term or recontract the drilling rig, and may elect to release the rig.  In the event a customer elects to terminate a drilling contract prior to the expiration of its drilling term, all of our current drilling contracts provide that our customers pay an early termination payment.  We cannot assure that any replacement contract can be obtained for any of our rigs operating in the spot-market or with terms expiring, and if obtained, that it would be on terms as favorable as those of our existing drilling contracts or at profitable levels.  The failure to renew or timely replace one or more of our expiring contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our operations involve operating hazards, which if not insured or indemnified against, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the drilling and well services industries, including the risks of:. • personal injury and loss of life;. • blowouts;. • cratering;. • fires and explosions;. • loss of well control;. • collapse of the borehole;. • damaged or lost drilling equipment; and. • damage or loss from extreme weather and natural disasters.. Any of these hazards can result in substantial liabilities or losses to us from, among other things:. • suspension of operations;. • damage to, or destruction of, our property and equipment and that of others;. • damage to producing or potentially productive oil and natural gas formations through which we drill; and. • environmental damage.. Although, we seek to protect ourselves from some but not all operating hazards through insurance coverage, some risks are either not insurable or insurance is available only at rates that we consider uneconomical. Depending on competitive conditions and other factors, we attempt to obtain contractual protection against uninsured operating risks from our customers.  However, customers who provide contractual indemnification protection may not in all cases maintain adequate insurance or otherwise have the financial resources necessary to support their indemnification obligations.  Our insurance or indemnification arrangements may not adequately protect us against liability or loss from all the hazards of our operations. We do not carry loss of business insurance for a rig being out of service.. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the potential risks affecting our operations and only in coverage amounts and deductible levels that we believe to be economical. Our insurance coverage includes deductibles which must be met prior to recovery. Additionally, our insurance is subject to exclusions and limitations, and there is no assurance that such coverage will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages. The occurrence of a significant event that we have not fully insured or indemnified against or the failure of a customer to meet its indemnification obligations to us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may be unable to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. Incurring a liability for which we are not fully insured or indemnified could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 15. We operate in a highly competitive industry in which price competition could reduce our profitability.. We encounter substantial competition from other drilling contractors. The competition in the markets in which we operate has intensified as recent mergers among E&P companies have reduced the number of available customers and the downturn in oil prices has decreased demand for drilling rigs and resulted in downward pricing pressure on operating drilling rigs.. Contract drilling companies compete primarily on a regional basis, and the intensity of competition may vary significantly from region to region at any particular time. Most drilling services contracts are awarded on the basis of competitive bids, which also results in price competition.. In addition to pricing, we believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are availability and condition of equipment, quality of personnel, efficiency of equipment, service quality, experience and safety record.  The success of our business depends on our ability to offer safe and highly efficient operations, the quality and efficiency of our rigs and the skills and experience of our rig crews.. As a result of competition, we may lose market share or be unable to maintain or increase prices for our present services or to acquire additional business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the failure to maintain an adequate safety record could harm our ability to secure new drilling contracts. As a relatively new contract driller with limited operating history, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the reputation for safety and quality required to successfully compete against our competition.. We face competition from many competitors with greater resources and greater ability to rapidly respond to changing customer requirements and market conditions.. We compete with large national and multi-national companies that have longer operating histories, greater financial, technical and other resources and greater name recognition than we do. Many of our larger competitors are able to offer ancillary products and services with their contract drilling services, and recently, some of our larger competitors have begun integrating and offering contract drilling services in connection with directional drilling and other services that we do not offer.  In this regard, large diversified oilfield service companies have begun to market bundled services, including contract drilling services, in the United States.  If any of these combined offerings gain acceptance within the United States market, it could place us at a competitive disadvantage that has an adverse impact on our future results of operations and profitability.. Furthermore, some of our competitors' greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand industry downturns, compete more effectively on the basis of price and technology, retain skilled rig personnel, and build new rigs or acquire and refurbish existing rigs so as to be able to place rigs into service more quickly than us in periods of high drilling demand.. In addition, we compete with several smaller companies capable of competing effectively on a regional or local basis. Smaller competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and services and changes in customer requirements.. Finally, some E&P companies perform horizontal and directional drilling on their wells using their own equipment and personnel. Any increase in the development and utilization of in-house drilling capabilities by our customers could decrease the demand for our services and have a material adverse impact on our business.. New technology may cause our drilling methods or equipment to become less competitive.. The drilling industry is subject to the introduction of new drilling and completion methods and equipment using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent protection. Changes in technology or improvements in competitors' equipment could make our equipment less competitive or require significant capital investments to build and maintain a competitive advantage. Further, we may face competitive pressure to design, implement or acquire certain new technologies at a substantial cost. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that may allow them to implement new technologies before we can. If we are unable to implement new and emerging technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth strategy.. 16. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives related to hydraulic fracturing could result in operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells that may reduce demand for our activities and could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Hydraulic fracturing is a commonly used process that involves injection of water, sand, and certain chemicals to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock formation to allow flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore. The adoption of any federal, state or local laws or the implementation of regulations or ordinances restricting or increasing the costs of hydraulic fracturing could potentially increase our costs of operations and cause a decrease in drilling activity levels in the Permian Basin and other unconventional resource plays and an associated decrease in demand for our rigs and service, any or all of which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. The federal Energy Policy Act of 2005 amended the Underground Injection Control provisions of the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (\"SDWA\") to exclude certain hydraulic fracturing practices from the definition of \"underground injection.\" The EPA has asserted regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel and published guidance relating to such practices in February 2014. From time to time, Congress has considered bills to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing from the SDWA, which would have the effect of allowing the EPA to promulgate new regulations and permitting requirements for hydraulic fracturing, potentially including chemical disclosure requirements. At the state level, several states in which we operate have adopted regulations requiring the disclosure of certain information regarding hydraulic fracturing fluids.. Scrutiny of hydraulic fracturing activities continues in other ways. A number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. The EPA conducted a study of the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and issued a final report in December 2016. This study and other studies that may be undertaken by the EPA or other federal agencies could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or other statutory and/or regulatory mechanisms. Additionally, in June 2016, the EPA published a rule establishing pretreatment standards which prohibit the disposal of unconventional oil and natural gas wastewater at publicly owned treatment works.. In addition, some states and localities have adopted, and others are considering adopting, regulations or ordinances that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, that would require, with some exceptions, disclosure of constituents of hydraulic fracturing fluids, or that would impose higher taxes, fees or royalties on natural gas production. Moreover, public debate over hydraulic fracturing and shale natural gas production has been increasing, and has resulted in delays of well permits in some areas.. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition, including litigation, to oil and natural gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of oil and natural gas, including from the developing shale plays, incurred by our customers or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing in the unconventional resource plays where we focus our operations.. We depend on the services of key executives, the loss of whom could materially harm our business.. Our senior executives are important to our success because they are instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business and technology, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel, and identifying customers and expansion opportunities. We also depend on the relationships that our senior management has with many of our customers. Losing the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement could be found. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our senior executives. As a result, we are not insured against any losses resulting from the death of our key employees.. Rig upgrade, refurbishment and new rig construction projects, as well as the reactivation of rigs that have been idle for six months or longer, are subject to risks which could cause delays or cost overruns and adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations, and financial position.. New drilling rigs or rigs being upgraded, converted or re-activated following a period of stack may experience start-up complications and may encounter other operational problems that could result in significant delays, uncompensated downtime, reduced dayrates or the cancellation, termination or non-renewal of drilling contracts. Rig construction and upgrade projects are subject to risks of delay or significant cost overruns inherent in any large construction project from numerous factors, including the following:. • shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor;. • unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment or shipyard construction;. 17. • failure of equipment to meet quality and/or performance standards;. • financial or operating difficulties of equipment vendors;. • unanticipated actual or purported change orders;. • inability by us or our customer to obtain required permits or approvals, or to meet applicable regulatory standards in our areas of operations;. • unanticipated cost increases between order and delivery;. • adverse weather conditions and other events of force majeure;. • design or engineering changes; and. • work stoppages and other labor disputes.. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and financial position.. As we construct additional rigs in the future, we may experience difficulty integrating those rigs into our operations. Additionally, we may incur leverage and add additional financial risk to our business. To the extent we incur additional leverage in our business, it may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and growth strategy.. The process of constructing rigs may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of management's attention and other resources. We may not be able to successfully manage and integrate new rigs into our existing operations or successfully market our rigs and build market share attributable to drilling rigs that we construct. To the extent we experience some or all of these difficulties, our results of operations, financial condition and growth strategy could be adversely affected.. Expanding our fleet may cause us to incur additional financial leverage, increasing our financial risk and debt service requirements, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth strategy.. Our current estimated backlog of contract drilling revenue may not ultimately be realized.. As of December 31, 2017, our estimated contract drilling backlog for future revenues under term contracts, which we define as contracts with a fixed term of six months or more, was approximately $51.5 million. Our backlog does not include potential reductions in rates for unscheduled standby during periods in which the rig is moving, on standby or incurring maintenance and repair time in excess of contractually allowed downtime.  To the extent that we have rigs under term contracts operating on a standby or standby-without-crew basis, our top line revenues will be less than our reported backlog from term contracts.. Fixed-term drilling contracts customarily provide for termination at the election of the customer, with an \"early termination payment\" to us if a contract is terminated prior to the expiration of the fixed term.  Additionally, in certain circumstances, for example, destruction of a drilling rig that is not replaced within a specified period of time, our bankruptcy, or a breach of our contract obligations, the customer may not be obligated to make an early termination payment to us.  Additionally, during depressed market conditions, such as those we are currently experiencing, or otherwise, customers may be unable to satisfy their contractual obligations or may seek to terminate, renegotiate or fail to honor their contractual obligations.  In addition, we may not be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control, and our customers may seek to cancel or negotiate our contracts for various reasons, including those described above.  As a result, we may be unable to realize all of our current contract drilling backlog.  In addition, the renegotiation or termination of fixed-term contracts without the receipt of early termination payments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our operating and maintenance costs with respect to our rigs include fixed costs that will not decline in proportion to decreases in dayrates.. We do not expect our operating and maintenance costs with respect to our rigs to necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenue. Operating revenue may fluctuate as a function of changes in dayrate, but costs for operating a rig and property taxes are generally fixed or only semi-variable regardless of the dayrate being earned. During times of reduced activity, reductions in costs may not be immediate as portions of the crew may be required to prepare our rigs for stacking, after which time the crew members are assigned to active rigs or dismissed. Moreover, when our rigs are mobilized from one geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary significantly. In general, labor costs increase due to higher salary levels, inflation, and increases in workers' compensation insurance. Equipment maintenance expenses fluctuate depending upon the type of activity the unit is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Contract preparation expenses vary based on the scope and length of contract preparation required and the duration of the firm contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized.. 18. We participate in a capital intensive business. We may not be able to finance future growth of our operations.. The contract drilling industry is capital intensive. Our cash flow from operations and the continued availability of credit are subject to a number of variables, including general economic conditions, conditions in the oil and natural gas market, and more specifically, our rig utilization rates, operating margins and ability to control costs and obtain contracts in a competitive industry. Our cash flow from operations and present borrowing capacity may not be sufficient to fund our anticipated capital expenditures and working capital requirements. We may from time to time seek additional financing, either in the form of bank borrowings, sales of debt or equity securities or otherwise. To the extent our capital resources and cash flow from operations are at any time insufficient to fund our activities or repay our indebtedness as it becomes due, we will need to raise additional funds through public or private financing or additional borrowings. We may not be able to obtain any such capital resources in the amount or at the time when needed.  Based upon the significant downturn in market conditions, any new sources of debt capital would require substantially higher interest requirements, and any new sources of equity capital could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders.  Any limitations on our access to capital or increase in the cost of that capital could significantly impair our growth strategy. Our ability to maintain our targeted credit profile could affect our cost of capital as well as our ability to execute our growth strategy. In addition, a variety of factors beyond our control could impact the availability or cost of capital, including domestic or international economic conditions, increases in key benchmark interest rates and/or credit spreads, the adoption of new or amended banking or capital market laws or regulations, the re-pricing of market risks and volatility in capital and financial markets.  If we are at any time not able to obtain the necessary capital resources, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under applicable debt instruments, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance indebtedness under our Credit Facility depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the interest or principal, when due, on our indebtedness.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the absence of sufficient cash flows and capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet debt service and other obligations. Our Credit Facility currently restricts our ability to dispose of assets and our use of the proceeds from such disposition subject to certain defined exceptions.  We may not be able to consummate those dispositions, and the proceeds of any such disposition may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations.. Restrictions in our existing and future debt agreements could limit our growth and our ability to engage in certain activities.. Our Credit Facility contains a number of significant covenants, including restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to, among other things:. • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness;. • make loans to others;. • make investments;. • merge or consolidate with another entity;. • transfer, lease or dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;. • make certain payments;. • create or incur liens;. • purchase, hold or acquire capital stock or certain other types of securities;. • pay cash dividends;. • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and. • engage in certain other transactions without the prior consent of the lenders.. 19. A breach of any covenant in our Credit Facility would result in a default. A resulting event of default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the payment of the indebtedness outstanding under, and a termination of, our Credit Facility and in a default with respect to, and an acceleration of, the indebtedness outstanding under any other debt agreements. The accelerated indebtedness would become immediately due and payable. If that occurs, we may not be able to make all of the required payments or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if new financing were available at that time, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us.. A failure of any of our lenders to honor commitments or advance funds under our Credit Facility would have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our operations and business strategy.. Our Credit Facility limits the amounts we can borrow up to a borrowing base amount, although capped based on lender commitments, which is calculated monthly and is based upon the appraised value of our eligible drilling fleet and a percentage of our eligible accounts receivable. If a rig becomes idle for longer than 90 consecutive days, it is removed from our borrowing base until it is recontracted.  The borrowing base under our Credit Facility was $106.7 million as calculated as of December 31, 2017, with lender commitments of $85.0 million.. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our Credit Facility as a result of a decrease in borrowing base based upon the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination or an unwillingness or inability on the part of lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations and the inability of other lenders to provide additional funding to cover the defaulting lender's portion.  As a result, we may be unable to implement our respective drilling and development plan, make acquisitions or otherwise carry out business plans, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be adversely impacted by work stoppages or other labor matters.. We depend on skilled employees to build and operate our rigs, and any prolonged labor disruption involving our employees could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition by disrupting our ability to perform drilling-related services for our customers. Moreover, unionization efforts have been made from time to time within our industry, with varying degrees of success. Any such unionization could increase our costs or limit our flexibility.. Failure to hire and retain skilled personnel could adversely affect our business.. The delivery of our services and products and construction of our rigs requires personnel with specialized skills and experience who can perform physically demanding work. As a result of the volatility of the contract drilling industry and the demanding nature of the work, workers may choose to pursue employment in fields that offer a more desirable work environment at wage rates that are competitive, which occurred during the dramatic industry downturn that began in 2014 and lasted throughout 2016.  Between December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2017, the United States land rig count, as reported by Baker Hughes, rose by 271 rigs, with a disproportionate amount of this increase occurring in the Company's target markets of Texas and its contiguous states.  This increase in activity has increased competition for, and decreased the availability of, experienced rig crews.  This increased competition could result in an increase to our operating costs if we are forced to raise wages to compete for experienced rig crew talent, and could results in increased training and new hire related costs if we are required to train and assimilate lesser experienced crew personnel into our organization.. Potential inability or lack of desire by workers to commute to our facilities and job sites and competition for workers from competitors or other industries are factors that could affect our ability to attract and retain workers. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. If either or both of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired.. Our ability to be productive and profitable will depend upon our ability to employ and retain skilled personnel and we cannot assure that at times of high demand we will be able to retain, recruit and train an adequate number of skilled workers. In addition, our ability to expand our operations will depend in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. Our inability to attract and retain skilled workers in sufficient numbers to satisfy our existing service contracts and enter into new contracts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth strategy.. We depend on a limited number of vendors, some of which are thinly capitalized and the loss of any of which could disrupt our operations.. Our contract drilling operations and our ability to construct new drilling rigs in a timely manner depend on the availability of various rig equipment, including VFD drives and drillers cabins, top drives, mud pumps, engines and drill pipe,. 20. as well as replacement parts, related rig equipment and fuel. Some of these have been in short supply from time to time. In addition, key rig components critical to the construction of our rigs are either purchased from or fabricated by a single or limited number of vendors, including vendors that may compete against us from time to time.  For many of these products and services, there are only a limited number of vendors and suppliers available to us.. We do not currently have any long-term supply contracts with any of our suppliers or subcontractors and may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our larger competitors when purchasing from these suppliers and subcontractors. Shortages could occur in these essential components due to an interruption of supply or increased demands in the industry. If we are unable to procure certain of such rig components or services from our subcontractors we would be required to reduce or delay our rig construction and other operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth strategy.. We could be adversely affected if shortages of equipment or supplies occur.. Increased or decreased demand among drilling contractors for consumable supplies, including fuel, and ancillary rig equipment, such as pumps, valves, drillpipe and engines, may lead to delays in obtaining these materials and our inability to operate our rigs in an efficient manner. Most of our contracts provide that our customers purchase the fuel that run our drilling rigs and thus bear the financial impact of increased fuel prices. However, prolonged shortages in the availability of fuel to run our drilling rigs resulting from action of the elements, terrorism or other force majeure events could result in the suspension of our contracts and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have periodically experienced increased lead times in purchasing ancillary equipment for our drilling rigs. To the extent there are significant delays in being able to purchase important components for our rigs, certain of our rigs may not be available for operation or may not be able to operate as efficiently as expected, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Reduced demand can drive suppliers from the market. With reduced suppliers, consumables for our operations may not be readily available. Additionally, suppliers may experience shortfalls in obtaining their materials and/or labor. Suppliers who have been regular providers to us may experience shortfalls that may lead to delays as we secure other sources.. Legal proceedings could have a negative impact on our business.. The nature of our business makes us susceptible to legal proceedings and governmental investigations from time to time. Lawsuits or claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Any litigation or claims, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future.. Regulatory compliance costs and restrictions, as well as any delays in obtaining permits by our customers for their operations, could impair our business.. The operations of our customers are subject to or impacted by a wide array of regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate.  As a result of changes in regulations and laws relating to the oil and natural gas industry, including land drilling, our customers' operations could be disrupted or curtailed by governmental authorities. In most states, our customers are required to obtain permits from one or more governmental agencies in order to perform drilling and completion activities. Such permits are typically required by state agencies, but can also be required by federal and local governmental agencies. The requirements for such permits vary depending on the location where such drilling and completion activities will be conducted. As with all governmental permitting processes, there is a degree of uncertainty as to whether a permit will be granted, the time it will take for a permit to be issued, and the conditions which may be imposed in connection with the granting of the permit. Additionally, the high cost of compliance with applicable regulations may cause customers to discontinue or limit their operations or defer planned drilling, and may discourage companies from continuing development activities. As a result, demand for our services could be substantially affected by regulations adversely impacting the oil and natural gas industry.. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant liabilities for penalties, damages or costs of remediation or compliance.. Our operations are subject to federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of natural resources and the environment, health and safety aspects of our operations and waste management, including the transportation and disposal of waste and other materials. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations on our operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital expenditures to mitigate or prevent releases of materials from our facilities, the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations and the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in investigations, restrictions or orders suspending well operations, the assessment of administrative,. 21. civil and criminal penalties, the revocation of permits and the issuance of corrective action orders, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. There is inherent risk of environmental costs and liabilities in our business as a result of our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and oilfield and industrial wastes, air emissions and wastewater discharges related to our operations, and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Some environmental laws and regulations may impose strict, joint and several liability, which means that in some situations, we could be exposed to liability as a result of our conduct that was without fault or lawful at the time it occurred or as a result of the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Clean-up costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and costs associated with changes in environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Laws protecting the environment generally have become more stringent over time and are expected to continue to do so, which could lead to material increases in costs for future environmental compliance and remediation. The modification or interpretation of existing laws or regulations, or the adoption of new laws or regulations, could curtail exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and natural gas, could limit well servicing opportunities or impose unforeseen liabilities. We may not be able to recover some or any of our costs of compliance with these laws and regulations from insurance.. Potential listing of species as \"endangered\" under the federal ESA could result in increased costs and new operating restrictions or delays on our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers, which could adversely reduce the amount of contract drilling services that we provide to such customers.. The federal ESA and analogous state laws regulate a variety of activities, including oil and natural gas development, which could have an adverse effect on species listed as threatened or endangered under the ESA or their habitats. The designation of previously unidentified endangered or threatened species or the designation of previously unprotected areas as a critical habitat could cause oil could cause oil and natural gas exploration and production operators to incur additional costs or become subject to operating delays, restrictions or bans in affected areas, which impacts could adversely reduce the amount of drilling activities in affected areas, including support services that we provide to such operators under our contract drilling services segment. Numerous species have been listed or proposed for protected status in areas in which we provide or could in the future provide field services. For instance, the sage grouse, the  lesser prairie-chicken and certain wildflower species, among others, are species that have been or are being considered for protected status under the ESA and whose range can coincide with our oil and natural gas production activities. The presence of protected species in areas where operators for whom we provide contract drilling services conduct exploration and production operations could impair such operators' ability to timely complete well drilling and development and, consequently, adversely affect the amount of contract drilling or other field services that we provided to such operators, which reduction of services could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting or regulating emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our field services.. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases from industrial and energy sources contribute to increases of carbon dioxide levels in the Earth's atmosphere and oceans and contribute to global warming and other environmental effects, the EPA has adopted various regulations under the federal Clean Air Act addressing emissions of greenhouse gases that may affect the oil and natural gas industry. During 2012, the EPA published rules that include standards to reduce methane emissions associated with oil and natural gas production. In May 2016, the EPA finalized regulations that set methane emission standards for new and modified oil and natural gas facilities, including production facilities.  In July 2017, the EPA proposed a two-year stay of certain requirements of this rule pending reconsideration of the rule. In addition, the United States has been involved in international negotiations regarding greenhouse gas reductions under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and was among the 195 nations that signed an international accord in December 2015 with the objective of limiting greenhouse gas emission. The Paris Agreement entered into force in November 2016; however, the United States announced its intention to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on June 1, 2017. The United States' status and continued participation in these and other initiatives or regulatory changes could result in increased costs of development and production and could have adverse effects on our operations. Additionally, certain U.S. states and regional coalitions of states have adopted measures regulating or limiting greenhouse gases from certain sources or have adopted policies seeking to reduce overall emissions of greenhouse gases. The adoption and implementation of any international treaty or of any federal or state legislation or regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to comply with such requirements and possibly require the reduction or limitation of emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations and other sources within the industrial or energy sectors. Such legislation or regulations could adversely affect demand for the production of oil and natural gas and thus reduce demand for the services we provide to oil and natural gas producers as well as increase our. 22. operating costs by requiring additional costs to operate and maintain equipment and facilities, install emissions controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes and fees relating to emissions, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases may produce changes in climate or weather, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events, which if any such effects were to occur, could have adverse physical effects on our operations, physical assets and field services to exploration and production operators.. The effects of severe weather could adversely affect our operations.. Changes in climate due to global warming trends could adversely affect our operations by limiting, or increasing the costs associated with, equipment or product supplies. In addition, coastal flooding and adverse weather conditions such as increased frequency and/or severity of hurricanes could impair our ability to operate in affected regions of the country. Oil and natural gas operations of our customers located in Louisiana and parts of Texas may be adversely affected by hurricanes and tropical storms, resulting in reduced demand for our services. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include: curtailment of services; weather-related damage to facilities and equipment; suspension of operations; inability to deliver equipment, personnel and products to job sites in accordance with contract schedules; and loss of productivity. These constraints could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. Unusually warm winters also adversely affect the demand for our services by decreasing the demand for natural gas.. Our business is subject to cybersecurity risks and threats.. Threats to information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents or attacks continue to grow. It is possible that our business, financial and other systems could be compromised, which might not be noticed for some period of time. Risks associated with these threats include, among other things, loss of intellectual property, disruption of our and customers' business operations and safety procedures, loss or damage to our worksite data delivery systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events.. Any future implementation of price controls on oil and natural gas would affect our operations.. Certain groups have asserted efforts to have the United States Congress impose some form of price controls on either oil, natural gas, or both. There is no way at this time to know what results these efforts may have. However, any future limits on the price of oil or natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Improvements in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Since our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, any improvement in or new discoveries of alternative energy technologies that increase the use of alternative forms of energy and reduce the demand for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Liquidity. The borrowing base under our Credit Facility may decline during 2018.. At December 31, 2017, the borrowing base under our Credit Facility was $106.7 million, and we had $36.5 million of availability remaining of our $85.0 million commitment on that date.  The borrowing base under the facility is calculated based upon the sum of (1) 85% of our eligible accounts receivable and (2) an advance percentage multiplied by the appraised forced liquidation value of our eligible drilling rigs.  In most circumstances, all of accounts receivable are considered eligible unless they are more than 90 days past due.. With respect to the portion of the borrowing base tied to the appraised forced liquidation value of our eligible rigs, a rig is generally included in the borrowing base unless it has ceased earning revenue under a contract for 90 consecutive days or greater, and it will continue to be excluded until such time as a new drilling contract for the rig is executed.. At December 31, 2017, the advance percentage utilized to calculate the borrowing base was 73.75%.  Under the terms of the Credit Facility, this advance rate will decline 1.25% each quarter beginning January 1, 2018 through June 2019. Thereafter, through the maturity date, the advance rate remains at 65.0%.. The lenders have the right to reappraise our drilling fleet throughout the year, and there cannot be any assurance that future appraisals will not adversely affect the appraised values of our rigs due to the aging of our rigs or if market conditions  decline.. 23. At December 31, 2017, we had 14 rigs that were eligible to be included in the equipment portion of the borrowing base.. If at any time our borrowing base falls below our outstanding balance under our Credit Facility, and we were not able to promptly repay such deficiency, we would be required to repay to the banks any deficiency amount.  In such event, if our available cash balances were not sufficient to repay such amounts, we would be required to obtain other debt or equity financing necessary to cure such deficiency, and there can be no assurance that such additional financing sources would be available to us, or available on terms acceptable to us.  Any inability to timely cure any deficiency between our borrowing base and Credit Facility balance may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition.. Our ability to comply with the leverage covenant and fixed charge coverage ratio covenant contained in our Credit Facility is based upon our future cash flows and debt levels.. Our Credit Facility requires us to maintain a leverage ratio of net debt to adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (\"EBITDA\"), not to exceed the following in the respective time periods: 1Q'18 and 2Q'18: 4.0x; 3Q'18 and 4Q'18: 3.75x; 1Q'19 and 2Q'19: 3.5x; 3Q'19: 3.25x; and thereafter 3.0x.  Adjusted EBITDA is calculated as net income plus interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, non-cash stock based compensation, and certain other gains, losses, and expenses (including up to $2.0 million of Galayda yard costs previously capitalized when construction activities were continuous).  As of December 31, 2017, the leverage ratio covenant was not to exceed 4.0x.. The Credit Facility also requires us to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio (\"FCCR\") of not less than 1.1 to 1.0.  The FCCR is equal to adjusted EBITDA less capital expenditures divided by cash interest expense plus scheduled principal payments, cash dividends and capital lease obligations plus cash taxes paid.  The following capital expenditures are excluded from the calculation of FCCR: (1) capital expenditures incurred before November 1, 2015 and (2) capital expenditures financed through capital sources other than the Credit Facility on or after July 1, 2017.. Our compliance with each of these covenants depends significantly upon our level of cash flows in 2018 and beyond, which are based upon factors such as spot dayrates and rig utilization that are difficult to predict based upon the downturn in market conditions our industry has experienced.  In particular, our ability to comply with our leverage and FCCR covenant in 2018 and beyond is predicated upon market conditions not deteriorating.  If we are not able to comply with the covenants contained in our Credit Facility, we would be required to seek a waiver or amendment to the facility, or seek alternative financing sources, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative financing sources.  Any failure to comply with the financial covenants contained in our Credit Facility, or to cure any such non-compliance may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition.. Our ability to complete our two partially completed new build rigs is dependent upon our ability to maintain adequate liquidity and availability under our Credit Facility.. A key component of our growth strategy is completing two new build 200 Series rigs for which we already have made substantial investments.  Our ability to complete these projects will be dependent upon adequate availability under our Credit Facility, and more importantly, on our ability to comply with the covenants, including financial covenants, under our Credit Facility after taking into account the increased debt levels we would incur associated with completing these projects.  Therefore, there is no assurance that we can complete all of these capital projects and fully execute our near-term growth strategy.. Our Credit Facility contains a subjective acceleration clause, and a springing lock-box arrangement that is triggered when availability under our Credit Facility falls below $10 million.  Under applicable accounting rules, outstanding balances under our Credit Facility will be reclassified from long-term to current if this triggering event occurs.. The Credit Facility matures on November 5, 2020.  The Credit Facility provides for a springing lock-box arrangement that is only triggered upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Facility or if availability under the Credit Facility falls below the greater of (A) $10.0 million and (B) the lesser of 10% of the borrowing base or 10% of the total commitments under the facility.  The Credit Facility provides that an event of default may occur if a material adverse change to us occurs, which is considered a subjective acceleration clause under applicable accounting rules.  Under ASC 470-10-45, because of the existence of this clause, borrowings under the Credit Facility will be required to be classified as current in the event the springing lock-box event occurs, regardless of the actual maturity of the borrowings.  We had $48.5 million in outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility at December 31, 2017.  Remaining availability of our $85.0 million commitment under the Credit Facility was $36.5 million at December 31, 2017, and we are currently in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility.  The lenders have the right to reappraise our drilling fleet in the future as well, and there cannot be any assurance that future appraisals will not adversely affect the appraised values of our rigs due to the aging of our rigs or if market conditions decline.. 24. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our business.. Our business and operating results can be harmed by factors such as the availability, terms of and cost of capital, increases in interest rates or a reduction in credit rating. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flow used for capital expenditures and place us at a competitive disadvantage. For example, total long-term debt at December 31, 2017 included $48.5 million of floating-rate debt attributed to borrowings at an average interest rate of 6.04%, and the impact on annual cash flow of a 10% change in the floating-rate (approximately 0.60%) would be approximately $0.3 million annually based on the floating-rate debt and other obligations outstanding at December 31, 2017; however, there are no assurances that possible rate changes would be limited to such amounts.  A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our desired growth and operating results.. Risks Related to our Common Stock. Our stock price is subject to volatility.. The market price of common stock of companies engaged in the oil and natural gas service industry, including our common stock price, has been highly volatile.  Stock price volatility could adversely affect our business operations by, among other things, impeding our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel and to obtain additional financing.. In addition to the other risk factors discussed in this section, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by:. • operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;. • factors influencing the levels of global oil and natural gas exploration and exploitation activities, such as a downturn in oil prices;. • the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors or analysts consider comparable to us;. • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; and. • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets.. To the extent that the price of our common stock remains at lower levels or it declines further, our ability to raise funds through the issuance of equity or otherwise use our common stock as consideration will be reduced.  In addition, increases in our leverage may make it more difficult for us to access additional capital.  These factors may limit our ability to implement our operating and growth plans.. Because we have no plans to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us.. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since our incorporation and our Credit Facility prohibits us from paying cash dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.  We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support our operations and growth.  Any payment of cash dividends in the future will be dependent on the amount of funds legally available, our financial condition, capital requirements, ability to pay such dividends under our then existing Credit Facility and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant.  Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment.. Provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company at a premium that a stockholder may consider favorable, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. The existence of some provisions in our organizational documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws that could delay or prevent an unsolicited change in control of our company include:. • provisions regulating the ability of our stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters for action at annual meetings of our stockholders;. • limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting and act by written consent; and. • the authorization given to our board of directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock.. 25. Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock in the event of our liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders or rank senior to our common stock, may adversely affect the market value of our common stock.. We intend to evaluate and may attempt to increase our capital resources by offering debt or equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes, convertible notes and classes of preferred stock. In the event of our liquidation, holders of our debt securities and preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock.  Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market value of our common stock, or both. Our preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that would limit amounts available for distribution to holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market value of our common stock and diluting their shareholdings in us.. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, including those relating to accounting standards and disclosure about our executive compensation, that apply to other public companies.. In April 2012, President Obama signed into law the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the \"JOBS Act\").  We are classified as an emerging growth company (an \"EGC\") under the JOBS Act. For as long as we are an EGC, which may be up to five full fiscal years, unlike other public companies, we will not be required to, among other things: (i) provide an auditor's attestation report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; (ii) comply with any new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the \"PCAOB\") requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer; (iii) provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies; or (iv) hold nonbinding advisory votes on executive compensation. We will remain an EGC for up to five years, although we will lose that status sooner if we have more than $1.07 billion of revenues in a fiscal year, have more than $700 million in market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates, or issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period.. To the extent that we rely on any of the exemptions available to EGCs, we will provide less information about our executive compensation and internal control over financial reporting than issuers that are not emerging growth companies. If some investors find our common stock to be less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.. 26"
