[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face but are risks we believe are material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, also may impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, prospects or ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected and the value of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the risks described below, the information contained under the heading \"Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements\" and the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding whether to invest in our securities.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our investments are and will be concentrated in industrial and logistics properties.. Our properties are substantially all industrial and logistics properties and we intend to acquire similar additional properties. The market demand to lease industrial and logistics properties generally reflects conditions in the U.S. economy. If the general economy slows, the demand to lease industrial and logistics properties will be reduced and the value of our common shares may decline. Because we expect to be concentrated in industrial and logistics properties, the adverse impact of cyclical economic conditions affecting industrial and logistics properties may have a greater impact on the value of our common shares than if we were invested in several different types of properties, including residential, office or other properties, in addition to industrial and logistics properties.. The development of new industrial and logistics properties may exceed any increase in demand for such properties.. The current strong demand for industrial and logistics properties is encouraging new development of such properties. If the development of new industrial and logistics properties exceeds the increase in demand for such properties, our existing properties may be unable to successfully compete for tenants with newer developed buildings, our income may decline and the value of our common shares may decline.. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us.. Since the most recent U.S. recession, the Board of Governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve System, or the U.S. Federal Reserve, has taken actions that have resulted in low interest rates for a long period of time. Since December 2016, the U.S. Federal Reserve has raised its benchmark interest rate by 125 basis points, and there are some market expectations that market interest rates will rise further in the near to intermediate term. Market interest rates may continue to increase, and those increases may materially and negatively affect us in several ways, including:. • Investors may consider whether to buy or sell our common shares based upon the distribution rate on our common shares relative to the then prevailing market interest rates. If market interest rates go up, investors may expect a higher distribution rate than we are able to pay, which may increase our cost of capital, or they may sell our common shares and seek alternative investments that offer higher distribution rates. Sales of our common shares may cause a decline in the value of our common shares.. • Amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility require interest to be paid at variable interest rates. When interest rates increase, our interest costs will increase, which could adversely affect our cash flows, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, our cost of refinancing our fixed rate debts when they become due and our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders. Additionally, if we choose to hedge our interest rate risk, we cannot be sure that the hedge will be effective or that our hedging counterparty will meet its obligations to us.. • Property values are often determined, in part, based upon a capitalization of rental income formula. When market interest rates increase, property investors often demand higher capitalization rates and that causes property values to decline. Increases in interest rates could lower the value of our properties and cause the value of our securities to decline.. 28. Table of Contents. We may be unable to lease our properties when our leases expire.. Although we typically will seek to renew our leases with current tenants when they expire, we cannot be sure that we will be successful in doing so. If our tenants do not renew their leases, we may be unable to obtain new tenants to maintain or increase the historical occupancy rates of, or rents from, our properties.. We may experience declining rents or incur significant costs to renew our leases with current tenants or lease our properties to new tenants.. When rents are reset under the leases at our Hawaii Properties, the rents may decline. When we renew our leases with current tenants or lease to new tenants, we may experience rent decreases, and we may have to spend substantial amounts for leasing commissions, tenant improvements or other tenant inducements. Moreover, many of our Mainland Properties have been specially designed for the particular businesses of our tenants; if the current leases for such properties are terminated or are not renewed, we may be required to renovate such properties at substantial costs, decrease the rents we charge or provide other concessions in order to lease such properties to new tenants.. A significant number of our properties are located on the island of Oahu, HI, and we are exposed to risks as a result of this geographic concentration.. A significant number of our properties are located on the island of Oahu, HI. This geographic concentration creates risks. For example, Oahu's remote location on a volcanic island makes our properties there vulnerable to certain risks from natural disasters, such as tsunamis, hurricanes, flooding, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes, which could cause damage to our properties, affect our Hawaii tenants' ability to pay rent to us and cause the value of our properties and our securities to decline.. Current government policies regarding interest rates and trade policies may cause a recession.. The U.S. Federal Reserve policy regarding the timing and amount of future increases in interest rates and changing U.S. and other countries' trade policies may hinder the growth of the U.S. economy. It is unclear whether the U.S. economy will be able to withstand these challenges and continue sustained growth. Economic weakness in the U.S. economy generally or a new U.S. recession would likely adversely affect our financial condition and that of our tenants, could adversely impact the ability of our tenants to renew our leases or pay rent to us, and may cause the values of our properties and of our securities to decline.. Substantially all of our properties are leased to single tenants which may subject us to greater risks of loss than if each of our properties had multiple tenants.. Substantially all of our rental revenues from our properties as of December 31, 2017 were from properties leased to single tenants. The value of single tenant properties is materially dependent on the performance of those tenants under their respective leases. Many of our single tenant leases require that certain property level operating expenses and capital expenditures, such as real estate taxes, insurance, utilities, maintenance and repairs, including increases with respect thereto, be paid, or reimbursed to us, by our tenants. Accordingly, in addition to our not receiving rental income, a tenant default on such leases could make us responsible for paying these expenses. Because most of our properties are leased to single tenants, the adverse impact of individual tenant defaults or non-renewals is likely to be greater than would be the case if our properties were leased to multiple tenants.. Our business depends upon our tenants satisfying their lease obligations to us, which depends, to a large degree, on our tenants' abilities to successfully operate their businesses.. The value of our business and the value of our common shares are dependent, in part, on our tenants' abilities to meet their lease obligations to us. The financial capacities of our tenants may be adversely affected by factors over which we have no control. In particular, two subsidiaries of Amazon.com, Inc. together contribute approximately 10.3% of our annualized rental revenues, under three separate leases, which are guaranteed by Amazon.com, Inc., as of December 31, 2017. The inability of our tenants and any applicable parent guarantor to satisfy their lease obligations to us, whether due to a downturn in their business or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect us.. Bankruptcy law may adversely impact us.. The occurrence of a tenant bankruptcy could reduce the rent we receive from that tenant's lease. If a tenant becomes bankrupt, federal law may prohibit us from evicting that tenant based solely upon its bankruptcy. In addition, a bankrupt tenant. 29. Table of Contents. may be authorized to reject and terminate its lease with us. Any claims against a bankrupt tenant for unpaid future rent would be subject to statutory limitations that may be substantially less than the contractually specified rent we are owed under the lease, and any claim we have for unpaid past rent, may not be paid in full.. Many of our tenants do not have credit ratings.. The majority of our tenants are not rated by any nationally recognized credit rating organization. It is more difficult to assess the ability of a tenant that is not rated to meet its obligations than that of a rated tenant. Moreover, tenants may be rated when we enter leases with them but their ratings may be later lowered or terminated during the term of the leases. Because we have many unrated tenants, we may experience a higher percentage of tenant defaults than landlords who have a higher percentage of highly rated tenants.. When we reset rents, renew leases or lease to new tenants at our Hawaii Properties, our rents may decrease, and our ability to increase rents may be limited in the future by government action.. Approximately 35% of our Hawaii Properties require the rents to be reset periodically based on fair market values, which could result in rental increases or decreases. Our ability to increase rents when rent resets occur will depend upon then prevailing market conditions, which are beyond our control. While rent resets involving our Hawaii Properties have, in the aggregate, resulted in rent increases during the period of our, SIR's and SIR's predecessor's ownership, in some instances rent resets have resulted in rent decreases. Accordingly, the historical increases achieved from rent resets involving our Hawaii Properties may not be repeated in the future.. In 2009, the Hawaii state legislature enacted legislation that would have limited rent increases at certain of our Hawaii Properties. In May 2010, the U.S. District Court in Hawaii ruled that this legislation violated the U.S. Constitution and was unenforceable. In October 2010, SIR's predecessor entered a settlement agreement with Hawaii pursuant to which Hawaii's appeal of this decision was dismissed with prejudice in return for the agreement by SIR's predecessor not to pursue collection of its attorneys' fees from Hawaii. The Hawaii state legislature may in the future adopt laws to limit rent increases at our Hawaii Properties, and, even if we are successful in challenging such laws, the cost of doing so may be significant.. REIT distribution requirements and limitations on our ability to access reasonably priced capital may adversely impact our ability to carry out our business plan.. We intend to elect and qualify for taxation as a REIT under the IRC. As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains). Accordingly, we may not be able to retain sufficient cash to fund our operations, repay our debts, invest in our properties or fund our acquisitions or development or redevelopment efforts. Our business strategies therefore depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs. The volatility in the availability of capital to businesses on a global basis in most debt and equity markets generally may limit our ability to raise reasonably priced capital. We may also be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business, market perceptions of our prospects, the terms of our indebtedness or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. Because the earnings we are permitted to retain are limited by the rules governing REIT qualification and taxation, if we are unable to raise reasonably priced capital, we may not be able to carry out our business plan.. We may be unable to grow our business by acquisitions of additional properties.. Our business plans involve the acquisition of additional properties. Our ability to make profitable acquisitions is subject to risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with:. • competition from other investors, including publicly traded and private REITs, numerous financial institutions, individuals, foreign investors and other public and private companies;. • our long term cost of capital;. • contingencies in our acquisition agreements; and. • the availability and terms of financing.. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties. For example:. 30. Table of Contents. • we do not believe that it is possible to understand fully a property before it is owned and operated for a reasonable period of time, and, notwithstanding pre-acquisition due diligence, we could acquire a property that contains undisclosed defects in design or construction;. • the market in which an acquired property is located may experience unexpected changes that adversely affect the property's value;. • the occupancy of and rents from properties that we acquire may decline during our ownership;. • property operating costs for our acquired properties may be higher than anticipated, which may result in tenants that pay or reimburse us for those costs terminating their leases or our acquired properties not yielding expected returns;. • we may acquire properties subject to unknown liabilities and without any recourse, or with limited recourse, such as liability for the cleanup of undisclosed environmental contamination or for claims by tenants, vendors or other persons related to actions taken by former owners of the properties; and. • acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our other business activities.. For these reasons, among others, we might not realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions, and our business plan to acquire additional properties may not succeed or may cause us to experience losses.. Future leases may require us to pay property operating costs.. While our properties are generally leased to tenants that are financially responsible to pay or reimburse us for all, or substantially all, increases in property level operating and maintenance expenses, many industrial and logistics properties do not utilize this lease structure. In the future, we may enter into new leases or acquire properties subject to leases that make us responsible for property level operating costs; and we may be adversely affected if such costs increase.. We face significant competition.. We face significant competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, including publicly traded and private REITs, numerous financial institutions, individuals, foreign investors and other public and private companies. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and other resources than us. Because of competition for acquisitions, we may be unable to acquire desirable properties or we may pay higher prices for, and realize lower net cash flows than we hope to achieve from, acquisitions.. We also face competition for tenants at our properties. Some competing properties may be newer, better located or more attractive to tenants. Competing properties may have lower rates of occupancy than our properties, which may result in competing owners offering available space at lower rents than we offer at our properties. Development activities may increase the supply of properties of the type we own in the leasing markets in which we own properties and increase the competition we face. Competition may make it difficult for us to attract and retain tenants and may reduce the rents we are able to charge.. Ownership of real estate is subject to environmental risks.. Ownership of real estate is subject to risks associated with environmental hazards. We may be liable for environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our properties, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, abutters or other persons. Various federal and state laws impose liabilities upon property owners, including us, for environmental damages arising at, or migrating from, owned properties, and we may be liable for the costs of environmental investigation and clean up at, or near, our properties. As an owner or previous owner of properties, we also may be liable to pay damages to government agencies or third parties for costs and damages they incur arising from environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our properties. The costs and damages that may arise from environmental hazards are often difficult to project and may be substantial.. In addition, we believe some of our properties may contain asbestos. We believe any asbestos on our properties is contained in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and we have no current plans to remove it. If we removed the asbestos or demolished the affected properties, certain environmental regulations govern the manner in which the asbestos must be handled and removed, and we could incur substantial costs complying with such regulations.. 31. Table of Contents. Environmental liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition and result in losses.. Our leases generally require our tenants to operate in compliance with applicable law and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from their activities on our properties. However, applicable law may make us subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interests. Also, our tenants may be unwilling or have insufficient financial resources to satisfy their indemnification obligations under our leases. Furthermore, such liabilities or obligations may affect the ability of some tenants to pay their rents to us. Further, in the Transaction Agreement, we have agreed to indemnify SIR for any environmental conditions at the properties SIR contributed to us in connection with the IPO.. We do not have any insurance to limit losses that we may incur as a result of known or unknown environmental conditions. As of December 31, 2017, we had reserved approximately $7.0 million for potential environmental liabilities arising at our properties. However, environmental exposures are difficult to assess and estimate for numerous reasons, including uncertainty about the extent of contamination, alternative treatment methods that may be applied, the location of the property which subjects it to differing local laws and regulations and their interpretations, as well as the time it may take to remediate contamination.. Ownership of real estate is subject to climate change risks.. Some observers believe severe weather in different parts of the world over the last few years is evidence of global climate change. Severe weather may have an adverse effect on certain properties we own. Rising sea levels could cause flooding at some of our properties, including some of our Hawaii Properties, which may have an adverse effect on individual properties we own. Also, the political debate about climate change has resulted in various treaties, laws and regulations that are intended to limit carbon emissions. These or future laws may cause operating costs at our properties to increase. Laws enacted to mitigate climate change may make some of our buildings obsolete or require us to make material investments in our properties which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and cause the value of our securities to decline.. Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities.. In addition to the risks discussed above, our business is subject to other risks associated with real estate ownership, including:. • the illiquid nature of real estate markets, which limits our ability to sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing market conditions;. • the subjectivity of real estate valuations and changes in such valuations over time;. • current and future adverse national real estate trends, including increasing vacancy rates, declining rental rates and general deterioration of market conditions;. • costs that may be incurred relating to property maintenance and repair, and the need to make expenditures due to changes in government regulations; and. • liabilities and litigations arising from injuries on our properties or otherwise incidental to the ownership of our properties.. We have debt and we may incur additional debt.. As of December 31, 2017, our consolidated indebtedness was $799.4 million and our ratio of consolidated net debt to total gross assets (total assets plus accumulated depreciation) was 53.8%, and we had no availability for borrowing under our $750.0 million revolving credit facility. The agreement governing our revolving credit facility, or our credit agreement, includes a feature under which the maximum borrowing availability may be increased to up to $1.5 billion in certain circumstances.. We are subject to numerous risks associated with our debt, including the risk that our cash flows could be insufficient to meet required payments on our debt. There are no limits in our organizational documents on the amount of debt we may incur, and we may incur substantial debt. Our debt obligations could have important consequences to our securityholders. Our incurring debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, market and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, and place us at a disadvantage in relation to competitors that have lower debt levels. Excessive debt could limit our ability to obtain financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions,. 32. Table of Contents. construction projects, refinancing, lease obligations or other purposes and hinder our ability to obtain investment grade ratings from nationally recognized credit rating agencies or to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders.. If we default under any of our debt obligations, we may be in default under the agreements governing other debt obligations of ours which have cross default provisions, including our credit agreement. In such case, our lenders may demand immediate payment of any outstanding indebtedness and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process.. We may fail to comply with the terms of our credit agreement, which could adversely affect our business and may prevent our making distributions to our shareholders.. Our credit agreement includes various conditions, covenants and events of default. We may not be able to satisfy all of these conditions or may default on some of these covenants for various reasons, including for reasons beyond our control. For example, our credit agreement requires us to maintain certain debt service ratios. Our ability to comply with such covenants will depend upon the net rental income we receive from our properties. If the occupancy at our properties declines or if our rents decline, we may be unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility. Complying with these covenants may limit our ability to take actions that may be beneficial to us and our securityholders.. If we are unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility, we may be unable to meet our obligations or grow our business by acquiring additional properties. If we default under our revolving credit facility, our lenders may demand immediate payment and may elect not to fund future borrowings. During the continuance of any event of default under our credit agreement, we may be limited or in some cases prohibited from making distributions to our shareholders. Any default under our credit agreement that results in acceleration of our obligations to repay outstanding indebtedness or in our no longer being permitted to borrow under our revolving credit facility would likely have serious adverse consequences to us and would likely cause the value of our securities to decline.. In the future, we may obtain additional debt financing, and the covenants and conditions which apply to any such additional debt may be more restrictive than the covenants and conditions that are contained in our credit agreement.. Insurance may not adequately cover our losses.. The tenants at our properties are generally responsible for the costs of insurance, including for casualty, liability, fire, extended coverage and rental or business interruption loss insurance. In the future, we may acquire properties for which we are responsible for the costs of insurance. Losses of a catastrophic nature, such as those caused by hurricanes, flooding, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes, among other things, may be covered by insurance policies with limitations such as large deductibles or co-payments that we or a responsible tenant may not be able to pay. Insurance proceeds may not be adequate to restore an affected property to its condition prior to a loss or to compensate us for our losses, including the loss of future revenues from an affected property. Similarly, our other insurance, including our general liability insurance, might not provide adequate insurance to cover our losses.. Real estate construction and redevelopment creates risks.. We may develop new properties or redevelop some of our existing properties as the existing leases expire, as our tenants' needs change or to pursue any other opportunities that we believe are desirable. The development and redevelopment of new and existing buildings involves significant risks in addition to those involved in the ownership and operation of leased properties, including the risks that construction may not be completed on schedule or within budget, resulting in increased construction costs and delays in leasing such properties and generating cash flows. Development activities are also subject to risks relating to the inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy, and other required government permits and authorizations. Once completed, any new properties may perform below anticipated financial results. The occurrence of one or more of these circumstances in connection with our development or redevelopment activities could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the value of our securities.. We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws.. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act and certain similar state statutes, many commercial properties must meet specified requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures at our properties to comply with these laws. In addition, non-compliance could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages and costs to private litigants. These expenditures may have an adverse impact on our financial results and the value of our securities.. 33. Table of Contents. Our business could be adversely impacted if there are deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting.. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. There can be no guarantee that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Deficiencies, including any material weaknesses, in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting could result in misstatements of our results of operations or our financial statements or could otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. RMR LLC relies on information technology and systems in its operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology or those systems could materially and adversely affect us.. RMR LLC relies on information technology and systems, including the Internet and commercially available software, to process, transmit, store and safeguard information and to manage or support a variety of its business processes (including managing our building systems), including financial transactions and maintenance of records, which may include personal identifying information of employees and tenants and lease data. If RMR LLC experiences material security or other failures, inadequacies or interruptions of its information technology, it could incur material costs and losses and our operations could be disrupted as a result. Further, third party vendors could experience similar events with respect to their information technology and systems that impact the products and services they provide to RMR LLC or us. RMR LLC relies on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring, as well as its internal procedures and personnel, to provide security for processing, transmitting, storing and safeguarding confidential tenant, customer and vendor information, such as personally identifiable information related to its employees and others and information regarding its and our financial accounts. RMR LLC takes various actions, and incurs significant costs, to maintain and protect the operation and security of its information technology and systems, including the data maintained in those systems. However, it is possible that these measures will not prevent the systems' improper functioning or a compromise in security, such as in the event of a cyberattack or the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information.. Security breaches, computer viruses, attacks by hackers, online fraud schemes and similar breaches can create significant system disruptions, shutdowns, fraudulent transfer of assets or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. For example, in June 2017, RMR LLC became aware that it had been a victim of criminal fraud in which a person pretending to be a representative of a seller in a property acquisition transaction provided fraudulent money wire instructions that caused money to be wire transferred to an account that was believed to be, but was not, the seller's account. We were not involved in that transaction and we did not incur any loss from that transaction; however, there may be a risk that similar fraudulent activities could be attempted against us, RMR LLC or others with respect to our assets. The cybersecurity risks to RMR LLC, us and third party vendors are heightened by, among other things, the evolving nature of the threats faced, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography and new and increasingly sophisticated methods used to perpetrate illegal or fraudulent activities against RMR LLC, including cyberattacks, email or wire fraud and other attacks exploiting security vulnerabilities in RMR LLC's or other third parties' information technology networks and systems or operations. Any failure to maintain the security, proper function and availability of RMR LLC's information technology and systems, or certain third party vendors' failure to similarly protect their information technology and systems that are relevant to RMR LLC's or our operations, or to safeguard RMR LLC's or our business processes, assets and information could result in financial losses, interrupt RMR LLC's operations, damage RMR LLC's reputation, cause RMR LLC to be in default of material contracts and subject RMR LLC to liability claims or regulatory penalties. Any or all of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business and the value of our securities.. The reduced disclosure requirements applicable to us as an \"emerging growth company\" may make our common shares less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, and we may avail ourselves of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements of public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies,\" including, but not limited to, an exemption from complying with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirement of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may remain an emerging growth company for up to five full fiscal years following the IPO. If some investors find our common shares less attractive as a result of the exemptions available to us as an emerging growth company, there may be a less active trading market for our common shares, and the trading price of our common shares may be more volatile than that of an otherwise. 34. Table of Contents. comparable company that does not avail itself of the same or similar exemptions. We cannot predict if investors will find our common shares less attractive because we rely on the JOBS Act exemptions.. Changes in lease accounting standards may materially and adversely affect us.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board adopted new accounting rules to be effective for fiscal years ending after December 2018, which will require companies to capitalize substantially all leases on their balance sheets by recognizing a lessee's rights and obligations. When the final rules are effective, many companies that account for certain leases on an \"off balance sheet\" basis will be required to account for such leases \"on balance sheet.\" This change will remove many of the differences in the way companies account for owned property and leased property and could have a material effect on various aspects of our tenants' businesses, including the appearance of their credit quality and other factors they consider in deciding whether to own or lease properties. When the rules are effective, or as the effective date approaches, these rules could cause companies that lease properties to prefer shorter lease terms in an effort to reduce the leasing liability required to be recorded on their balance sheets or some companies may decide to prefer property ownership to leasing. Such decisions by our current or prospective tenants may adversely impact our business and the value of our securities.. Risks Related to Our Relationships with SIR, RMR Inc. and RMR LLC. SIR owns 69.2% of our common shares. As a result, investors in our securities will have less influence over our business than shareholders of most other publicly owned companies.. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, SIR owned 69.2% of our outstanding common shares. For as long as SIR retains a significant ownership of our common shares, SIR may be able to elect all of the members of our Board of Trustees, including our Independent Trustees, and may effectively control the outcome of all shareholder actions and, through our Board of Trustees, determinations with respect to our management, business plans and policies, including:. • our acquisition or disposition of assets, financing activities and plans, capital structure, distributions on our common shares, corporate policies and the appointment and removal of our officers, among others;. • determinations with respect to mergers and other business combinations; and. • the number of common shares available for issuance under our equity compensation plan.. SIR's majority ownership in us may discourage transactions involving a change of control of us, including transactions in which holders of our common shares might otherwise receive a premium for their common shares over the then current market price.. SIR's sale of some or all of its ownership stake in us, acquisition of additional shares of us and speculation about any such possible transactions may adversely affect the market price of our common shares.. After July 10, 2018, SIR will not be prohibited from selling some or all of our common shares it owns or purchasing additional common shares of ours, subject to applicable requirements of the federal securities laws. Speculation by the press, stock analysts, our shareholders or others regarding SIR's intention with respect to its investment in us could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. So long as SIR continues to retain significant ownership in us, the market price of our common shares may be adversely impacted.. We are dependent upon RMR LLC to manage our business and implement our growth strategy.. We have no employees. Personnel and services that we require are provided to us by RMR LLC pursuant to our management agreements with RMR LLC. Our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on RMR LLC and its ability to manage our properties, identify and complete our acquisitions and dispositions and to execute our growth strategy. Accordingly, our business is dependent upon RMR LLC's business contacts, its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage its personnel and its ability to maintain its operating systems. If we lose the services provided by RMR LLC or its key personnel, our business and growth prospects may decline. We may be unable to duplicate the quality and depth of management available to us by becoming internally managed or by hiring another manager. In the event RMR LLC is unwilling or unable to continue to provide management services to us, our cost of obtaining substitute services may be greater than the fees we pay RMR LLC under our management agreements, and as a result our expenses may increase.. 35. Table of Contents. Our management structure and agreements and relationships with SIR and RMR LLC and RMR LLC's and its controlling shareholder's relationships with others may create conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts, and may restrict our investment activities.. Our manager, RMR LLC, is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines and, therefore, has discretion in determining the properties that will be appropriate investments for us, as well as our individual operating and investment decisions. Our Board of Trustees periodically reviews our operating and investment guidelines and our operating activities and investments but it does not review or approve each decision made by RMR LLC on our behalf. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Trustees relies primarily on information provided to it by RMR LLC.. RMR LLC is a majority owned subsidiary of RMR Inc. ABP Trust is the controlling shareholder of RMR Inc. One of our Managing Trustees, Adam Portnoy, is the sole trustee of, and owns beneficial interest in, ABP Trust. Our former Managing Trustee, Barry Portnoy, served as a trustee and owned a majority of the beneficial interest in ABP Trust until his death on February 25, 2018. Adam Portnoy is a managing director and an officer and, as the sole trustee of ABP Trust, is the controlling shareholder of RMR Inc. and is an officer of RMR LLC. Adam Portnoy, as the sole trustee of ABP Trust, beneficially owns all the class A membership units of RMR LLC not owned by RMR Inc. RMR LLC or its subsidiaries also act as the manager for SIR and four other Nasdaq listed REITs: GOV, which primarily owns properties that are majority leased to government tenants and office properties in the metropolitan Washington, D.C. market area that may also be leased to private sector tenants; HPT, which owns hotels and travel centers; SNH, which primarily owns healthcare, senior living properties and medical office buildings; and TRMT, which primarily originates and invests in first mortgage loans secured by middle market and transitional commercial real estate. RMR LLC or its subsidiaries also provide services to other publicly and privately owned companies, including: Five Star, which operates senior living communities; TA, which operates and franchises travel centers, convenience stores and restaurants; and Sonesta, which operates, manages and franchises hotels, resorts and cruise ships. An affiliate of RMR LLC is an investment adviser to the RMR Real Estate Income Fund, or RIF, a closed end investment company listed on the NYSE American, which primarily invests in securities of REITs that are not managed by RMR LLC.. Each of our executive officers is also an officer of RMR LLC, including one of our current Managing Trustees and our President and Chief Operating Officer, John Popeo, who is also the chief financial officer and treasurer of SIR. Because our executive officers have duties to RMR LLC, and John Popeo has duties to SIR, as well as to us, we do not have their undivided attention. They may have conflicts in allocating their time and resources between us and RMR LLC and other companies to which RMR LLC provides services. Our Independent Trustees also serve as independent directors or independent trustees of other public companies to which RMR LLC or its subsidiaries provide management services.. In addition to their investments in RMR Inc. and RMR LLC, our current and former Managing Trustees hold equity investments in other companies to which RMR LLC or its subsidiaries provide management services and some of these companies, including us, have significant cross ownership interests, including, for example: as of February 23, 2018, Adam Portnoy, one of our current Managing Trustees, and Barry Portnoy, our former Managing Trustee, owned, directly or indirectly, in aggregate 36.4% of Five Star's outstanding common stock, 1.8% of GOV's outstanding common shares, 1.5% of HPT's outstanding common shares, 1.9% of SIR's outstanding common shares, 1.3% of SNH's outstanding common shares and 10.7% of RIF's outstanding common shares; SIR owns 69.2% of our outstanding common shares; GOV owns 27.8% of SIR's outstanding common shares; HPT owns 8.6% of TA's outstanding common shares; SNH owns 8.4% of Five Star's outstanding common stock; and Tremont Realty Advisors LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of RMR LLC, owns 19.2% of TRMT's outstanding common shares. Our executive officers may also own equity investments in other companies to which RMR LLC or its subsidiaries provide management services. These multiple responsibilities, relationships and cross ownerships could create competition for the time and efforts of RMR LLC, our Managing Trustees and other RMR LLC personnel, including our executive officers, and give rise to conflicts of interest or the appearance of such conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, RMR Inc., RMR LLC, our Managing Trustees, the other companies to which RMR LLC or its subsidiaries provide management services and their related parties. Conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest could have a material adverse impact on our reputation, business and the market price of our common shares and other securities and we may be subject to increased risk of litigation as a result.. In our management agreements with RMR LLC, we acknowledge that RMR LLC may engage in other activities or businesses and act as the manager to any other person or entity (including other REITs) even though such person or entity has investment policies and objectives similar to our policies and objectives and we are not entitled to preferential treatment in receiving information, recommendations and other services from RMR LLC. Accordingly, we may lose investment opportunities to, and may compete for tenants with, other businesses managed by RMR LLC or its subsidiaries. We cannot be sure that our Code of Conduct or our Governance Guidelines, or other procedural protections we adopt will be sufficient to enable us to identify, adequately address or mitigate actual or alleged conflicts of interest or ensure that our transactions with. 36. Table of Contents. related persons are made on terms that are at least as favorable to us as those that would have been obtained with an unrelated person.. Our management agreements were not negotiated on an arm's length basis and their fee structure may not create proper incentives for RMR LLC, which may increase the risk of an investment in our common shares.. As a result of our relationships with RMR LLC, our management agreements were not negotiated on an arm's length basis between unrelated parties, and therefore the terms, including the fees payable to RMR LLC, may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if they were negotiated on an arm's length basis between unrelated parties. Our property management fees are calculated based on rents we receive and construction supervision fees for construction at our properties overseen and managed by RMR LLC, and our base business management fee is calculated based upon the lower of the historical cost of our real estate investments and our market capitalization. These fee arrangements could incentivize RMR LLC to pursue acquisitions, capital transactions, tenancies and construction projects or to avoid disposing of our assets in order to increase or maintain its management fees. If we do not effectively manage our investment, disposition and capital transactions and leasing, construction and other property management activities, we may pay increased management fees without proportional benefits to us. In addition, we pay RMR LLC substantial base management fees regardless of our financial results. RMR LLC's entitlement to a base management fee might reduce its incentive to devote its time and effort to seeking investments that provide attractive returns for us.. The termination of our management agreements may require us to pay a substantial termination fee, including in the case of a termination for unsatisfactory performance, which may limit our ability to end our relationship with RMR LLC.. The terms of our management agreements with RMR LLC automatically extend on December 31st of each year so that such terms thereafter end on the 20th anniversary of the date of the extension. We have the right to terminate these agreements: (1) at any time on 60 days' written notice for convenience, (2) immediately upon written notice for cause, as defined in the agreements, (3) on written notice given within 60 days after the end of any applicable calendar year for a performance reason, as defined in the agreements, and (4) by written notice during the 12 months following a manager change of control, as defined in the agreements. However, if we terminate a management agreement for convenience, or if RMR LLC terminates a management agreement with us for good reason, as defined in such agreement, we are obligated to pay RMR LLC a termination fee in an amount equal to the sum of the present values of the monthly future fees, as defined in the applicable agreement, payable to RMR LLC for the then remaining term, which depending on the time of termination, would be between 19 and 20 years. Additionally, if we terminate a management agreement for a performance reason, as defined in the agreement, we are obligated to pay RMR LLC the termination fee calculated as described above, but assuming a remaining term of 10 years. These provisions substantially increase the cost to us of terminating the management agreements without cause, which may limit our ability to end our relationship with RMR LLC as our manager. The payment of the termination fee could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, including our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders.. Our management arrangements with RMR LLC may discourage a change of control of us.. Our management agreements with RMR LLC have continuing 20 year terms that renew annually. As noted in the preceding risk factor, if we terminate either of these management agreements other than for cause or upon a change of control of our manager, we are obligated to pay RMR LLC a substantial termination fee. For these reasons, our management agreements with RMR LLC may discourage a change of control of us, including a change of control which might result in payment of a premium for our common shares.. We may be at an increased risk for dissident shareholder activities due to perceived conflicts of interest arising from our management structure.. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident shareholder trustee nominations and dissident shareholder proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated and related persons and entities. Our relationships with SIR, RMR Inc., RMR LLC, the other businesses and entities to which RMR LLC or its subsidiaries provide management services, Adam Portnoy and other related persons of RMR LLC may precipitate such activities. Certain proxy advisory firms which have significant influence over the voting by shareholders of public companies may recommend that shareholders withhold votes for the election of our Trustee nominees, vote against our say on pay vote or other management proposals or vote for shareholder proposals that we oppose. These recommendations may affect the outcome of our Board elections and impact our governance, which may increase shareholder activism and litigation. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs, and diversion of our management's attention and could have a material adverse impact on our reputation and business.. 37. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. Ownership limitations and certain provisions in our declaration of trust, bylaws and contracts, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals.. Our declaration of trust prohibits any shareholder other than SIR and RMR LLC and their affiliates (as defined under Maryland law) and certain persons who have been exempted by our Board of Trustees from owning, directly and by attribution, more than 9.8% of the number or value of shares (whichever is more restrictive) of any class or series of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest, including our common shares. This provision of our declaration of trust is intended to, among other purposes, assist with our REIT compliance under the IRC and otherwise promote our orderly governance. However, this provision may also inhibit acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may deter, delay or prevent a change in control of us or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a shareholder may consider favorable. Additionally, provisions contained in our declaration of trust and bylaws or under Maryland law may have a similar impact, including, for example, provisions relating to:. • the division of our Trustees into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year, which could delay a change of control of us;. • limitations on shareholder voting rights with respect to certain actions that are not approved by our Board of Trustees;. • the authority of our Board of Trustees, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws and to fill vacancies on our Board of Trustees;. • shareholder voting standards which require a supermajority for approval of certain actions;. • the fact that only our Board of Trustees, or, if there are no Trustees, our officers, may call shareholder meetings and that shareholders are not entitled to act without a meeting;. • required qualifications for an individual to serve as a Trustee and a requirement that certain of our Trustees be \"Managing Trustees\" and other Trustees be \"Independent Trustees,\" as defined in our governing documents;. • limitations on the ability of our shareholders to propose nominees for election as Trustees and propose other business to be considered at a meeting of our shareholders;. • limitations on the ability of our shareholders to remove our Trustees; and. • the authority of our Board of Trustees to create and issue new classes or series of shares (including shares with voting rights and other rights and privileges that may deter a change in control) and issue additional common shares.. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our Trustees and officers are limited.. Our declaration of trust limits the liability of our Trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our Trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from:. • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or. • active and deliberate dishonesty by the Trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated.. Our declaration of trust and indemnification agreements require us, to indemnify any present or former Trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, who is made or threatened to be made a party to a proceeding by reason of his or her service in these and certain other capacities. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our declaration of trust and indemnification. 38. Table of Contents. agreements or that might exist with other companies, which could limit our shareholders' recourse in the event of actions not in their best interest.. Disputes with RMR LLC and shareholder litigation against us or our Trustees and officers may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings.. Our contracts with RMR LLC provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Similarly, our bylaws provide that certain actions by our shareholders against us or against our Trustees and officers, other than disputes, or any portion thereof, regarding the meaning, interpretation or validity of any provision of our declaration of trust or bylaws, may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation in courts against RMR LLC or our Trustees and officers for disputes referred to arbitration in accordance with our bylaws. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration proceedings, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding.. Our bylaws designate the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland as the sole and exclusive forum for certain actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our Trustees, officers, manager, agents or employees.. Our bylaws currently provide that, unless the dispute has been referred to binding arbitration, the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland will be the sole and exclusive forum for: (1) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (2) any action asserting a claim for breach of a duty owed by any Trustee, officer, manager, agent or employee of ours to us or our shareholders; (3) any action asserting a claim against us or any Trustee, officer, manager, agent or employee of ours arising pursuant to Maryland law, our declaration of trust or bylaws brought by or on behalf of a shareholder; or (4) any action asserting a claim against us or any Trustee, officer, manager, agent or employee of ours that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Our bylaws currently also provide that the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland will be the sole and exclusive forum for any dispute, or portion thereof, regarding the meaning, interpretation or validity of any provision of our declaration of trust or bylaws. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring or holding any interest in our shares of beneficial interest shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to these provisions of our bylaws, as they may be amended from time to time. These choice of forum provisions may limit a shareholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the shareholder believes is favorable for disputes with us or our Trustees, officers, manager, agents or employees, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our Trustees, officers, manager or agents.. We may change our operational, financing and investment policies without shareholder approval and we may become more highly leveraged, which may increase our risk of default under our debt obligations.. Our Board of Trustees determines our operational, financing and investment policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Further, our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness, funded or otherwise, that we may incur. Our Board of Trustees may alter or eliminate our current policy on borrowing at any time without shareholder approval. If this policy changes, we could become more highly leveraged, which could result in an increase in our debt service costs. Higher leverage also increases the risk of default on our obligations. In addition, a change in our investment policies, including the manner in which we allocate our resources across our portfolio or the types of assets in which we seek to invest, may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, real estate market fluctuations and liquidity risk.. Risks Related to Our Taxation. Our failure to qualify or to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC could have significant adverse consequences.. We intend to elect and qualify for taxation as a REIT under the IRC commencing with our taxable year ending December 31, 2018 and to maintain that qualification thereafter.  As a REIT, we generally will not pay federal or most state income taxes as long as we distribute all of our REIT taxable income and meet other qualifications set forth in the IRC. However, actual qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC depends on our satisfying complex statutory requirements, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. We believe that we have been organized and have operated, and will continue to be organized and to operate, in a manner that will allow us to qualify and continue to qualify for. 39. Table of Contents. taxation as a REIT under the IRC, pending our timely election with our first REIT income tax return. However, we cannot be sure that the IRS, upon review or audit, will agree with this conclusion. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that the federal government, or any state or other taxation authority, will continue to afford favorable income tax treatment to REITs and their shareholders.. Maintaining our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC will require us to continue to satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amounts we distribute to our shareholders. In order to meet these requirements, it may be necessary for us to sell or forgo attractive investments.. If we fail to qualify or to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, then our ability to raise capital might be adversely affected, we will be in breach under our credit agreement, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the market price of our common shares could decline. In addition, if we lose or revoke our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC for a taxable year, we will generally be prevented from requalifying for taxation as a REIT for the next four taxable years.. Distributions to shareholders generally will not qualify for reduced tax rates applicable to \"qualified dividends.\". Dividends payable by U.S. corporations to noncorporate shareholders, such as individuals, trusts and estates, are generally eligible for reduced federal income tax rates applicable to \"qualified dividends.\" Distributions paid by REITs generally are not treated as \"qualified dividends\" under the IRC and the reduced rates applicable to such dividends do not generally apply. However, for tax years beginning before 2026, REIT dividends paid to noncorporate shareholders are generally taxed at an effective tax rate lower than applicable ordinary income tax rates due to the availability of a deduction under the IRC for specified forms of income from passthrough entities. More favorable rates will nevertheless continue to apply to regular corporate \"qualified\" dividends, which may cause some investors to perceive that an investment in a REIT is less attractive than an investment in a non-REIT entity that pays dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our common shares.. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.. We generally will be required to distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, subject to specified adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT under the IRC. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, federal corporate income tax will not apply to the earnings that we distribute, but if we distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, then we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the IRC. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws.. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, among other things, we may borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions in order to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our shareholders' equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT distribution requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could cause the market price of our common shares to decline.. Even if we qualify and remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow.. Even if we qualify and remain qualified for taxation as a REIT under the IRC, we may be subject to federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, excise taxes, state or local income, property and transfer taxes, and other taxes. Also, some jurisdictions may in the future limit or eliminate favorable income tax deductions, including the dividends paid deduction, which could increase our income tax expense. In addition, in order to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the IRC, prevent the recognition of particular types of non-cash income, or avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to specified gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold or dispose of some of our assets and conduct some of our operations through TRSs or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. In addition, while we intend that our transactions with our TRSs will be conducted on arm's length bases, we may be subject to a 100% excise tax on a transaction that the IRS or. 40. Table of Contents. a court determines was not conducted at arm's length. Any of these taxes could decrease our cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could materially and adversely affect us and our shareholders.. The rules dealing with U.S. federal, state, and local taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and other taxation authorities. Changes to the tax laws, with or without retroactive application, could materially and adversely affect us and our shareholders. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect us or our shareholders. New legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify or to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT or the tax consequences of such qualification.. In addition, December 2017 legislation has made substantial changes to the IRC. Among those changes are a significant permanent reduction in the generally applicable corporate income tax rate, changes in the taxation of individuals and other noncorporate taxpayers that generally reduce their taxes on a temporary basis subject to \"sunset\" provisions, the elimination or modification of various deductions (including substantial limitation of the deduction for personal state and local taxes imposed on individuals), and preferential taxation of income derived by individuals from passthrough entities in comparison to earnings received directly by individuals.  This legislation also imposes additional limitations on the deduction of net operating losses, which may in the future cause us to make additional distributions that will be taxable to our shareholders to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits in order to comply with the REIT distribution requirements.  The effect of these and other changes made in this legislation is highly uncertain, both in terms of their direct effect on the taxation of an investment in our common shares and their indirect effect on the value of properties owned by us.  Furthermore, many of the provisions of the new law will require the issuance of administrative guidance in order to assess their effect. There may be a substantial delay before such guidance is promulgated, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate effect of the statutory amendments on us or our shareholders.  It is also possible that there will be technical corrections legislation proposed with respect to the new law, the effect of which cannot be predicted and may be adverse to us or our shareholders.. Risks Related to Our Securities. Our distributions to our shareholders may decline.. We intend to make regular quarterly distributions to our shareholders. However:. • our ability to make or sustain the rate of distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K occur;. • our making of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our credit agreement and may be subject to restrictions in future debt obligations we may incur; and. • the timing and amount of any distributions will be determined at the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend on various factors that our Board of Trustees deems relevant, including our financial condition, our results of operations, our liquidity, our capital requirements, our FFO, our Normalized FFO, restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements, general economic conditions in the United States, including Hawaii, requirements of the IRC to qualify for taxation as a REIT and restrictions under the laws of Maryland.. For these reasons, among others, our distribution rate may decline or we may cease making distributions to our shareholders.. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the value of our securities.. As with other publicly traded equity securities and REIT securities, the value of our common shares and other securities depends on various market conditions that are subject to change from time to time, including:. • the extent of investor interest in our securities;. • the general reputation of REITs and externally managed companies and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate based companies or by other issuers less sensitive to rises in interest rates;. 41. Table of Contents. • our underlying asset value;. • investor confidence in the stock and bond markets, generally;. • market interest rates;. • national economic conditions;. • changes in tax laws;. • changes in our credit ratings; and. • general market conditions.. We believe that one of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell equity securities of a REIT is the distribution rate, considered as a percentage of the price of the equity securities, relative to market interest rates. Interest rates have been at historically low levels for an extended period of time. There is a general market perception that REIT shares outperform in low interest rate environments and underperform in rising interest rate environments when compared to the broader market. Since December 2016, the U.S. Federal Reserve has raised its benchmark interest rate by 125 basis points, and there are some market expectations that market interest rates will rise further in the near to intermediate term. If market interest rates continue to increase, or if there continues to be market expectation of such increases, prospective purchasers of REIT equity securities may want to achieve a higher distribution rate. Thus, higher market interest rates, or the expectation of higher interest rates, could cause the value of our securities to decline.. Further issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to current shareholders.. The interests of our existing shareholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities to finance future acquisitions or to repay indebtedness. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, which may include secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, which may include common and preferred shares."
