[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. Our business is subject to a number of risks, including risks that may prevent us from achieving our business objectives or may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay dividends. You should carefully consider these risks together with all the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. If any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Our regulated assets and Sharyland's operations are subject to governmental regulation and oversight that could adversely impact our expected returns and operating results.. Both Sharyland and SDTS, our subsidiary, are regulated by the PUCT, and decisions by the PUCT, including in some circumstances in which we are not involved directly as a party, can directly impact our business. Rate regulation is premised on the timely recovery of prudently incurred costs and the opportunity to earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, although, over time, the PUCT may change its position regarding a reasonable rate of return on invested capital through changes to our allowed return on equity and capital structure, the timelines of adding capital invested to our rate base and any other adjustments to our rate base. Additionally, there is no assurance that the PUCT will determine that all of our rate base can be recovered through rates, or that the PUCT will not otherwise make regulatory determinations that adversely affect our regulated assets or Sharyland's operations. The PUCT could, among other things, determine that certain of our capital expenditures should not be included in rates, or the PUCT could challenge other regulatory judgments, such as those related to affiliate charges, operations and maintenance expenses, tax elections, rate case expenses, regulatory assets and other matters. Also, if the PUCT makes a determination that adversely affects the amount of our rate base, we may need to take accounting charges that impair our assets, which could further adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further, any transfer of our assets or change of control involving us would be subject to the approval of the PUCT.. A number of fundamental legal and policy issues were raised as part of our 2016 Rate Case, including questions regarding whether our leases with Sharyland are tariffs under PURA that are subject to regulation by the PUCT and challenges to the recovery of an income tax allowance by a utility organized in a REIT structure. The Rate Case Dismissal preserved the right of the parties to the 2016 Rate Case to address in a future proceeding all issues not mooted by the Rate Case Dismissal. Therefore, it is possible that in a future proceeding parties may again argue that our leases, including the rent rates that SDTS charges Sharyland for its lease of the regulated assets owned by SDTS, should be directly regulated by the PUCT as tariffs under PURA, question our ability to recover an income tax allowance or raise various other issues that were in dispute in our 2016 Rate Case.. 16. Under the terms of the Rate Case Dismissal, Sharyland and SDTS are required to file a new rate case in the calendar year 2020, based on a test year ending December 31, 2019, and the PUCT has the authority to require us to file a new rate case earlier. Although we cannot predict what issues will be raised in that rate case or what the outcome of any particular issue will be, it is possible that the consideration and resolution of any of the issues that were previously raised in our 2016 Rate Case or other regulatory determinations could result in regulatory requirements or outcomes that adversely affect the amount of rent we receive from Sharyland or Sharyland's ability to meet its obligations to pay us rent pursuant to the leases, or that otherwise materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, limit our ability to timely recover our capital investments, challenge our ability to continue to operate as a REIT under applicable tax laws or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business.. In addition, our regulated assets and Sharyland's operations are subject to a variety of other U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations, including laws and regulations related to regulatory matters; environmental health and safety matters; and human health and safety matters. We generally rely on Sharyland to ensure compliance with these laws and rules, and, in most circumstances, Sharyland is required under our leases to remedy the effect of any non-compliance during the term of the applicable lease. Compliance with the requirements under these various regulatory regimes may cause us or Sharyland to incur significant additional costs, and failure to comply with these requirements could result in the shutdown of the non-complying assets and the imposition of liens, fines and/or civil or criminal liability. Utility operations may also be affected by legislative and regulatory changes, as well as changes to market design, market rules, tariffs and cost allocation by regulatory authorities. We cannot predict what effect any such changes in the regulatory environment will have on us or Sharyland's operations.. The enactment of the TCJA will, over time, have the effect of decreasing the relative advantages of our business model and, if we determine to terminate our REIT status, the effects of this change in tax status could have adverse implications on our financial results or otherwise have a negative effect on us or our stockholders.. The TCJA includes a reduction in the corporate federal income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2018. In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 980, Regulated Operations, Section 405, Liabilities, we have recorded a regulatory liability for the amount of excess accumulated deferred federal income tax (ADFIT) associated with the lower corporate federal income tax rate. See the caption Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Regulatory Adjustment under Significant Components of Our Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7., Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Additionally, our lease supplements currently assume Sharyland's recovery in rates of an income tax allowance of the 35% corporate federal income tax rate; however, at the request of the PUCT, Sharyland has agreed to reduce its WTS rate to reflect an income tax allowance at the reduced corporate federal income tax rate. This reduction will impact our percentage rent revenues, which are calculated based on a percentage of Sharyland's gross revenue. Additionally, lease payments for future assets placed in service or upon the renewal of our leases will reflect a reduction in Sharyland's rates and the impact of the regulatory liability, which will result in a reduction, relative to the existing lease terms, in the amount of lease revenue we receive per dollar of rate base. Further, in the future Sharyland could request a reduction in the existing lease payments to reflect these changes. In light of the foregoing as well as the other potential impacts of the TCJA, the TCJA will, over time, have the effect of decreasing the relative economic benefits of owning utility assets in a REIT structure, as compared to a traditional C-corporation structure. See Company Structure Review under Item 1., Business.. Our charter provides our board of directors with the power, under certain circumstances, to revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election and cause us to be taxed as a corporation, without the vote of our stockholders. The ultimate impact of any decision to terminate our REIT status on us or on our financial position would be subject to a number of variables, both positive and negative, the net effect of which we cannot predict at this time. In addition, if we determine to terminate our REIT status, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to our stockholders, and the amount of any dividend that we determine to pay may be reduced. Although our board of directors could cause us to terminate our REIT status only if it determined in good faith that it is in our best interest, it is possible that a change that the board of directors determines to be in our best interest may not be in the best interest of any particular stockholder.. 17. Conflicts of interest may arise in the event that we receive a going private offer from Hunt, and our relationships with Hunt and its affiliates could have a negative effect on other transactions that might be in the best interests of our stockholders.. On January 16, 2018, HCI filed an amendment to its Schedule 13D with the SEC confirming that it has been engaged in developing and evaluating various alternative arrangements to the existing business structures in place between us and Hunt, including a De-REIT transaction in which we would elect to no longer be treated as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, a sale by us of all or certain of our assets or operations to a third party, a business combination between us and a third party, a business combination between us or SDTS and Sharyland or other transactions that would significantly alter our organizational structure, business or ownership. HCI also stated in its Schedule 13D that, although Hunt will continue to develop and evaluate scenarios and consider other alternative arrangements, it does not have a high level of interest in pursuing an alternative that would involve a disposition of HCI's entire interest in us or our Operating Partnership. HCI further stated that Hunt intends to focus on evaluating and developing a \"going private\" transaction in which we would no longer be a publicly traded entity. See the caption Hunt's Schedule 13D under Our Relationship with Hunt included in Item 1., Business. Due to Hunt's ownership and control of Hunt Manager and its relationships with our management team and with three members of our board of directors, conflicts of interest will likely arise in the event that we were to receive a going private offer from Hunt or in the event we were to pursue one of the other alternative arrangements. See the caption Risks Related to Related Party Transactions and Conflicts of Interest below.. We currently rely on Hunt or its affiliates to perform a variety of functions for us, and our relationships with Hunt Manager, Hunt Developer and Sharyland are interrelated and subject to certain contractual limitations. Specifically, there are restrictions on our ability to terminate the leases with Sharyland. Additionally, we are only allowed to terminate the management agreement with Hunt Manager on or before December 31, 2018, to be effective December 31, 2019, and we are required to pay a termination fee equal to three times the most recent annualized base management and incentive payment, in each case except in the event of a termination \"for cause.\" There are also restrictions on our ability to terminate the development agreement with Hunt Developer. However, the development agreement with Hunt Developer expires automatically upon termination of the management agreement, regardless of whether the management agreement is terminated by us or by Hunt Manager (unless we terminate for cause), meaning that the termination of our relationship with Hunt Manager as our external manager would terminate our right of first offer with respect to ROFO Projects. Accordingly, the terms and limitations governing our arrangements with Hunt and Sharyland, and Hunt's stated intention to maintain a substantial equity stake in us that enables it to continue to actively participate in, and exercise a substantial degree of influence over, our business and affairs, may inhibit a competing acquisition proposal for us by any third party or lower the price we would receive in a competing transaction.. Because all of our lease revenues are currently generated by lease payments from Sharyland, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are dependent on Sharyland's financial and operating performance.. Sharyland's ability to make lease payments to us under our leases is subject to its ability to generate cash flows or raise additional capital sufficient to support its obligations. Sharyland has incurred both U.S. GAAP and management reported losses in the past. If Sharyland were to operate at a loss in future years, and if it is unable to obtain debt or equity capital to fund its cash needs, its financial condition and liquidity may suffer. Sharyland's liquidity and operating results will be negatively impacted by the decrease in its revenues that will result from its agreement to reduce its WTS rate to give effect to the TCJA, and may also be negatively impacted if its expenses increase rapidly, including for reasons outside of its control, before it is able to file and complete a full rate proceeding with the PUCT in order to recover the higher operation and maintenance expenses in its rates.. If Sharyland experiences declines in its financial and operating performance or liquidity constraints, it may request that we defer or waive its obligations under the leases, including its obligation to make lease payments to us or to cover certain emergency or other costs for which it is responsible under the leases, or, alternatively, it may seek to terminate its leases with us. In extraordinary circumstances, Sharyland may become insolvent or seek bankruptcy relief. Depending upon the sufficiency of assets available to pay claims, a rejection of the leases in bankruptcy or an insolvency of Sharyland could ultimately preclude full collection of sums due to us under our lease agreements and could place the financial burden for any of Sharyland's accrued obligations under the leases, such as costs for repairs, maintenance, and ad valorem or property taxes, on us without any corresponding ability on our part to either transfer the obligation for these costs to a new tenant, recoup these costs from third parties or otherwise avoid paying these costs. To the extent any such events occur, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.. 18. We will not be able to materially increase our lease revenue unless the rate base of our regulated assets grows.. There are two ways for us to increase our rate base and, as a result, our lease revenues, namely funding capital expenditures under our leases or acquiring additional regulated assets from Hunt or third parties. In recent years, our primary method for increasing our rate base has been funding Footprint Projects under our leases. There are a number of factors that could impact the amount of available investment in Footprint Projects, including the number of and capital needs associated with requests by electricity generators to connect to our transmission facilities as well as population, economic and load growth in and around the Permian Basin, where growth may be adversely affected by the impact of lower oil and gas prices on economic activity in the region. Further, as a result of the Asset Exchange Transaction, we now are focused on a transmission-based strategy, and we will forgo future retail distribution capital expenditures. Transmission projects, as compared to distribution projects, are typically larger projects that require lengthy regulatory approval processes and longer construction times. As a result, we may experience significant variability in our capital expenditures and our ability to grow our rate base and lease revenue is uncertain. Additionally, although historically the PUCT has generally favored the expansion and updating of the transmission infrastructure within its jurisdiction, if the PUCT were to change its view on transmission needs in Texas, or if those needs do not continue or develop as projected, our strategy of investing in transmission could be impacted.. Under the development agreement, we are prohibited from funding projects that qualify as ROFO Projects, even, in some circumstances, certain projects that connect to our transmission assets. Consequently, our ability to grow our rate base and revenues also depends in part on Hunt's ability to develop and construct ROFO Projects and our ability to acquire ROFO Projects or other regulated assets on acceptable terms. Accordingly, if Hunt is unable to develop ROFO Projects or we do not identify regulated assets that are attractive to us, or if we are unable to acquire ROFO Projects or other regulated assets on terms that are acceptable to us, we will not experience the rate base and lease revenue growth that we would otherwise expect, which could affect our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders.. The results of our negotiations of future rent payments under our leases and our ability to renew our leases upon their expiration, or to identify new tenants under our leases, will affect our operating results and financial condition.. We generally do not negotiate lease payments with respect to the capital expenditures that we fund until shortly before the beginning of the year in which we expect the related assets to be placed in service. As a result, we have not yet negotiated lease payments under our existing leases with respect to capital expenditures that we expect to fund and place in service subsequent to 2018. Although our existing leases provide that our historical agreements with Sharyland will serve as the basis for new rent payments, we expect that, as a result of the TCJA, the amount of revenue we receive per dollar of rate base will be lower with respect to future assets placed in service or upon renewal of our leases, as compared to our existing lease terms. Further, even after the impacts of the TCJA are reflected in our lease payments, there is no assurance that future negotiations of new or amended lease supplements will result in a certain level of lease payments or lease revenues.. Furthermore, the leases relating to approximately 90% of our current net assets expire on December 31, 2020, and our other existing leases expire at various times between December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2022. Although we and Sharyland have been able to negotiate several new leases and lease extensions in the last several years, there is no assurance that we and Sharyland will be able to renew or extend our leases on acceptable terms upon their expiration. We also have the right to terminate our leases upon Sharyland's breach, subject in some circumstances to applicable cure periods. However, terminating the leases, or entering into new leases with a different tenant following expiration of our leases with Sharyland, would require the approval of the PUCT and any other applicable regulatory bodies, which could be complex and costly and which we may not be able to obtain. Because other utilities in the state of Texas are structured as integrated utilities that own the assets they operate, we may not be able to identify a new tenant that is willing to operate assets that they do not own. Further, any new tenant would need to be a qualified and reputable operator of regulated assets with the wherewithal and capability of acting as our tenant and, if leasing a significant portion of our assets, would need to agree to timely provide us with their financial statements for us to include in the periodic reports we file under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). There is no assurance that we would be able to identify a tenant that meets these criteria efficiently or at all, or, if we are able to identify such tenant, that we would receive lease terms from such new tenant that are as favorable as our lease terms with Sharyland.. There may be significant lag time between the time we make capital expenditures and when we begin receiving rent with respect to such expenditures and, because of the lessor/lessee structure, if Sharyland's revenue increases in the future, our lease revenue will not increase as quickly as it would if we were operating as an integrated utility.. All our lease revenues currently come from lease payments from Sharyland. Under our lease agreements, we and Sharyland negotiate lease payments for our capital expenditures before the applicable assets are placed in service. As a result, if, during the term of a lease, market conditions change in a manner that allows Sharyland to realize a greater rate of return than what was originally anticipated, we would not be able to force a renegotiation of our leases to reflect the higher rate of return.. 19. Further, Sharyland's obligation to pay rent in connection with capital expenditures that we fund does not begin until the related assets are placed in service and, in most cases, a TCOS filing with respect to the assets has become effective. Under current PUCT rules, Sharyland is permitted to make only two TCOS filings per year. See the caption Rate Setting under Regulatory Environment included in Item 1., Business. Accordingly, the lag time between the time we fund capital expenditures with respect to a project and when we begin receiving lease revenue on the related assets can be lengthy. Although we will earn AFUDC on the amounts we have expended on capital expenditures that have not yet been placed in service, this accrual does not represent cash earnings, nor does it apply to assets that have been placed in service, but have not yet begun generating revenue.. Although the impact of this regulatory lag is partially mitigated by the percentage rent under our leases, which is based on Sharyland's revenues and therefore enables us to share in some of the benefit of any growth in Sharyland's revenues, our revenue will not increase as quickly as it would if we were operating as an integrated utility.. We may not be able to make cash distributions to holders of our common stock comparable to our current or targeted annualized distribution rate.. We intend to continue to make regular quarterly cash distributions to holders of our common stock. The dividend amount principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things:. •  lease payments actually received;. •  the level and timing of capital expenditures we make;. •  our other expenses and working capital needs;. •  our debt service requirements and restrictions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness;. •  our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; and. •  other business risks affecting our cash levels.. As a result of all these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to pay a specific level of cash distributions to holders of our common stock.. Our structure and the terms of our leases limit our control over SDTS and our regulated assets.. Sharyland is the managing member of SDTS, and we are not able to remove Sharyland as managing member without prior PUCT permission. As the managing member, Sharyland has the exclusive power and authority on behalf of SDTS to manage, control, administer and operate the properties, business and affairs of SDTS in accordance with the limited liability company agreement governing SDTS, subject to a variety of negative control rights in favor of our subsidiary, Transmission and Distribution Company, L.L.C. (TDC), and a delegation agreement with us. TDC currently owns substantially all the economic interests in SDTS. Specifically, although our consent is generally required before SDTS may engage in any material action, Sharyland has the right, subject to certain limitations, to cause SDTS to raise equity capital through the admission of additional members of SDTS without our consent if necessary to fund improvements to our regulated assets that are required by a regulatory authority. As a result of this arrangement, we are limited in our ability to exert control over SDTS and our regulated assets, and Sharyland may exercise its rights in a manner that may dilute our economic interest in our regulated assets.. In addition, under the terms of our leases, Sharyland is responsible for, and fulfills, substantially all of the operational functions that, in an integrated utility, would be controlled and directed by the owner of the regulated assets. These functions include various operational matters such as repairing and maintaining the regulated assets leased from us; planning new projects; forecasting capital expenditures; administering the tariff and interacting with distribution service providers; handling community relations matters; accounting for substantially all of the utility's operations and maintenance costs; cybersecurity; construction management; primary responsibility for regulatory interactions and compliance; managing environmental matters; obtaining and maintaining necessary licenses and permits; and all other matters related to the operation of the utility. While we have influence over the manner in which Sharyland provides these functions pursuant to the terms of our leases and through Hunt Manager's and our working relationship with Sharyland, we do not control Sharyland and, as a result, do not have the same level of control as a similarly situated owner of regulated assets in an integrated utility. As a result, even if we believe that our assets are not being operated efficiently or effectively, we may not be able to require Sharyland to change the way it operates them, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. 20. We rely on third parties to manage aspects of our growth, including the construction of our regulated assets, and our inability to find qualified third-party providers or the failure of third parties to provide timely and quality services would have an adverse impact on our ability to grow.. A substantial portion of the growth that we expect in our asset base is comprised of construction projects. We do not have internal operational or construction expertise and, therefore, we rely on third parties to manage the construction of our regulated assets. To date, Sharyland has managed the planning and construction of our projects, but, in some circumstances, Sharyland also relies on third-party contractors to complete these projects. As a result, we are particularly susceptible to risks generally applicable to construction projects, including:. •  the ability to obtain labor or materials on favorable terms or at all;. •  the ability to obtain rights-of-way on a timely basis;. •  equipment, engineering and design failure;. •  labor strikes;. •  adverse weather conditions;. •  the ability to obtain necessary operating permits in a timely manner;. •  legal challenges;. •  delays due to funding that is not yet secured by third parties;. •  changes in applicable law or regulations;. •  adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions, laws and regulations by courts or the permitting agencies;. •  other governmental actions; and. •  events in the global economy.. Many of these risks, if they materialize, could adversely affect the timing of expected revenues from those projects, since we do not begin to recognize revenues under our leases with respect to Footprint Projects until at or after the time the related assets are placed in service, and also could subject Sharyland or us to fines and penalties for failure to complete projects on the agreed upon schedule.. Cyber breaches could negatively impact our business, assets and Sharyland's operations.. Cyber intrusions targeting our information systems could impair our ability to properly manage our data, networks, systems and programs. While we have implemented measures designed to prevent cyberattacks and mitigate their effects should they occur, the systems may be vulnerable to unauthorized access and cyber intrusions. In addition, we rely on Sharyland for the cybersecurity relating to its operations, breaches of which could lead to a loss of operational control or the release of certain confidential or critical operating information. If any such breach or intrusion were to occur, our business, assets and results of operation may be adversely affected.. We expect to raise funds regularly from the capital markets in order to support our growth.. We expect to raise equity and debt capital from public markets in the future to support our growth. As a result, our financial condition and liquidity will be adversely affected if market conditions prevent us from obtaining financing on favorable terms or at all. Adverse business developments or market disruptions could increase the cost of financing or prevent us from accessing the capital markets on the schedule or timeline we expect or at all. The dilution associated with issuing equity at unfavorable prices could adversely affect the amount and growth of our distributions per share, non-GAAP earnings per share, net income attributable to InfraREIT, Inc. per share and other per share metrics. In some scenarios, if debt or equity capital were unavailable on any terms, we may not be able to pay or grow our cash distributions, fund capital expenditures for Footprint Projects under the leases or refinance our existing debt.. 21. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results timely and accurately or prevent fraud, which would likely have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock.. We are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Exchange Act, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 requires management to annually assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of our financial statements would be prevented or detected, and, if we experience a material weakness or significant deficiency in internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate any such weakness or deficiency in a timely manner or maintain all the controls necessary to remain in compliance. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud.. In addition, we are required to include Sharyland's financial statements in the periodic reports we file under the Exchange Act. However, we do not prepare Sharyland's financial statements, and we do not have any oversight over the preparation of those financial statements or over Sharyland's internal control over financial reporting. If Sharyland is unable to timely provide us with its financial statements, or if Sharyland's internal controls fail to prevent or detect a misstatement in its financial statements, we may be unable to file our periodic reports within the timeframe required by the Exchange Act, and there can be no assurance regarding the accuracy or completeness of Sharyland's financial statements included therein, which could result in certain penalties imposed by the SEC and could negatively impact our ability to access the capital markets or to comply with our obligations under our registration rights agreement.. Changes in technology or increased conservation efforts could adversely affect our business.. Improvements in existing technologies to produce electricity, including advancements related to self-generation and distributed generation, or the creation of new technologies or services could reduce the costs of electricity production from these technologies to a level that will enable these technologies to compete effectively with traditional generation plants. Self-generation itself may exacerbate these trends by reducing the pool of customers, subject to certain regulatory limits, from whom distribution service providers recover fixed costs, while potentially increasing costs of system modifications that may be needed to integrate the systemic effects of self-generation. To the extent self-generation facilities become a more cost effective option for certain end users, regulated asset investment opportunities generally may decrease, adversely affecting our growth prospects, and Sharyland's financial and operating performance may be adversely impacted, which in turn would decrease the amount of percentage rent Sharyland owes us and may lead it to request that we defer or waive its obligations under the leases, including its obligation to make lease payments to us, or to seek to terminate its leases with us. Such trends could also affect the terms to which Sharyland will agree upon any extension or renewal of the lease or that a replacement tenant would be willing to agree to if we chose not to renew the leases. Decreases in the amount of lease revenue received from Sharyland would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Also, electricity demand could be reduced by increased conservation efforts, advances in technology or federal and state government incentives or mandates in support of energy efficiency, which could likewise reduce the relative value of our regulated assets. Effective energy conservation by end users could result in reduced energy demand, or significantly slow the growth in demand.. Utilities are subject to adverse publicity and reputational risks, which could lead to increased regulatory oversight, sanctions or other negative impacts.. Utility companies are important to transmitting and distributing electricity that is critical to end use customers and as a result have been the subject of public criticism focused on the reliability of their transmission and distribution services and speed with which they are able to respond to outages caused by storm damage or other events. Adverse publicity of this nature may render legislatures, public service commissions and other regulatory authorities and government officials less likely to view utilities in a favorable light and may cause them to be susceptible to less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes or increased regulatory oversight. Unfavorable regulatory outcomes can include more stringent laws and regulations governing Sharyland's operations, such as reliability and service quality standards or vegetation management requirements, as well as fines, penalties or other sanctions or requirements. The imposition of any of the foregoing would likely increase the compliance costs borne by Sharyland, and could have a material negative impact on our lease rates as well as Sharyland's business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition, which in turn could negatively impact its ability to make lease payments to us.. 22. We have a significant amount of indebtedness that is subject to covenants with which we must comply, which may limit our operational flexibility. We rely on Sharyland to comply with some of the covenants under our credit arrangements.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which means that a material portion of our lease revenue will be dedicated to the payment of interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for working capital and capital expenditures and impacting our flexibility to react to changing business and economic conditions. Additionally, the agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants applicable to us and Sharyland, including restrictions on distributions or modifications to certain terms of our leases, as well as covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests. In addition, our regulated assets are collateral under our secured financings. Furthermore, our debt arrangements require Sharyland to deliver certain financial statements and reports, maintain its licenses and permits, deliver certain required notices, operate and maintain our regulated assets and maintain proper books of records and account in conformity with U.S. GAAP and include events of default triggered by (1) a bankruptcy by Sharyland, (2) any judgment being entered against Sharyland for payment of money in excess of $2 million, (3) a default by Sharyland with respect to any of its indebtedness in excess of $2 million or any other default by Sharyland with respect to any of its indebtedness that could lead to a material adverse effect (as defined in the applicable debt agreements) and (4) in some cases, a default by Sharyland under our leases that could lead to a material adverse effect with respect to us (as defined in the applicable debt agreements). Our debt agreements also limit Sharyland's ability to incur indebtedness, subject to some exceptions. Sharyland has agreed to comply with these covenants. Our ability to continue to borrow is subject to continued compliance with these and other covenants by Sharyland and us, and failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default under our credit facilities, which could require us to repay the related debt with capital from other sources, all of which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our regulated assets and Sharyland's operations may be affected by hazards associated with electricity transmission and distribution and other events for which Sharyland's and/or our property insurance may not provide adequate coverage.. Our regulated assets and Sharyland's operations are subject to hazards associated with electricity transmission and distribution, including explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, equipment interruptions, remediation, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances and other environmental risks. These hazards can cause severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and may result in suspension of operations or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We and Sharyland are self-insured for a substantial portion of our regulated assets, and, as a result, there may not be adequate insurance to cover the associated costs of repair or reconstruction. Although it is possible that our capital expenditures to fund these remediation costs could be recoverable in rates, recovery of the related expenditures could be delayed or denied, in which case our rent revenues or Sharyland's financial condition, cash flows and revenues would be adversely affected.. We may incur unexpected liabilities with respect to regulated assets that we acquire and may not be able to achieve the benefits of any such acquisition that we expect.. We expect to conduct customary due diligence with respect to any regulated assets that we may acquire, but our assessment may not identify all existing or potential problems, nor enable us to become familiar enough with the acquired assets to fully assess any deficiencies. If we incur costs to remediate any deficiencies in the acquired assets that existed at closing or arise in the future, we may not have adequate recourse against the seller for such deficiencies, and there is no assurance that the PUCT will determine that all of such capital expenditures can be recovered through rates. Further, our ability to make specified claims against the seller of any regulated assets that we acquire will generally expire over time, and we may be left with no recourse for liabilities and other problems associated with the acquired assets that we do not discover prior to the expiration date related to such matters under the agreements governing the asset acquisition.. If we are unable to protect our rights to the land under our towers, lines and substations, it could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our real property interests include fee interests, easements, licenses and rights-of-way. A loss of any or all these interests at a particular site may interfere with Sharyland's operations and ability to generate lease revenues from our regulated assets. In addition, any such loss could result in a default under our credit facilities, which could distract our management team, damage our relationship with our lenders and result in the acceleration of our indebtedness. We generally rely on Sharyland for title work related to our real property acquisitions. If we and Sharyland are unable to protect our real property rights related to our regulated assets, our results of operation and financial condition may be adversely affected.. 23. The preparation of our financial statements involves the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions, and our financial statements may be materially affected if our estimates prove to be inaccurate.. Financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP require the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts. Different estimates, judgments and assumptions reasonably could be used, which could materially affect our financial statements. Further, changes in these estimates, judgments and assumptions are likely to occur from period to period in the future. Significant areas of accounting requiring the application of management's judgment include determining the fair value of our assets. These estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently uncertain and, if they prove to be wrong, we face the risk that charges to income will be required. Any such charges could significantly harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and the price of our securities. See Summary of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates under Item 7., Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of the accounting estimates, judgments and assumptions that we believe are the most critical to an understanding of our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have a significant goodwill balance related to the acquisition of Cap Rock Holding Corporation (Cap Rock) and our formation transactions, both of which occurred in 2010. A determination that goodwill is impaired could result in a significant non-cash charge to earnings.. Our goodwill balance at December 31, 2017 is $138.4 million, of which $83.4 million is attributable to our acquisition of Cap Rock and $55.0 million is attributable to InfraREIT, L.L.C.'s formation transactions in 2010. An impairment charge must be recorded under U.S. GAAP to the extent that the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of goodwill, as shown on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We are required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may result in an interim impairment test include a decline in our stock price causing market capitalization to fall below book value, an adverse change in business conditions or an adverse regulatory action. If we were to determine that our goodwill is impaired, we would be required to reduce our goodwill balance by the amount of the impairment and record a corresponding non-cash charge to earnings. Depending on the amount of the impairment, an impairment determination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, but would not have an impact on our cash flow.. As a holding company with no operations of our own, we depend on distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our payment obligations and make distributions to our stockholders.. We derive all our operating income from, and hold all our assets through, our subsidiaries. As a result, we depend on distributions from our subsidiaries in order to meet our payment obligations and make distributions to our stockholders. However, our subsidiaries generally have no obligation to distribute cash to us. Provisions of applicable law, contractual restrictions, covenants or claims of a subsidiary's creditors may limit our subsidiaries' ability to make payments or other distributions to us.. Risks Related to Related Party Transactions and Conflicts of Interest. Hunt's ownership and control of Hunt Manager and its current and prior relationships with our Chief Executive Officer and other officers and with three members of our board of directors give rise to conflicts of interest.. Our business originated in the Hunt organization, and Hunt Manager, our external manager, is a subsidiary of Hunt. All our officers, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, David A. Campbell, are employees of Hunt Manager. Mr. Campbell also serves as President and Chief Executive Officer of Sharyland, our sole tenant. Hunt controls the compensation of all our officers, including Mr. Campbell, and Hunt Manager's employees enjoy various employee perquisites and other benefits associated with being a Hunt employee. Hunt Manager has granted or in the future may grant compensation or awards to our officers, including Mr. Campbell, that are based upon the performance of Hunt Manager, Hunt Developer, Sharyland and Hunt generally. As a result, Mr. Campbell and our other officers and other employees of Hunt Manager may benefit from the financial performance of these entities, including the consideration paid by us under the management agreement and from any economic benefit that Hunt or Sharyland receives from the performance of Sharyland or from the sale of ROFO Projects to us pursuant to the development agreement; however, our executive officers have waived any benefit they may receive under certain Hunt incentive plans from any sale of the Golden Spread Project and Cross Valley Project to InfraREIT, to the extent that they participate in such plans, other than benefits under plans where the effect of those transactions will be immaterial to such individuals. Consequently, Mr. Campbell, our other officers and other employees of Hunt Manager, each of whom reports, either directly or indirectly, to Mr. Campbell, may consider the interests of these Hunt affiliates in any negotiations, including in any negotiations with Sharyland regarding our leases or in other transactions that we undertake with Sharyland, and may be incentivized to focus on ROFO Projects and divert attention from Footprint Projects. Additionally, the duties owed to us by our officers, including Mr. Campbell, and Mr. Campbell's duties to us as a director, may conflict with duties to, and pecuniary interests in, Hunt Manager, Hunt Developer, Sharyland and Hunt generally.. 24. W. Kirk Baker, who is a member of our board of directors and served as Chairman until February 2018, was the President and Chief Executive Officer of Hunt Manager until August 2014, was a senior officer in the HCI organization until July 2012, and received compensation and other benefits from Hunt and its affiliates during these time periods. Additionally, Mr. Baker currently is the Managing Partner of Captra Capital, an investment and strategic advisory firm in which Hunt previously was an investor and client. Hunt and Mr. Baker have informed us that Mr. Baker and Captra Capital have received fees, various perquisites and incentive compensation from Hunt and may benefit from any payments that we make to Hunt Manager under the management agreement or from any other economic benefit that Hunt receives pursuant to our arrangements with them. As a result, Mr. Baker may consider the interests of Hunt Manager, Hunt Developer, Sharyland and Hunt generally in any negotiation between us and one of those entities.. Hunter L. Hunt, who is a member of our board of directors, is the Co-Chief Executive Officer of HCI, Chairman of Sharyland, President of Hunt Developer and directly or indirectly has a significant economic interest in, and controls, Hunt Manager, Hunt Developer and Sharyland. Accordingly, Mr. Hunt will benefit from the consideration paid to Hunt Manager under the management agreement, from any economic benefit that Hunt or Sharyland receives from the sale of ROFO Projects to us pursuant to the development agreement and from the performance of Sharyland under the leases. Mr. Hunt's duties to us as a director may conflict with his duties to, and pecuniary interest in, Hunt Manager, Hunt Developer, Sharyland and Hunt. As a result, Mr. Hunt may consider the interests of Hunt Manager, Hunt Developer, Sharyland and Hunt generally in any negotiation between us and one of those entities and may benefit from the consideration we pay Hunt Manager under the management agreement, from any economic benefit that Hunt or Sharyland receives from the sale of ROFO Projects to us pursuant to the development agreement and from the performance of Sharyland.. Although we intend to operate and manage our business for the benefit of our stockholders, there is a risk that actual or perceived conflicts of interest could affect the manner in which we treat Hunt as a limited partner in the Operating Partnership or how we manage our relationships with Hunt Manager, Hunt Developer and Sharyland under the management agreement, the development agreement and our leases and that the negotiations and agreements between us, our subsidiaries or our Operating Partnership, on the one hand, and these entities and their affiliates, on the other hand, may not solely reflect the interests of our stockholders. If we were to terminate any of our leases with Sharyland, we would lose the benefit of the relationship that we have cultivated with Sharyland and could damage our relationship with Hunt. Further, if we were to terminate the management agreement with Hunt Manager, the development agreement also would automatically expire. These complications and costs could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and relationship with regulators and ratepayers.. There are limited contractual or legal restrictions on Hunt's ability to compete with us, and we are prohibited from competing with Hunt in certain circumstances.. Our leases prohibit Sharyland from funding Footprint Projects unless we fail to do so, and our development agreement with Hunt Developer prohibits Hunt and its affiliates from owning or funding Footprint Projects. The development agreement also provides us with a right of first offer to acquire ROFO Projects. However, Hunt Developer has the exclusive right to fund the development and construction of ROFO Projects, and Hunt also is free to pursue the development and construction of other regulated asset projects. As a result, we are prohibited from funding projects that qualify as ROFO Projects, including in some circumstances projects that connect to our transmission assets, and Hunt may compete directly with us for the acquisition of other regulated assets and businesses, including within Texas. Additionally, as permitted by the Maryland General Corporation Law (MGCL), our charter contains provisions that permit our directors and officers, and their affiliates (including individuals serving in such capacities who are also directors, officers and/or employees of Hunt and its affiliates), to compete with us, own any investments or engage in any business activities, including investments and business activities that are similar to our current or proposed investments or business activities, without any obligation to present any such business opportunity to us unless the opportunity is expressly offered to such person in his or her capacity as our director or officer.. 25. We are dependent on Hunt Manager and its executive officers and key personnel, who provide services to us through the management agreement. We may not find a suitable replacement for Hunt Manager if the management agreement is terminated or for these executive officers and key personnel if any of them leave Hunt Manager or otherwise become unavailable to us, and there is no contractual requirement that our executive officers and key personnel allocate a specific amount of time and attention to our business.. We are externally advised and managed by Hunt Manager, and all members of our senior management are employees of Hunt Manager. Pursuant to our management agreement, Hunt Manager is obligated to supply us with all our senior management team. Subject to the direction of our board of directors, Hunt Manager has significant discretion regarding the implementation of our investment and operating policies and strategies. Accordingly, our success depends significantly upon the experience, skill, resources, relationships and contacts of the executive officers and key personnel of Hunt Manager. The executive officers and key personnel of Hunt Manager have extensive knowledge of our business and industry. If any executive officer or key person leaves Hunt Manager or otherwise becomes unavailable to manage our business, our performance could be adversely impacted. If our management agreement with Hunt Manager were to terminate, we would have to replace our entire management team. It could be very difficult and time and resource intensive to identify and retain a new management team that has all the characteristics that we depend upon with our current management team. Accordingly, a termination of our management agreement with Hunt Manager could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, our management agreement with Hunt Manager does not specify a fixed amount of time that our officers and other employees of Hunt Manager who work on our behalf are to spend managing our business. Accordingly, the InfraREIT officers and directors and personnel of Hunt Manager may dedicate a large share of their time and efforts to the pursuit of and management of other businesses, which may adversely affect their ability to devote their time to our business.. The initial term of our management agreement with Hunt Manager expires on December 31, 2019, and termination of the management agreement would eliminate our rights to Hunt Developer's development projects and could harm our relationship with Sharyland. Additionally, Hunt Manager's interests and incentives relating to our business may differ from our long-term best interest.. The initial term of the management agreement will expire on December 31, 2019. The management agreement will automatically extend for additional five year terms, unless we decide to terminate it pursuant to its terms. We will also have the right to terminate the management agreement at any time for cause, and Hunt Manager may terminate the agreement at any time upon 365 days' prior notice to us, provided that Hunt Manager may not exercise this right in a manner that results in the management agreement terminating before December 31, 2019. Any termination of the management agreement would end Hunt Manager's obligation to provide us with the executive officers and key personnel upon whom we rely for the operation of our business and, unless we terminate for cause, would also terminate our rights to ROFO Projects under the development agreement. In addition, we are required to pay Hunt a termination fee equal to three times the most recent annualized base management and incentive payment if we terminate the agreement for any reason other than cause. Further, any termination of our relationships with Hunt Manager and Hunt Developer may negatively impact our relationship with Sharyland, including Sharyland's willingness to renew our leases or to negotiate lease supplements on terms that are favorable to us. Termination of or failure to renew our leases could result in a default under the agreements governing our indebtedness. Additionally, because the base fee payable to Hunt Manager under the management agreement is calculated by reference to our total equity and the incentive payment payable to Hunt Manager is calculated as a percentage of the per OP Unit distributions to the Operating Partnership's unitholders in excess of a threshold amount ($0.27 per quarter), Hunt Manager may be motivated to grow total equity or make Operating Partnership distributions in a manner that is not in our long-term best interest or in the best interests of our other stockholders.. Hunt Manager's liability is limited under the management agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify Hunt Manager against certain liabilities. As a result, we could experience poor performance or losses for which Hunt Manager would not be liable.. Pursuant to the management agreement, Hunt Manager will not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for thereunder and will not be responsible for any action of our board of directors in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. Although our directors and officers, in their capacity as such, have duties to us, Hunt Manager maintains a contractual as opposed to a fiduciary relationship with us. Under the terms of the management agreement, Hunt Manager, its officers, members and personnel, any person controlling or controlled by Hunt Manager and any person providing sub-advisory services to Hunt Manager will not be liable to us, any subsidiary of ours, our directors, our stockholders or any subsidiary's stockholders or partners for acts or omissions performed in accordance with and pursuant to the management agreement, except those resulting from acts constituting gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of Hunt Manager's duties under the management agreement. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify Hunt Manager and each of its officers, directors, members, managers and employees from and against any claims or liabilities, including reasonable legal fees and other expenses reasonably incurred, arising out of or in connection with our business and operations or any action taken or omitted on our behalf pursuant to authority granted by the management agreement, except where attributable to gross negligence, willful misconduct, bad faith or reckless disregard of such person's duties under the management agreement. As a result, we could experience poor performance or losses for which Hunt Manager would not be liable.. 26. The management agreement, the development agreement and our leases were not negotiated on an arm's-length basis and may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties.. Our management agreement with Hunt Manager, the development agreement with Hunt Developer and the initial terms of our existing leases with Sharyland were negotiated between related parties and before our independent directors were elected, and their terms, including the consideration payable to Hunt Manager and lease payments to us, may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties.. The terms of these agreements and leases may not solely reflect our best interest and may be overly favorable to the other party to such agreements and leases, including in terms of the substantial compensation to be paid to these parties under these agreements. Further, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under the management agreement, the development agreement or our leases, as applicable, because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationships with Hunt and Sharyland.. Risks Related to REIT Qualification and Federal Income Tax Laws. Qualifying as a REIT involves technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), and our failure to remain qualified as a REIT would cause us to owe U.S. federal income tax, which would negatively impact our results of operations and reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders.. We have elected to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The U.S. federal income tax laws governing REITs are complex and require us to meet, on an ongoing basis, various tests regarding the nature and diversification of our assets and income, the ownership of our outstanding shares and the amount of our distributions. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification.. We are one of only a few REITs engaged in owning and leasing regulated assets or similar assets. There is little or no guidance in the tax law regarding the qualification of regulated assets as real estate assets and the rent therefrom as qualifying rental income under the REIT asset and income tests. We hold a private letter ruling from the IRS that provides that regulated asset systems qualify as real estate assets and the rent therefrom generally constitutes qualifying rental income. We can rely upon that ruling for those assets that fit within the scope of the ruling only to the extent that (1) we have the legal and contractual rights described therein and are considered to be the same taxpayer as, or are treated for tax purposes as the successor to, the taxpayer that obtained the ruling, (2) we did not misstate or omit in the ruling request a relevant fact and (3) we continue to operate in the future in accordance with the relevant facts described in such request. No assurance can be given that we will always be able to operate in the future in accordance with the relevant facts described in such request. Further, to the extent our private letter ruling was determined to be inconsistent with subsequently adopted rules and regulations regarding the qualification of certain of our regulated assets as real estate assets, we would no longer be able to treat such regulated assets as real estate assets and/or rent therefrom as qualifying income for purposes of applying the REIT asset or income tests. In this regard, in August 2016, the U.S. Department of Treasury issued final regulations that clarify the definition of \"real property\" for purposes of the REIT asset and income tests. Although we do not believe that the new regulations are inconsistent with our private letter ruling, there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with this position. If we were not able to treat our regulated assets as real estate assets and/or the rent therefrom as qualifying rental income for purposes of applying the REIT asset or income tests, we might fail to qualify as a REIT.. In addition, our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis in accordance with existing REIT regulations and rules and interpretations thereof. Furthermore, judicial and administrative interpretations of the U.S. federal income tax laws governing REIT qualification are limited, and new IRS guidance, legislation, court decisions or other administrative guidance, in each case possibly with retroactive effect, may make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT or adversely change the tax treatment of a REIT. Thus, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances or the rules applicable to REITs, no assurance can be given that we will qualify as a REIT for any particular year, and we could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, U.S. federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation.. 27. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, unless we were eligible for certain statutory relief provisions:. •  we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate income tax rates;. •  we also could be liable for increased state and local taxes;. •  we would be liable for interest and possible penalties for failure to make any required estimated tax payments in a year in which the failure occurred;. •  we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all our taxable income to our stockholders; and. •  we could not re-elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT.. In such a case, any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce our net income and cash available for distributions to stockholders, among other things. In addition, we might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay any corporate tax liability. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and the trading price of our common stock.. If our Operating Partnership fails to qualify as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would cease to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences.. We believe that our Operating Partnership is and will continue to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, our Operating Partnership is not subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, each of its partners, including us, are allocated, and may be required to pay tax with respect to, such partner's share of the Operating Partnership's income. We cannot guarantee that the IRS will not challenge the status of our Operating Partnership or any other subsidiary partnership in which we own an interest as a partnership or disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating our Operating Partnership or certain subsidiary partnerships as an entity taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would fail to meet the applicable REIT gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, we would likely cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of our Operating Partnership or certain subsidiary partnerships to qualify as a partnership or disregarded entity could cause the applicable entity to become subject to federal corporate income tax, which would adversely affect our results of operations and significantly reduce the amount of cash the Operating Partnership has available for distribution to its partners, including us.. If InfraREIT, L.L.C. is determined to have failed to qualify as a REIT for any reason or if we acquire C corporations in the future, we may inherit material tax liabilities and other tax attributes from InfraREIT, L.L.C. or such acquired corporations, and we may be required to distribute earnings and profits.. InfraREIT, L.L.C. elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code commencing with the taxable year ended December 31, 2010. The formation of a partnership unrelated to InfraREIT in 2011 between a Hunt affiliate and an affiliate of a former shareholder of InfraREIT, L.L.C. (Shareholder) triggered certain provisions in InfraREIT, L.L.C.'s limited liability company agreement designed to protect against rent received from Sharyland being deemed to be rent from a related party which could have caused InfraREIT, L.L.C. to fail to qualify as a REIT. As a result of the application of these provisions, shares held by the Shareholder that would have resulted in the Shareholder holding in excess of 9.8% of the total number of outstanding shares of InfraREIT, L.L.C. were automatically transferred to Westwood Trust, as trustee of a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary. If these provisions were deemed to be ineffective, InfraREIT, L.L.C. would not have met the REIT requirements and, as a result, would have been taxed as a C corporation. If InfraREIT, L.L.C. is deemed to have failed to meet the REIT requirements as a result of the 2011 transaction or otherwise, we would be liable for the taxes InfraREIT, L.L.C. would have been required to pay, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we have previously acquired, and from time to time we may acquire, C corporations or assets of C corporations in transactions in which the basis of the corporations' assets in our hands is determined by reference to the basis of the assets in the hands of the acquired corporations, or carry-over basis transactions. In this regard, in 2010, we acquired Cap Rock in a transaction that was treated as a carry-over basis transaction.. 28. In the case of assets we acquire from a C corporation in a carry-over basis transaction, including the assets of InfraREIT, L.L.C. if it failed to meet the REIT requirements prior to its merger with InfraREIT, Inc., if we dispose of any such asset in a taxable transaction (including by deed in lieu of foreclosure) during the five year period beginning on the date of the carry-over basis transaction, then we may be required to pay tax at the highest regular corporate tax rate on the gain recognized to the extent of the excess of (1) the fair market value of the asset over (2) our adjusted tax basis in the asset, in each case determined as of the date of the carry-over basis transaction. Any taxes we pay as a result of such gain would reduce the amount available for distribution to our stockholders. The imposition of such tax may require us to forgo an otherwise attractive disposition of any assets we acquire from a C corporation in a carry-over basis transaction, and as a result may reduce the liquidity of our portfolio of investments. In addition, in such a carry-over basis transaction, we will succeed to any tax liabilities and earnings and profits of the acquired C corporation. To qualify as a REIT, we must distribute any non-REIT earnings and profits by the close of the taxable year in which such transaction occurs. If the IRS were to determine that we acquired non-REIT earnings and profits from a corporation that we failed to distribute prior to the end of the taxable year in which the carry-over basis transaction occurred, we could avoid disqualification as a REIT by paying a \"deficiency dividend.\" Under these procedures, we generally would be required to distribute any such non-REIT earnings and profits to our stockholders within 90 days of the determination and pay a statutory interest charge at a specified rate to the IRS. Such a distribution would be in addition to the distribution of REIT taxable income necessary to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and may require that we borrow funds to make the distribution even if the prevailing market conditions are not favorable for borrowings. In addition, payment of the statutory interest charge could materially and adversely affect us.. If InfraREIT, L.L.C. failed to qualify as a REIT and we are considered a \"successor\" to InfraREIT, L.L.C. under applicable income tax regulations, our election to be taxed as a REIT could be challenged with respect to the four taxable years following the year in which InfraREIT, L.L.C. ceased to qualify as a REIT. However, we would be considered a \"successor\" for these purposes only if, among other requirements, persons who own, directly or indirectly, 50% or more in value of our shares at any time during the taxable year owned, directly or indirectly, 50% or more in value of the shares of InfraREIT, L.L.C. during the first year in which it ceased to qualify as a REIT. We believe that we would not be a considered a \"successor\" to InfraREIT, L.L.C. for purposes of such provisions.. The IRS may treat sale-leaseback transactions as loans, which could jeopardize our REIT status or require us to make an unexpected distribution.. The IRS may take the position that specific sale-leaseback transactions that we treat as leases are not true leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes but are, instead, financing arrangements or loans. If a sale-leaseback transaction were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT asset tests, the income tests or distribution requirements and consequently lose our REIT status effective with the year of re-characterization. The primary risk relates to our loss of previously incurred depreciation expenses, which could affect the calculation of our REIT taxable income and could (unless we were able to take other mitigating steps or were eligible for certain statutory relief provisions) cause us to fail the REIT distribution test that requires a REIT to distribute at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain. In this circumstance, we may elect to distribute an additional dividend of the increased taxable income so we do not fail the REIT distribution test. This distribution would be paid to all stockholders at the time of declaration rather than the stockholders existing in the taxable year affected by the re-characterization.. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends.. The current maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for certain qualified dividends paid by corporations to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 20%, or 23.8% including investment taxes on investment income applicable to certain stockholders under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA). Dividends payable by REITs are generally not qualified dividends eligible for these reduced rates. The TCJA includes other provisions that generally have the effect of reducing the maximum income tax rate applicable to REIT dividends (other than capital gain dividends) paid to individual REIT shareholders from 39.6% to 29.6%, or 33.4% including PPACA investment taxes. However, these provisions are set to expire after 2025 and, thus, if these provisions are not extended by subsequent legislation, dividends payable by REITs after 2025 would be subject to a 39.6%, or 43.4% including PPACA investment taxes, maximum U.S. federal income tax rate. Although the reduced U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to dividend income from regular corporate dividends does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including the per share trading price of our common stock. States may also choose to tax investment and dividend income at higher rates than ordinary income, and to the extent more states do so, then such taxes may further reduce the attractiveness of REITs from an investment standpoint. Any future changes in the federal, state or local income tax laws regarding the taxation of dividends payable to stockholders could also impact the attractiveness of REITs from an investment standpoint.. 29. Complying with REIT requirements may affect our profitability and may force us to liquidate or forgo otherwise attractive investments.. To qualify as a REIT, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the nature and diversification of our assets, sources of our income and amounts we distribute to our stockholders. We may be required to liquidate or forgo otherwise attractive investments in order to satisfy the asset and income tests or to qualify under certain statutory relief provisions. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our cash flow as a result of differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt amortization payments. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. As a result, having to comply with the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in any particular year could cause us to sell assets in adverse market conditions, issue equity or incur debt on unfavorable terms or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce the value of our equity. Accordingly, satisfying the REIT requirements could hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our stock, or could cause holders of our stock to incur tax liabilities in excess of cash distributions.. Recent changes to the U.S. tax laws or future changes affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us.. The TCJA is a complex revision to the U.S. federal income tax laws and will require subsequent rulemaking and interpretation in a number of areas. As a result, the effect of the changes made in the TCJA is highly uncertain, both in terms of their direct effect on the taxation of an investment in our common stock and their indirect effect on the value of our assets or market conditions generally. There may be substantial delay before administrative guidance is issued or other drafting errors or other unintended consequences of the TCJA are addressed in subsequent legislation, the effect of which cannot be predicted and may have unanticipated or unfavorable effects on us or our stockholders.. Further, the rules dealing with federal, state and local income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Future changes to the tax laws, with or without retroactive application, could materially and adversely affect our investors or us. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us. New legislation, new income tax regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT or the income tax consequences of such qualification.. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively.. The REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to hedge our assets and operations. Under these provisions, any income that we generate from transactions intended to hedge our interest rate exposure will be excluded from gross income for purposes of the gross income tests if the instrument hedges interest rate risk on liabilities used to carry or acquire real estate assets, or certain other specified types of risk, and such instrument is properly identified under applicable income tax regulations. Income from hedging transactions that do not meet these requirements will generally constitute nonqualifying income. As a result of these rules, we may have to limit our use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous or implement those hedges through a taxable REIT subsidiary, which would be liable for tax on gains and for which we would not receive any tax benefit for losses, except to the extent they were carried forward to offset future taxable income of the taxable REIT subsidiary.. Liquidation of our assets may jeopardize our REIT qualification.. If we are compelled to liquidate our assets to repay obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with the requirements relating to our assets and our sources of income, thereby jeopardizing our qualification as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if we sell assets that are treated as inventory or property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business.. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may face tax liabilities that reduce our cash flows.. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be liable for certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, a 100% penalty tax on any gain if we sell property as a dealer, alternative minimum tax, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure and state or local income, franchise, property and transfer taxes, including mortgage recording taxes.. 30. In addition, although we do not currently own any taxable REIT subsidiaries, we may form or hold an interest in taxable REIT subsidiaries in the future. Any such taxable REIT subsidiary would be subject to U.S. federal, state and local corporate income or franchise taxes, and our ownership of any taxable REIT subsidiary would be subject to certain restrictions, including that we structure transactions with our taxable REIT subsidiary on an arm's length basis. Any taxes paid by such taxable REIT subsidiary would decrease the cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, we would be subject to a 100% excise tax on transactions between us and our taxable REIT subsidiary that are not conducted on an arm's length basis.. The TCJA may impact our ability to utilize our interest expense deductions to fully offset our taxable income in future periods.. The recently enacted TCJA includes provisions which, beginning in 2018, generally will limit our annual deductions for interest expense to no more than 30% of our \"adjusted taxable income\" (plus 100% of our business interest income) for the year. Interest expense subject to this limitation may be carried forward by us for use in later years, subject to these limitations. This interest deductibility limitation is not applicable, however, to interest paid or accrued on indebtedness properly allocable to a rate-regulated electricity transmission or distribution business (the public utility exception).. It is unclear whether the public utility exception applies to interest on indebtedness of SDTS's direct parent, TDC, because TDC is a holding company. If the interest deductibility limitation does apply to us and our unregulated subsidiaries, it would have the effect of increasing our taxable income without a corresponding increase in our cash flow. Based on current projections, we do not anticipate that the application of the interest deductibility limitation would have a material adverse impact on us. There can be no assurance, however, that our actual results will match projections and, thus, it is possible that the interest deductibility limitation, if applicable, could result in our (1) inability to distribute all of our taxable income and, thus, avoid corporate level taxation or (2) having to borrow funds or sell assets in order satisfy REIT distribution requirements and/or pay corporate level taxes.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The market price and trading volume of shares of our common stock may fluctuate significantly.. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Our financial performance, governmental action, tax laws, interest rates and market conditions in general could have a significant impact on the future market price of our common stock. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, and you choose to sell your shares, you may receive a lower price than the amount you paid or you may not be able to sell your shares at all.. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price of our stock include:. •  market expectations regarding our evaluation of our REIT status or Hunt's consideration of various alternative arrangements, including its focus on evaluating a potential going private transaction, as discussed under the caption Hunt's Schedule 13D under Our Relationship with Hunt included in Item 1., Business;. •  the value and timing of our quarterly distributions;. •  changes in our lease payments or the rates Sharyland can charge its customers;. •  our operating performance and deviations from estimates of funds from operations, adjusted funds from operations, capital needs or earnings;. •  the termination of or failure to renew a lease with Sharyland;. •  changes in the laws applicable to REITs and legislative or regulatory developments that affect us or our industry;. •  future offerings of debt or equity, including preferred equity securities that are senior to our common stock; and. •  other factors described in these Risk Factors or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Future sales of shares of our common stock (or securities redeemable for shares of our common stock), or the perception that such sales might occur, may cause you to incur significant dilution and may depress the price of our shares.. We expect to raise equity and debt capital from public markets in the future to support our growth and the distributions we are required to make to our stockholders. Future issuances of shares of our common stock and the perception that these issuances may occur may cause you to suffer significant dilution in your ownership of our common stock and could decrease the market price per share of our common stock. Further, any sales by us or our stockholders of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, may cause the market price of our shares to decline.. 31. Subject to the terms of our Operating Partnership's partnership agreement, OP Units in our Operating Partnership held by limited partners may be redeemed for cash or, at our election, shares of our common stock. If we choose to satisfy this redemption right through issuance of shares of our common stock, it could result in the issuance of a large number of new shares of our common stock. In addition, pursuant to a registration rights agreement among certain of our pre-IPO investors, including Hunt, we have filed a shelf registration statement that registers for resale under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (Securities Act), the shares of our common stock that constitute \"registrable securities\" under the registration rights agreement, including certain shares that may be issued upon the redemption of outstanding OP Units. We also have the obligation to register additional shares of common stock beneficially owned by Hunt in the future. Registration of the resale of these shares of our common stock facilitates their sale into the public market. If any or all of these holders cause a large number of their shares to be sold in the public market, or if investors believe that these sales could occur, such sales and beliefs could reduce the trading price of our common stock and could impede our ability to raise future capital.. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. Certain provisions of Maryland law and our charter and bylaws could inhibit changes in control, preventing our stockholders from realizing a potential premium over the market price of our stock in a proposed acquisition.. Certain provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of inhibiting or deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price of such shares, including:. •  \"Business Combination\" provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an \"interested stockholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two year period immediately prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting stock) or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter impose special stockholder voting requirements and special appraisal rights on these combinations; and. •  \"Control Share\" provisions that provide that holders of \"control shares\" of InfraREIT (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other voting shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding \"control shares\") have no voting rights with respect to such shares except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares.. As permitted by the MGCL, we have elected, by resolution of our board of directors, to exempt from the business combination provisions of the MGCL any business combination between us and any other person that is first approved by our board of directors (including a majority of our directors who are not affiliates or associates of such person), and our bylaws contain a provision exempting any and all acquisitions of our stock from the control share provisions of the MGCL. However, our board of directors may by resolution elect to repeal the exemption from the business combination provisions of the MGCL and may by amendment to our bylaws opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL at any time in the future.. Certain provisions of the MGCL permit our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain corporate governance provisions. Our charter contains a provision whereby we elect to be subject to the provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL relating to the filling of vacancies on our board of directors. In addition, through provisions in our charter and bylaws unrelated to Subtitle 8, we already (1) have a board of directors that is classified in three classes serving staggered three year terms, (2) require a two-thirds vote for the removal of any director from the board of directors, which removal must be for cause, (3) vest in the board of directors the exclusive power to fix the number of directorships, subject to limitations set forth in our charter and bylaws and (4) require that, for stockholders to call a special meeting, the request must be made by stockholders entitled to cast not less than a majority of all votes entitled to be cast on a matter at such meeting, unless the meeting is called by the chairman of our board of directors, our lead director, if any, our chief executive officer, our president or our board of directors. These provisions may have the effect of limiting or precluding a third party from making an unsolicited acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price.. In addition, the advance notice provisions of our bylaws could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control of our company that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in their best interests.. 32. Our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our stock that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction.. Our charter, subject to certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take such actions as it determines are necessary or advisable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Our charter also prohibits, among other things, the beneficial or constructive ownership by any person (which includes any \"group\" as defined by Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) of more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of our common stock or more than 9.8% in value of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of all classes or series of our capital stock, in each case excluding any shares that are not treated as outstanding for federal income tax purposes. Our board of directors may exempt a person, prospectively or retroactively, from these ownership limits if certain conditions are satisfied. The restrictions on ownership and transfer of our stock may:. •  discourage a tender offer or other transactions or a change in management or control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or that our stockholders otherwise believe to be in their best interests; or. •  result in the transfer of shares acquired in excess of the restrictions to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and, as a result, the forfeiture by the acquirer of the benefits of owning the additional shares.. Our structure as an UPREIT may give rise to conflicts of interest.. Our directors and officers have duties to us under Maryland law. At the same time, we have fiduciary duties, as general partner, to our Operating Partnership and to its limited partners under Delaware law. Our duties as the general partner of the Operating Partnership may come into conflict with the duties of our directors and officers to us. Although our Operating Partnership's partnership agreement generally limits our liability for our acts or omissions in our capacity as the general partner of the Operating Partnership, provided we acted in good faith, Delaware law is not settled on these types of modifications to fiduciary duties, and we have not obtained an opinion of counsel as to the validity or enforceability of such provisions.. We may structure acquisitions of assets in exchange for OP Units on terms that could limit our liquidity or our flexibility.. We may acquire assets by issuing OP Units in exchange for an asset owner contributing assets to our Operating Partnership. If we enter into such transactions, in order to induce the contributors of such assets to accept OP Units, rather than cash, in exchange for their assets, it may be necessary for us to provide them additional incentives. For instance, our Operating Partnership's partnership agreement provides that any holder of OP Units may exchange such units for cash equal to the value of an equivalent number of shares of our common stock or, at our option, for shares of our common stock on a one-for-one basis. Finally, in order to allow a contributor of assets to defer taxable gain on the contribution of assets to our Operating Partnership, we might agree not to sell a contributed asset for a defined period of time or until the contributor exchanged the contributor's units for cash or shares. Such an agreement would prevent us from selling those assets, even if market conditions made such a sale favorable to us.. Our authorized but unissued shares of common and preferred stock may prevent a change in our control.. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred stock. In addition, our board of directors may, without stockholder approval, amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of our authorized shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue and classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board of directors may establish a class or series of shares of common or preferred stock that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our shares of common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.. Our charter contains provisions that make removal of our directors difficult, which could make it difficult for our stockholders to effect changes to our board of directors.. Our board of directors is classified into three classes, and our charter provides that, subject to the rights of holders of any class or series of preferred stock, a director may be removed only for cause (as defined in our charter) and then only by the affirmative vote of holders of shares entitled to cast at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of directors. Further, our charter and bylaws provide that, except as may be provided by our board of directors in setting the terms of any class or series of stock under the provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL, any and all vacancies on our board of directors shall be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors in office, even if less than a quorum, for the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred and until a successor is elected and qualifies. These requirements prevent stockholders from removing directors except for cause and with a substantial affirmative vote and from replacing directors with their own nominees and may prevent a change in control of our company that is in the best interests of our stockholders.. 33"
