[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following discussion of risk factors contains \"forward-looking statements,\" as discussed in the Forward-Looking Statements section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Investing in Innophos involves a significant degree of risk. We are providing the following cautionary discussion of risk factors, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are relevant to our business. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and our forward-looking statements. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider this section to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties that may substantially impact our business. Moreover, we operate in a competitive and rapidly changing environment. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all of these factors on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Business Operations. External Factors Impacting Profitability - Our profitability may be affected by factors beyond our control.. Our ability to maintain and increase profitability depend to a large extent upon our ability to price finished products at a level that will cover manufacturing and raw material costs and provide an acceptable profit margin. Our ability to maintain appropriate price levels is determined by a number of factors largely beyond our control, such as the economic conditions of the geographic regions in which we conduct business, raw materials availability and pricing, competitive factors, adoption of new regulations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which we do business and customer preferences impacting use of our ingredients, each of which is discussed further below. Any of the foregoing factors may materially and negatively impact our ability to increase profitability as part of our Vision 2022 growth plan.. Raw Materials Availability and Pricing - The success of our business depends on our ability to successfully source sufficient amounts of the raw materials used in our products at competitive prices, often from a limited number of suppliers, some of whom with we do not have a long-term contract in place.. We may not be able to source sufficient amounts of the raw materials used in our products at competitive prices, or at all, which may materially and negatively impact our business.. We rely on unaffiliated third parties to provide our raw materials, and we do not engage in any significant futures or other derivative contracts to hedge against fluctuations in the price of raw materials. Most of our raw materials are supplied to us by either one or a small number of suppliers. Some of those suppliers rely, in turn, on sole or limited sources of supply for raw materials included in their products. Failure of our suppliers to maintain sufficient capability to meet changes in demand or quality, or to overcome unanticipated interruptions in their own sources of supply due to their own supplier's performance failures or force majeure conditions, such as disaster or political unrest, may prevent them from continuing to supply raw materials as we require them, or at all. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of sole or limited source raw materials or to develop alternative sources on a timely basis if required could result in increased costs in our operations, which may be material, and may negatively impact our ability to properly maintain our existing level of operations.. Our raw materials are purchased under supply arrangements that vary from long-term multi-year supply agreements to short term agreements. We also rely on spot suppliers. As a result, we are subject to risks that we may not be able to secure the raw materials needed for our products on favorable terms, or at all. We cannot be sure that the annual or other periodic contracts we have in place for our raw materials can be renewed at all or on similar terms to the current terms. In addition, with respect to those suppliers with whom we do have long-term agreements, we cannot be certain that our suppliers will not seek to terminate, modify or disrupt performance under such agreements. As previously disclosed, in 2016, Nutrien notified us that it is terminating our supply agreement for PPA effective July 2018. As a result of such termination, we are continuing to develop alternatives for future PPA supply needs after July 2018, which could affect our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of some of our products.. Various market conditions beyond our control can affect the price and supply of our raw materials. For example, the cost for phosphate rock and sulfur is heavily influenced by the fertilizer market. Prices for both materials have historically experienced periodic significant fluctuations. Likewise, the cost of natural gas is often positively correlated with petroleum prices. We typically purchase natural gas at spot market prices for use at our facilities, and our business has, from time to time, been negatively impacted by wide fluctuations in natural gas prices. Pricing within most of our supply arrangements is set according to predetermined formulae dependent on price indices or market prices or, with respect to some shorter term contracts, by negotiation with reference to market conditions. The prices we pay under these contracts will generally lag the underlying market prices of the raw material,. Page  11 of 85. Table of Contents. which exposes us to risks in the event the cost of the raw materials decreases quickly. A minority percentage of our raw materials are purchased under fixed annual pricing arrangements, which provides us price certainty and protection against increases in the market cost of such materials but exposes us to risks in the event that the cost of such materials decreases. Increased raw material pricing may adversely affect our margins if we are not able to offset costs with sales price increases. See \"Competition - The success of our business depends on our ability to successfully compete in competitive markets\" below.. Our phosphates-based business can be affected by the availability and cost of phosphate rock. Although there are multiple available global suppliers to supply phosphate rock to our Coatzacoalcos, Mexico site, in 2018, we expect the majority of our phosphate rock requirements to come from a limited number of these suppliers, thus exposing us to risks if any such supplier experiences a significant disruption. Although our Coatzacoalcos facility was upgraded to handle alternative grades of rock without adversely affecting operating efficiency, further investment may be required to realize the full benefits of improved process flexibility, including to address process efficiency issues which may arise over longer time periods as the plant processes rock from various sources.. We are also subject to risks stemming from local social and political conditions in those jurisdictions where the phosphate rock that supports our operations is sourced. The phosphate rock that it utilized by Nutrien to supply MGA to our Geismar, Louisiana facility is subject to those social and political conditions in Western Sahara, where Nutrien sources the phosphate rock, which territory has had a long history of social and political upheaval. If Nutrien is unable to source phosphate rock or sufficient amounts of phosphate rock, our MGA supply would be disrupted and our ability to manufacture our products could be materially adversely affected.. Competition - The success of our business depends on our ability to successfully compete in competitive markets.. We operate in a competitive environment. Our ability to grow our business depends on our ability to effectively compete in each of our targeted markets. Some of our competitors have broader product portfolios, larger market shares, access to larger customer bases, including as a result of a broader geographical footprint, and greater financial resources with respect to the markets in which we compete. Our business will be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to effectively compete in those markets that we target.. Our operations are subject to currency fluctuation transaction risks. We may from time to time be at a competitive disadvantage as a result of the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar, which can place us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to our foreign competitors selling competing products into the markets to which we sell our products.. With respect to our phosphates-based business, we face competition from lower-cost producers, including in connection with import competition, which competition intensifies from time to time as a result of changing exchange rates and production overcapacity. Import competition is heavily influenced by the actions of foreign governments, including the taxation and subsidy policies of China, which actions are frequently unpredictable. Certain producers are integrated back to phosphate rock, which may provide cost advantages to them depending on the markets in which they choose to compete. We also face competition from those suppliers who utilize the \"thermal\" production method, a process more heavily dependent on energy that may be cost advantaged compared to \"wet\" method producers (such as Innophos) during periods of low energy prices. In addition, we also face competition from those competitors continuing to seek to develop improvements to the purified wet acid method to produce PPA, which, if developed, may hurt our competitive position. In addition, new technologies are being developed to attempt to produce PPA at a cheaper cost than the thermal acid method or the purified wet acid method. Any such new or improved technology that is developed would be expected to reduce the barriers to entry and/or significantly increase competition in the markets in which we compete, all of which would be expected to harm our competitive position and our business. Although we have a number of product quality improvement and product enhancement initiatives underway, we cannot assure that our efforts in maintaining differentiation will be successful. We also face competition from competitors offering non-phosphate alternatives to our phosphate-based products, which may intensify as a result of evolving consumer preferences.. The nutritional ingredient market is also competitive in nature. In the nutritional ingredient market, competition is based upon a number of considerations, including product differentiation and innovation, product quality, technical service, and supply reliability. Our competitors continue to seek improvements to their products and manufacturing processes. Our success in the nutritional ingredient market depends on our ability to grow our product portfolio, effectively differentiate our products, supply quality products that comply with evolving regulations, source raw materials in sufficient quantities and at competitive prices and provide customer service that meets or exceeds our customer's expectations.. Food, Health and Nutrition Portfolio - we may not be able to continue to grow our growing nutritional ingredient portfolio due to competitive factors or otherwise.. We are subject to commercial risks in connection with our focus on growing our Food, Health and Nutrition portfolio. Our two acquisitions in 2017 focused on companies with significant nutritional ingredient portfolios. We expect to continue to evaluate. Page  12 of 85. Table of Contents. opportunities to grow our nutritional ingredient portfolio. Our ability to acquire, develop and commercialize nutritional ingredients depends on, among other factors, our ability to adjust to market and consumer trends, effectively compete in the competitive dietary supplement market, generate and grow our brand recognition, conduct studies to generate the data needed to support noted benefits and differentiate our nutritional ingredients and protect our associated intellectual property, including our trademarks. We may not be able to fully commercialize and grow those nutritional ingredients that we acquire or develop internally as a result of any of the foregoing factors, which could materially and negatively impact our business.. Consumer Preferences - Changes in consumer preferences and perceptions may lessen the demand for our products, which could reduce our sales and profitability and harm our business.. Food products are often affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions and demographic trends. For instance, changes in prevailing health or dietary preferences causing consumers to avoid food products containing phosphates in favor of foods that are perceived as being healthier could reduce our sales and profitability. Increasing concern among consumers, public health professionals and government agencies about health and wellness issues represent a significant challenge to some of our customers, including those engaged in the food and beverage industries.. Public perception in the United States, Europe and other markets, which may be driven by public opinions and publications concerning phosphate products in relation to their safety, may affect our sales and operations. Regulators in the United States, Europe and other jurisdictions may choose to change recommended daily intake levels for total phosphate in the diet or added phosphates in food. Ongoing safety evaluation by European Union regulators of phosphate content in food may result in more stringent regulations with respect to phosphates or otherwise influence public perception of the health risks associated with phosphates. In addition, U.S. class action trends related to \"natural\" and \"clean labeling\" in foods, as well as public interest organization spotlighting with respect to environmental impact, may affect our sales and operations. Also, additional demand restrictions may arise from producers reformulating to reduce or eliminate phosphate content, as has been announced over the past few years by major consumer packaged goods manufacturers and major food chains.. In addition, our growing nutritional ingredient portfolio is particularly subject to risks associated with consumer preferences. Our ability to acquire, develop and commercialize nutritional ingredients depends on, among other factors, our ability to understand evolving customer and market trends and our ability to translate these insights into commercially viable new products. If we are unable to do so, in whole or in part, our customer relationships and product sales could be harmed. Furthermore, the nutritional supplements industry is characterized by rapid and frequent changes in demand for products and new product introductions. Our ineffectiveness in accurately predicting these trends could negatively impact consumer opinion of our products, which could harm our customer relationships and cause losses to our market share.. Legal and Regulatory Risks - We are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations and government policies, including with respect to product quality and labeling and the environment, which may change in significant ways.. Our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of laws, rules and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we have operations (United States, Canada, Mexico and China) or conduct business, including the European Union. There can be no assurance that laws, regulations and policies will not evolve in ways that will require us to modify our business models and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs or prohibiting them outright. Our inability to maintain compliance with these evolving regulations would adversely affect the regulatory status of our products and facilities and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Our operations involve the use, handling, processing, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials. In addition, many of our products are ingredients in foods, nutritional supplements or pharmaceutical excipients that are used in finished products consumed or used by humans or animals and accordingly are subject to applicable food safety laws. As a result, we are subject to comprehensive and frequently changing food safety, environmental and other regulatory requirements and periodic inspection by federal, state, local and foreign authorities with jurisdiction over our operations and product markets, including, but not limited to the EPA, the FDA and their foreign counterparts. Moreover, as we increase operations in foreign jurisdictions, such as in China where our facility became operational in 2013, and export existing products into new markets or new products into markets where they have not previously been sold, we are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements in jurisdictions that may have unique challenges or slow processes. Failure to comply with such regulations could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. Currently, we are involved in several compliance and remediation efforts and agency inspections concerning health, safety and environmental matters, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty.. We are subject to a number of risks if we are unable to achieve and maintain compliance with evolving food safety laws. These risks are particularly prevalent as we continue to grow our Food, Health and Nutrition portfolio, including through acquisitions. Worldwide regulatory trends towards increasing regulation of food safety factors to reduce risks, adoption of increased food defense measures and prevention of economic adulteration of food particularly through supply chain management may. Page  13 of 85. Table of Contents. increase our operating costs. For example, in 2011, the United States enacted the Food Safety Modernization Act, or FSMA, which mandates comprehensive, prevention-based controls by food processors to protect the U.S. food supply and provides the FDA with new enforcement authority. The FDA, pursuant to the FSMA, continues to promulgate and finalize the FSMA by implementing regulations. We are subject to substantial risks if we fail to maintain compliance with evolving FSMA requirements and comparable food regulatory requirements in other jurisdictions in which we do business, including enforcement actions, fines, the rescission or denial of operating permits, and other penalties. We are also subject to the increased costs associated with maintaining compliance with such regulatory requirements. In addition, in the United States and other jurisdictions, our products are subject to strict good manufacturing practice, or GMP, regulations established by the FDA and comparable foreign authorities. Compliance with such GMP regulations is costly, and failure to comply could lead to enforcement actions and harm our business.. Additional laws or regulations focused on phosphate-based products may be implemented in the future. As European Union authorities continue to evaluate phosphate content safety considerations in food, any reduction in approved phosphate content could harm our business. In addition, regulators in the United States, the European Union and other jurisdictions may choose to no longer allow phosphates as a synthetic ingredient in products labeled with \"organic\" claims.. A number of states within the United States, and Canada (countrywide), have effectively banned the use of phosphate-based products in consumer automatic dishwashing detergents. In addition, the European Union enacted legislation to effectively ban phosphates in consumer detergents with a first phase that began in 2013, and in Australia an industry-led voluntary phosphate ban took effect in 2014. These trends and related changes in consumer preferences have already reduced our requirements for automatic dishwashing markets and we have responded with a shift in our capabilities to serve other food and industrial applications. Furthermore, although phosphates are still permitted for consumer detergent applications in many Latin American countries and other parts of the world, we cannot be sure that similar bans may not be implemented in some or all of these markets in the future or that additional customers will not reformulate their products to reduce STPP content in an effort to market a reduced phosphate content product line. We expect some detergent grade STPP reformulation in 2018, which will adversely affect our financial results.. Additional laws, regulations or distribution policies focused on reduced use of other phosphate-based products could occur in the future, including new regulations restricting or banning the use of polyphosphoric acid in asphalt road construction. Several states in the United States have regulations relating to the use of polyphosphoric acid in asphalt road construction, many of which restrict such use or require approvals (which may include trials) before such use is permitted. If restrictions are instituted in additional jurisdictions in the United States and Canada, a notable impact on our business could occur.. Changes in composition or permitted-use regulations in domestic or export countries may affect the regulatory status of our products and our ability to sell these products into some markets. Such changes may in turn require us to reformulate or establish alternative raw material sourcing, potentially incurring additional cost. If these measures are not successful, the available markets for our products may be limited.. Our operations also expose us to the risk of claims for environmental remediation and restoration or for exposure to hazardous materials. Our production facilities require various operating permits that are subject to renewal or modification. Violations of environmental laws, regulations, or permits may result in restrictions being imposed on operating activities, substantial fines, penalties, damages, the rescission or denial of operating permits, third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, or other costs.. Some existing environmental laws and regulations impose liability and responsibility on present and former owners, operators or users of facilities and sites for contamination at those locations without regard to causation or knowledge of contamination. Many of our sites have an extended history of industrial use, which may expose us to liability. Soil and groundwater contamination have been detected at some of our sites, and additional contamination might occur or be discovered at these sites or other sites (including sites which we might acquire or to which we may have sent hazardous waste) in the future, which could expose us to liability. For example, future environmental spending is probable at our site in Nashville, Tennessee, as discussed further in Note 17 (Commitments and Contingencies) of the audited financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We continue to investigate, monitor and/or clean-up contamination at most of these sites. In addition, in 2017 we reached an agreement with federal and Louisiana authorities with respect to alleged non-compliance at our Geismar, Louisiana facility, as discussed further in Note 17 (Commitments and Contingencies) of the audited financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This settlement agreement included a fine and subjects us to ongoing compliance obligations, including with respect to our implementation of a government-approved deep well injection system at the plant to handle the co-product separated at the site. If we fail to fully operationalize this deep well injection system and comply with the associated ongoing compliance obligations, we could be forced to develop alternative solutions for handling the subject co-product, which alternatives may be costly and time-consuming, and we could face additional fines and other penalties. Due to the uncertainties associated with environmental investigations, clean-ups and other obligations, as well as the ongoing nature of the investigations, clean-ups and other obligations at our sites, we cannot predict precisely the nature, cost, and timing of our future remedial obligations with respect to our sites.. Page  14 of 85. Table of Contents. International Operations - We are subject to a variety of risks with respect to our foreign operations.. We have production operations in China, Mexico and Canada. We evaluate business opportunities that may expand our operations to other areas beyond our current operations. We believe that revenue from sales outside the United States will continue to account for a material portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. There are inherent risks in international operations, including currency fluctuations and devaluations, economic and business conditions that differ from U.S. cycles, divergent social and political conditions that may become unsettled or even disruptive, communication and translation delays and errors due to cultural and language barriers and less predictable outcomes from differing legal and judicial systems. Our risks in those regards are likely to be greatest as we continue to grow our business in China, where we are subject to risks associated with complying with China's regulatory requirements, changes in local economic conditions, currency devaluations, and potential disruption from socio-political activities in that country. Among the additional risks potentially affecting our Mexican operations are changes in local economic conditions, currency devaluations, renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement, potential disruption from socio-political violence in that country, and difficulty in contract enforcement due to differences in the Mexican legal and regulatory regimes compared to those of the United States. Risks to our Canadian operations include a differing federal and provincial regulatory environment from that in the United States, currency fluctuations and devaluations. In the event that we establish operations in additional regions, our exposures to risks from the noted causes and from other as yet unknown causes may increase.. In addition, we are required to comply with the laws of each jurisdiction in which we have operations or sell our products, including safety and quality laws, product and facility registration laws, marketing laws, environmental laws, antitrust laws, anti-bribery laws and import and export control laws. The laws of these jurisdictions vary significantly, and we have limited experience in complying with the laws of certain such jurisdictions. Violations of such laws may result in restrictions being imposed on our operating activities, substantial fines, civil or criminal penalties, damages, the rescission of operating permits, third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, or other costs.. Our overall success as a multinational business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social and political conditions. Among other things, we are faced with potential difficulties in staffing and managing local workforces and designing and effecting solutions to manage commercial risks posed by local customers and distributors. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business. These risks are not limited to only those countries where we actually operate facilities, but may extend to areas and regions that supply and service our facilities or are supplied and serviced by them.. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibit U.S. companies, their subsidiaries and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. We are also subject to the comparable anti-corruption laws of other countries in which we conduct business. We sell many of our products in developing countries through third-party sales agents and distributors whose personnel are not subject to our disciplinary procedures. Although we and our subsidiaries are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner wherever we operate, and we communicate and seek to monitor compliance with our policies by all who do business with us, we cannot be sure that all of our third party distributors or agents will remain in full compliance with the FCPA or comparable foreign regulations at all times. Violations of the FCPA or similar anti-corruption laws by us or our distributors or agents may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, could disrupt our business, and could adversely affect our reputation.. Labor Relations - Our profitability could be negatively impacted if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations.. A significant portion of our U.S. employees and a substantial majority of our non-U.S. employees are members of unions. Strikes, lockouts or other work stoppages or slowdowns involving our unionized employees could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Product Liability Exposure - We may be subject to costly product liability claims with respect to our products.. Many of our products are functional or fortification additives used in the food and beverage, consumer product, nutritional supplement and pharmaceutical industries. The sale of these additives and our customers' products that include them involve the risk of product liability and personal injury claims, which may be brought by our customers or end-users of our customers' products. Although we endeavor to adhere to stringent quality standards in the course of their production, storage and transportation, our products could be subject to adverse effects from foreign matter such as moisture, dust, odors, insects, mold or other substances, or from excessive temperature variations. Our products may also be susceptible to non-conformance resulting from the raw materials we use to manufacture our products or other products supplied to us by third parties that we resell, as well as quality issues resulting from contract manufacturers that we utilize. In addition, we could be subject to claims by end-users of our customers' products that incorporate our products that our customers have mislabeled or misrepresented the benefits of their products sold to such end-users. Historically, we have not been subject to material product liability claims, and no material claims are outstanding. However,. Page  15 of 85. Table of Contents. because our products are used in manufacturing a wide variety of our customers' products, including those ingested by humans, and we have concentrated the recent growth of our business in those areas, we cannot be sure we will not be subject to material product liability or recall claims in the future. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in: decreased demand for our products; regulatory investigations that could require costly recalls or product modifications; loss of revenues; substantial costs of litigation; liabilities that substantially exceed our product liability insurance, which we would then be required to pay ourselves; an increase in our product liability insurance rates; and damage to our reputation and the reputation of our products.. Production Facility Operating Hazards - We may be subject to liability with respect to the operations of our production facilities.. Our production facilities are subject to hazards associated with the manufacturing, handling, storage and transportation of chemical substances and products, including failure of pipeline integrity, explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters, terrorist attacks, mechanical failures, unscheduled downtime, transportation or utility interruptions, remedial complications, chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances, storage tank leaks and other environmental risks. Although we have implemented and installed various management systems and engineering controls and procedures at all our production facilities to enhance safety and minimize these risks and we insure our facilities to protect against a range of risks, these potential hazards continue to exist and could cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and environmental and natural resource damage, and may result in a suspension of operations (or extended shutdowns) and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties, whose nature, timing, severity and non-insured exposures are unknown. In addition, we do not have backup production capabilities in place for all of our production facilities. If we experience a disruption at any of our production facilities, it could have a material and adverse effect on our operations.. Intellectual Property Rights - If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our position in our markets may be materially and adversely affected.. We rely on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and agreements, and patent, trademark, copyright, unfair competition, trade secrecy, and other intellectual property laws to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights on a worldwide basis. Nonetheless, we cannot be sure that any pending patent application or trademark application will result in an issued patent or registered trademark, that any issued or registered patents or trademarks will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable or that our confidentiality procedures will maintain the confidentiality of our confidential information. In addition, with respect to the intellectual property rights that we license from a third party, we cannot be certain that such third party will take all steps necessary to protect such rights from infringement by a third party. Our ability to protect our intellectual property, including intellectual property that we license from third parties, is particularly important as we seek to continue to grow our branded nutritional ingredient portfolio. The use of our intellectual property (owned or licensed by us) by others could reduce any competitive advantage we have developed or otherwise harm our business. Failure to protect the intellectual property associated with our branded nutritional ingredients in particular may have a material adverse effect on the sales of such products. Moreover, we cannot be sure that our intellectual property rights can be asserted in all cases, particularly in an international context, or that we can defend ourselves successfully or cost-effectively against the assertion of rights by others.. Contingency Planning - We may face operational challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We operate a number of manufacturing facilities in the United States, Mexico, Canada and China, and we coordinate company activities, including our sales, customer service, information technology systems and administrative services and the like, through headquarters operated in those countries.. Our sites and those of others who provide services to them are subject to varying risks of disaster and follow on consequences, both manmade and natural, that could degrade or render inoperable one or more of our facilities for an extended period of time. Such disaster related risks and effects are not predictable with certainty and, although they can be mitigated, they cannot be completely prevented. Although we review and analyze risks applicable to our business, the factors that actually affect us may not be those we have concluded are most likely to occur. Furthermore, although our reviews have led to more systematic contingency planning, our plans are in varying stages of development and execution, such that they may not be adequate at the time of occurrence for the magnitude of any particular disaster event that befalls us.. We depend on our information technology systems for the efficient functioning of our business, including accounting, sales and order processing, data storage, compliance, purchasing and inventory management. Although we attempt to mitigate interruptions to these systems, we may experience unanticipated interruptions, including in connection with implementing certain upgrades to these systems. In addition, we may experience difficulties in operating our business during an upgrade. Any such disruption to these systems could disrupt our business, including our ability to timely ship and track product orders, project inventory requirements, manage our supply chain and otherwise adequately service our customers. In addition, we may not be able to repair any disruption to our systems in an efficient and timely manner.. Page  16 of 85. Table of Contents. Increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and sophisticated and targeted cyber-related attacks pose a risk to the security of our and our customers', partners', suppliers' and third-party service providers' respective products, systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our and our customers' data. Although we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, we remain potentially vulnerable to additional known or unknown threats. We may have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls. Despite our efforts to protect sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, we may be vulnerable to material security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming errors, employee errors and/or malfeasance that could potentially lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions. In addition, a cyber-related attack could result in other negative consequences, including damage to our reputation or competitiveness, costly and time-consuming remediation or increased protection actions, litigation or regulatory action.. Acquisition Risks - Any acquisitions or divestitures we make could disrupt our business and not produce the expected benefits of such transaction.. In 2017, we completed two acquisitions. We will continue from time to time to consider certain acquisitions or divestitures. Acquisitions and divestitures involve numerous risks, including identifying attractive target acquisitions, undisclosed risks affecting the target, difficulties integrating acquired businesses, the assumption of unknown liabilities, potential adverse effects on existing business relationships with current customers and suppliers and overall increased demand on our employees' time and resources.. We cannot provide assurance that any acquisitions or divestitures, including the two acquisitions that we consummated in 2017, will perform as planned or prove to be beneficial to our operations and cash flow, or that we will be able to successfully integrate any acquisitions that we undertake. Any such failure could harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Certain Financial Risks. Impairment Charges - The recognition of impairment charges on goodwill or long-lived assets could adversely impact our future financial position and results of operations.. We have approximately $257 million of total intangible assets at December 31, 2017, consisting of $153 million of goodwill and $104 million of other intangible assets. Additionally, we have approximately $219 million of long-lived assets at December 31, 2017.. We perform an annual impairment assessment for goodwill and our indefinite-lived intangible assets, and as necessary, for other long-lived assets. If the results of such assessments were to show that the fair value of these assets were less than the carrying values, we could be required to recognize a charge for impairment of goodwill and/or long-lived assets and the amount of the impairment charge could be material. Based on the results of the annual assessment, we concluded that as of December 31, 2017, the fair value of all of our reporting units was greater than their carrying value.. Even though it was determined that there was no additional goodwill impairment as of December 31, 2017, the future occurrence of a potential indicator of impairment, such as a significant adverse change in the business climate that would require a change in our assumptions or strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions, could require us to perform an assessment prior to the next required assessment date during the fourth quarter of 2018.. Tax Rates - Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could impact our profitability.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in various other foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings by jurisdiction, changes in tax laws or tax rates including recent tax reform in the United States to broaden the tax base and reduce deductions or credits, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and material adjustments from tax audits.. The recoverability of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly applicable in the United States, is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in these jurisdictions. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability.. Interest Rates - Increased interest rates could increase our borrowing costs.. From time to time we may issue securities or seek additional borrowings to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures, working capital and for other general corporate purposes. An increase in our net leverage position, and an increase in interest rates in the. Page  17 of 85. Table of Contents. general economy could result in an increase in our borrowing costs for these financings, as well as under any existing debt that bears interest at an un-hedged floating rate.. Contingencies Affecting Dividends - Our ability to pay dividends in the future may be compromised.. After our common stock became publicly traded in 2006, our Board of Directors initiated a policy of paying regular quarterly cash dividends, subject to the availability of funds, legal and contractual restrictions and prudent needs of our business. We have maintained that policy and paid dividends continuously since that time, making payments that we believed were prudent and promoted stockholder value. However, we are a holding company that does not conduct any business operations of our own. As a result, we are normally dependent upon cash dividends, distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries, most directly Innophos, Inc., our primary operating subsidiary, and Innophos Investment Holdings, Inc., the direct subsidiary of Innophos Holdings, Inc. and the direct parent company of Innophos, Inc., to make dividend payments on our common stock. The amounts available to us to pay cash dividends are restricted by provisions of Delaware law and historically, and we expect for the future, also by limitations in our debt facilities. As allowed by existing debt instruments, we may incur additional indebtedness that may restrict to an even greater degree, or prohibit, the payment of dividends on stock. We cannot be sure the level of our operations or agreements governing our current or future indebtedness will permit us to adhere to our current dividend policy, increase dividends, or pay any dividends at all, or that continued payment of dividends will remain prudent for our business in the future judgment of our Board of Directors.. Credit Facility Risks - Our credit facility restricts our current and future operations.. In December 2016, we entered into a credit agreement with a group of lenders to establish a credit facility, which credit facility essentially replaced our existing credit facility at that time. This credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions on us, including affirmative and negative covenants that prohibit or limit a variety of actions by Innophos generally without the lenders' approval. These include covenants that affect our ability, among other things, to: incur or guarantee indebtedness; create liens; enter into mergers, recapitalizations or assets purchases or sales; change names; make certain changes to our business; make restricted payments that include dividends, purchases and redemptions of equity; make advances, investments or loans; effect sales and leasebacks; enter into transactions with affiliates; allow negative pledges or limitations on the repayment abilities of subsidiaries; or amend subordinated debt. In addition to these restrictions and covenants, our credit facility requires us to comply with specified financial maintenance covenants. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants. In addition, any of these restrictions or covenants could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet certain capital needs and could otherwise restrict our corporate activities. For example, our results of operations may limit our borrowing base to a level below that which we seek to establish. Any such limitation could harm our business.. Additional Funding - We may not have access to the funds required for future growth and expansion.. We may need additional funds to grow and expand our operations. We expect to fund our capital expenditures from operating cash flow to the extent we are able to do so and from our credit facility. If our operating cash flow is insufficient to fund our capital expenditures, we may either reduce our capital expenditures or further utilize our credit facility. For further strategic growth through mergers or acquisitions, we may also seek to generate additional liquidity, including beyond our existing credit facility, through the sale of debt or equity securities in private or public markets, through the sale of non-productive assets or through additional borrowings under our existing credit facility and/or additional facilities. We cannot provide any assurance that our cash flows from operations and our existing credit facility will be sufficient to fund anticipated capital expenditures or that we will be able to obtain additional funds from financial markets or from the sale of assets at terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or raise sufficient additional funds to cover our capital expenditures or other strategic growth opportunities, we may not be able to achieve our desired operating efficiencies and expansion plans, which may adversely impact our competitiveness and, therefore, our results of operations.. Page  18 of 85. Table of Contents"
