[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to our Business. For the foreseeable future we will derive all of our royalty revenues from GSK and our future success depends on GSK's ability to successfully develop and commercialize the products in the respiratory programs partnered with GSK.. Pursuant to the GSK Agreements, GSK is responsible for the development and commercialization of products in the partnered respiratory programs. Royalty revenues from RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® and ANORO® ELLIPTA® are expected to represent the majority of our foreseeable future revenues from GSK. The amount and timing of revenue from such royalties are unknown and highly uncertain. Our future success depends upon the performance by GSK of its commercial obligations under the GSK Agreements and the commercial success of RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA®, ANORO® ELLIPTA® and TRELEGY® ELLIPTA®. We have no control over GSK's marketing and sales efforts, and GSK might not be successful, which would harm our business and cause the price of our securities to fall.. The amount of royalties and milestone payments, if any, we receive will depend on many factors, including the following:. <U+0095> the extent and effectiveness of the sales and marketing and distribution support GSK provides to our partnered products;     <U+0095> market acceptance and demand for our partnered products;    <U+0095> changes in the treatment paradigm or standard of care for COPD or asthma, for instance through changes to the GOLD (Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease) guidelines;    <U+0095> the competitive landscape of generic and branded products and developing therapies that compete with our partnered products, including TRELEGY® ELLIPTA® or products owned by GSK (such as Advair®) but which are not partnered with us and pricing pressure in the respiratory markets targeted by our partnered products;    <U+0095> the size of the market for our partnered products;    <U+0095> the mix of sales of our partnered products;    <U+0095> decisions as to the timing of product launches, pricing and discounts;    <U+0095> GSK reprioritizing its commercial efforts on other products, including TRELEGY® ELLIPTA® or products owned by GSK (such as Advair®) but which are not partnered with us;    <U+0095> GSK's ability to expand the indications for which our partnered products can be marketed;    <U+0095> a satisfactory efficacy and safety profile as demonstrated in a broad patient population;    <U+0095> acceptance of, and ongoing satisfaction with, our partnered products by the medical community, patients receiving therapy and third party payors;. 11. Table of Contents. <U+0095> the ability of patients to be able to afford our partnered products or obtain health care coverage that covers our partnered products;     <U+0095> safety concerns in the marketplace for respiratory therapies in general and with our partnered products in particular;     <U+0095> regulatory developments relating to the manufacture or continued use of our partnered products;    <U+0095> the requirement to conduct additional post-approval studies or trials for our partnered products;    <U+0095> decisions by GSK with respect to the MABA program;    <U+0095> GSK's ability to obtain regulatory approval of our partnered products in additional countries;    <U+0095> the unfavorable outcome of any potential litigation relating to our partnered products; or    <U+0095> general economic conditions in the jurisdictions where our partnered products are sold, including microeconomic disruptions or slowdowns.. If the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities approve generic products, including but not limited to generic forms of Advair®, that compete with RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® and ANORO® ELLIPTA®, or generic form of RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA®, the royalties payable to us pursuant to the LABA Collaboration Agreement will be less than anticipated, which in turn would harm our business and the price of our securities could fall.. Once an NDA or marketing authorization application outside the United States is approved, the product covered thereby becomes a \"listed drug\" that can, in turn, be cited by potential competitors in support of approval of an Abbreviated New Drug Application (\"ANDA\") in the United States. Agency regulations and other applicable regulations and policies provide incentives to manufacturers to create modified, non-infringing versions of a drug to facilitate the approval of an ANDA or other application for generic substitutes in the United States and in nearly every pharmaceutical market around the world. Numerous companies like Mylan N.V., Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC (Hikma), Novartis' Sandoz division and Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. (Teva) have publicly stated their intentions to bring generic forms of the ICS/LABA drug Advair®, when certain patents covering the Advair® delivery device expired in 2016. In March 2017, Mylan N.V. received a complete response letter from the FDA relating to its ANDA for fluticasone propionate 100, 250, 500 mcg and salmeterol 50 mcg inhalation powder. In May 2017, Hikma announced that it received a complete response letter form the FDA relating to its ANDA for fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder, and in February 2018, Novartis announced that its generic division Sandoz, had received a complete response letter from FDA in response to its ANDA for a third fluticasone proprionate and salmeterol product. Lastly, Teva announced recently that the FDA approved two of their products for adolescent and adult patients with asthma, one of which is AirDuoTM RespiClick® (fluticasone propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder) a non-AB substitutable generic versions of Advair®. In general, these manufactures are required to conduct a restricted number of clinical efficacy, pharmacokinetic and device studies to demonstrate equivalence to Advair, per FDA's September 2013 Draft Guidance document. These studies are designed to demonstrate that the generic product has the same active ingredient(s), dosage form, strength, exposure and clinical efficacy as the branded product. These generic equivalents, which must meet the same exacting quality standards as branded products, may be significantly less costly to bring to market, and companies that produce generic equivalents are generally able to offer their products at lower prices. Thus, after the introduction of a generic competitor, a significant percentage of the sales of any branded product and products that may compete with such branded product is typically lost to the generic product. In addition, in April 2016, the FDA issued draft guidelines documents covering Fluticasone Furoate/Vilanterol Trifenatate (FF/VI), the active ingredients used in RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA®. Accordingly, introduction of generic products that compete against. 12. Table of Contents. ICS/LABA products, like RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® and ANORO® ELLIPTA®, would materially adversely impact our future royalty revenue, profitability and cash flows. We cannot yet ascertain what impact these generic products and any future approved generic products will have on any sales of RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® or ANORO® ELLIPTA®, if approved.. Reduced prices and reimbursement rates due to the actions of governments, payors, or competition or other healthcare cost containment initiatives such as restrictions on use, may negatively impact royalties generated under the GSK Agreements.. The continuing efforts of governments, pharmaceutical benefit management organizations (PBMs), insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care costs to contain or reduce costs of health care has adversely affected the price, market access, and total revenues of RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® and ANORO® ELLIPTA® and may continue to adversely affect them in the future. In addition, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience increased competitive activity which has resulted in lower overall prices for our products.. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (together, \"PPACA\") and other legislative or regulatory requirements or potential legislative or regulatory actions regarding healthcare and insurance matters, along with the trend toward managed healthcare in the U.S., could adversely influence the purchase of healthcare products and reduce demand and prices for our partnered products. This could harm GSK's ability to market our partnered products and significantly reduce future revenues. For example, when GSK launched BREO® ELLIPTA® for the treatment of COPD in the U.S. in October 2013, GSK experienced significant challenges gaining coverage at some of the largest PBMs, healthcare payors, and providers and lower overall prices than expected. Recent actions by U.S. PBMs in particular have increased discount levels for respiratory products resulting in lower net sales pricing realized for products in our collaboration. In addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable. We believe that pricing pressures will continue and may increase. This may make it difficult for GSK to sell our partnered products at a price acceptable to us or GSK or to generate revenues in line with our analysts' or investors' expectations, which may cause the price of our securities to fall.. More recently, the current presidential administration and the U.S. Congress have taken actions in an effort to replace PPACA and related legislation with new healthcare legislation. There is uncertainty with respect to the impact these potential changes may have, if any, and any changes will likely take time to unfold, and could have an impact on coverage and reimbursement for healthcare items and services covered by plans that were authorized by PPACA. However, we cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare reform legislation or the impact of potential legislation on us.. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for our products once approved or additional pricing pressures, and may adversely affect our operating results.. The majority of our current revenues are from royalties derived from sales of our respiratory products partnered with GSK, RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® and ANORO® ELLIPTA®. If the treatment paradigm for the indications our partnered products are approved for change or if GSK is unable to, or does not devote sufficient resources to, maintain or continue increasing sales of these products, our results of operations will be adversely affected.. We currently depend on royalties from sales of our products partnered with GSK to support our existing operations. The treatment paradigm for COPD and asthma constantly evolve. For instance, in. 13. Table of Contents. December 2016, the GOLD (Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease) guidelines were revised to favorably position LABA/LAMA treatment compared to ICS/LABA for the treatment of COPD. If the treatment paradigms were to change further, causing our partnered products to fall out of favor, or if GSK was unable, or did not devote sufficient resources, to maintain or continue increasing RELVAR®/ BREO® ELLIPTA® and ANORO® ELLIPTA® sales, our results of operations would likely suffer and we may need to scale back our operations.. If the commercialization of RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA®, ANORO® ELLIPTA® or TRELEGY® ELLIPTA® in the countries in which they have received regulatory approval encounters any delays or adverse developments, or perceived delays or adverse developments, or if sales or payor coverage do not meet investors, analysts or our expectations, our business will be harmed, and the price of our securities could fall.. Under our agreements with our collaborative partner GSK, GSK has full responsibility for commercialization of RELVAR®/ BREO® ELLIPTA®, ANORO® ELLIPTA® or TRELEGY® ELLIPTA®. GSK has launched RELVAR®/ BREO® ELLIPTA® and ANORO® ELLIPTA® in a number of countries including the United States (U.S.), Canada, Japan, the United Kingdom, and Germany among others. The commercialization of both products in countries where they are already launched and the commercialization launch in new countries are still subject to fluctuating overall pricing levels and uncertain timeframes to obtain payor coverage. Any delays or adverse developments or perceived additional delays or adverse developments with respect to the commercialization of RELVAR®/ BREO® ELLIPTA®, ANORO® ELLIPTA® and TRELEGY® ELLIPTA® including if sales or payor coverage do not meet investors, analysts or our expectations, will significantly harm our business and the price of our securities could fall.. We are dependent on GSK for the successful commercialization and development of products under the GSK Agreements. If GSK does not devote sufficient resources to the commercialization or development of these products, is unsuccessful in its efforts, or chooses to reprioritize its commercial programs, including TRELEGY® ELLIPTA®, our business will be materially harmed.. Although we provide support of marketing and sales work through our participation to the Joint Steering Committee, GSK is responsible for all clinical and other product development, regulatory, manufacturing and commercialization activities for products developed under the GSK Agreements, including RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA®, ANORO® ELLIPTA® and TRELEGY® ELLIPTA®. Our royalty revenues under the GSK Agreements may not meet our, analysts', or investors' expectations, due to a number of important factors. GSK has a substantial respiratory product portfolio in addition to the partnered products that are covered by the GSK Agreements. GSK may make respiratory product portfolio decisions or statements about its portfolio which may be, or may be perceived to be, harmful to the respiratory products partnered with us. For instance, GSK has wide discretion in determining the efforts and resources that it will apply to the development and commercialization of our partnered products. GSK is currently evaluating next steps with respect to the MABA program. In the event that GSK terminates this or any other development program (other than RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® and ANORO® ELLIPTA®) pursuant to agreements entered into in connection with the Spin-Off, the right to such programs would revert to Theravance Biopharma. The timing and amount of royalties that we may receive will depend on, among other things, the efforts, allocation of resources and successful development and commercialization of these product candidates by GSK. In addition, GSK may determine to focus its commercialization efforts on its own products or TRELEGY® ELLIPTA®. For example, in January 2015, GSK launched Incruse® (Umec) in the U.S., which is a LAMA for the treatment of COPD. GSK may determine to focus its marketing efforts on Incruse, which could have the effect of decreasing the potential market share of ANORO® ELLIPTA® and lowering the royalties we may receive for such product. Alternatively, GSK may decide to market Incruse® in combination with RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® as an open triple therapy alternative to TRELEGY® ELLIPTA®, or market TRELEGY® ELLIPTA® to eventually compete directly against. 14. Table of Contents. sales of RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA®. Following the FDA approval of TRELEGY® ELLIPTA® in September 2017, GSK's diligent efforts obligations regarding commercialization matters now has the objective of focusing on the best interests of patients and maximizing the net value of the overall portfolio of products under the GSK Agreements. Since GSK's commercialization efforts following this regulatory approval is guided by a portfolio approach across products in which we have retained our full interest and also products in which we now have only a small portion of our former interest, GSK's commercialization efforts may have the effect of reducing the overall value of our remaining interests in the GSK Agreements in the future. If GSK prioritizes TRELEGY® ELLIPTA®, we will only be entitled to a 15% economic interest of the royalties paid pursuant to the GSK Agreements with respect to this product. In the event GSK does not devote sufficient resources to the development or commercialization of our partnered products or chooses to reprioritize its commercial programs, our business, operations and stock price would be negatively affected.. Any adverse change in FDA policy or guidance regarding the use of LABAs to treat asthma may significantly harm our business and the price of our securities could fall.. On February 18, 2010, the FDA announced that LABAs should not be used alone in the treatment of asthma and it will require manufacturers to include this warning in the product labels of these drugs, along with taking other steps to reduce the overall use of these medicines. The FDA now requires that the product labels for LABA medicines reflect, among other things, that the use of LABAs is contraindicated without the use of an asthma controller medication such as an inhaled corticosteroid, that LABAs should only be used long-term in patients whose asthma cannot be adequately controlled on asthma controller medications, and that LABAs should be used for the shortest duration of time required to achieve control of asthma symptoms and discontinued, if possible, once asthma control is achieved. In addition, in March 2010, the FDA held an Advisory Committee to discuss the design of medical research studies (known as \"clinical trial design\") to evaluate serious asthma outcomes (such as hospitalizations, a procedure using a breathing tube known as intubation, or death) with the use of LABAs in the treatment of asthma in adults, adolescents, and children. Further, in April 2011, the FDA announced that to further evaluate the safety of LABAs, it is requiring the manufacturers of currently marketed LABAs to conduct additional randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trials comparing the addition of LABAs to inhaled corticosteroids versus inhaled corticosteroids alone. These post-marketing studies have been completed, however, the FDA has not taken any action to remove the required warning from the product labels for LABA medicines. It is unknown at this time what, if any, effect these or future FDA actions will have on the prospects for FF/VI. The current uncertainty regarding the FDA's position on LABAs for the treatment of asthma and the lack of consensus expressed at the March 2010 Advisory Committee may result in the FDA requiring additional asthma clinical trials in the U.S. for FF/VI and increase the overall risk of FF/VI for the treatment of asthma in the U.S. We cannot predict the extent to which new FDA policy or guidance might significantly impede the discovery, development, production and marketing of FF/VI. Any adverse change in FDA policy or guidance regarding the use of LABAs to treat asthma may significantly harm our business and the price of our securities could fall.. Any adverse developments to the regulatory status of either RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA®, ANORO® ELLIPTA® or TRELEGY® ELLIPTA® in the countries in which they have received regulatory approval including labeling restrictions, safety findings, or any other limitation to usage, will harm our business and may cause the price of our securities to fall.. Although RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA®, ANORO® ELLIPTA® or TRELEGY® ELLIPTA® are approved and marketed in a number of countries, it is possible that adverse changes to the regulatory status of these products could occur in the event new safety issues are identified, treatment guidelines are changed, or new studies fail to demonstrate product benefits. A number of notable pharmaceutical products have experienced adverse developments during commercialization that have resulted in the. 15. Table of Contents. product being withdrawn, approved uses being limited, or new warnings being included. In the event that any adverse regulatory change was to occur to any of our products, our business will be harmed and the price of our securities could fall.. Any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to the ongoing studies for FF/VI in asthma or COPD, for UMEC/VI in COPD, or any future studies will significantly harm our business and the price of our securities could fall, and if regulatory authorities in those countries in which approval has not yet been granted determine that the ongoing studies for FF/VI in asthma or COPD or the ongoing studies for UMEC/VI for COPD do not demonstrate adequate safety and efficacy, the continued development of FF/VI or UMEC/VI or both may be significantly delayed, they may not be approved by these regulatory authorities, and even if approved it may be subject to restrictive labeling, any of which will harm our business, and the price of our securities could fall.. Although we have announced the completion of, and reported certain top-line data from, the Phase 3 registrational program for FF/VI in COPD and asthma, additional studies of FF/VI are underway or may commence in the future. Any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to any prior, current or future studies in these programs will significantly harm our business and the price of our securities could fall. For example, in September 2015, GSK and we announced that the Study to Understand Mortality and MorbidITy (SUMMIT) did not meet its primary endpoints, which resulted in a significant decline in the price of our stock.. Although the FDA, the European Medicines Agency, the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and Health Canada and other jurisdictions have approved ANORO® ELLIPTA®, it has not yet been approved in all jurisdictions.. Any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to other pending or future regulatory submissions for the FF/VI program or the UMEC/VI program will significantly harm our business and the price of our securities could fall. Examples of such adverse developments include, but are not limited to:. <U+0095> not every study, nor every dose in every study, in the Phase 3 programs for FF/VI achieved its primary endpoint and regulatory authorities may determine that additional clinical studies are required;    <U+0095> safety, efficacy or other concerns arising from clinical or non-clinical studies in these programs having to do with the LABA VI, which is a component of FF/VI and UMEC/VI;    <U+0095> analysts adjusting their sales forecasts downward from previous projections based on results or interpretations of results of prior, current or future studies;    <U+0095> safety, efficacy or other concerns arising from clinical or non-clinical studies in these programs;    <U+0095> regulatory authorities determining that the Phase 3 programs in asthma or in COPD raise safety concerns or do not demonstrate adequate efficacy; or    <U+0095> any change in FDA (or comparable foreign regulatory agency) policy or guidance regarding the use of LABAs to treat asthma or the use of LABAs combined with a LAMA to treat COPD.. RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® and ANORO® ELLIPTA® face substantial competition for their intended uses in the targeted markets from products discovered, developed, launched and commercialized both by GSK and by other pharmaceutical companies, which could cause the royalties payable to us pursuant to the LABA Collaboration Agreement to be less than expected, which in turn would harm our business and the price of our securities could fall.. GSK has responsibility for obtaining regulatory approval, launching and commercializing RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® and ANORO® ELLIPTA® for their intended uses in the targeted. 16. Table of Contents. markets around the world. While these products have received regulatory approval and been launched and commercialized in the U.S. and certain other targeted markets, the products face substantial competition from existing products previously developed and commercialized both by GSK and by other competing pharmaceutical companies and can expect to face additional competition from new products that are discovered, developed and commercialized by the same pharmaceutical companies and other competitors going forward. For example, sales of Advair®, GSK's approved medicine for both COPD and asthma, continue to be significantly greater than sales of RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA®, and GSK has indicated publicly that it intends to continue commercializing Advair®.. Many of the pharmaceutical companies competing in respiratory markets are international in scope with substantial financial, technical and personnel resources that permit them to discover, develop, obtain regulatory approval and commercialize new products in a highly efficient and low cost manner at competitive prices to consumers. In addition, many of these competitors have substantial commercial infrastructure that facilitates commercializing their products in a highly efficient and low cost manner at competitive prices to consumers. The market for products developed for treatment of COPD and asthma continues to experience significant innovation and reduced cost in bringing products to market over time. There can be no assurance that RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® and ANORO® ELLIPTA® will not be replaced by new products that are deemed more effective at lower cost to consumers. The ability of RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® and ANORO® ELLIPTA® to succeed and achieve the anticipated level of sales depends on the commercial and development performance of GSK to achieve and maintain a competitive advantage over other products with the same intended use in the targeted markets.. In addition, following the September 2017 FDA approval of TRELEGY® ELLIPTA®, GSK's diligent efforts obligations regarding commercialization matters has the objective of focusing on the best interests of patients and maximizing the net value of the overall portfolio of products under the GSK Agreements. Since GSK's commercialization efforts following this regulatory approval is guided by a portfolio approach across products in which we have retained our full interest and also products in which we now have only a small portion of our former interest, GSK's commercialization efforts may have the effect of reducing the overall value of our remaining interests in the GSK Agreements in the future. If GSK prioritizes TRELEGY® ELLIPTA®, we would only be entitled to a 15% economic interest in the future payments made by GSK under the GSK Agreements with respect to this product.. If sales of RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® and ANORO® ELLIPTA® are less than anticipated because of existing or future competition in the markets in which they are commercialized, including competition from existing and new products that are perceived as lower cost or more effective, our royalty payments will be less than anticipated, which in turn would harm our business and the price of our securities could fall.. We and GSK recently received regulatory approval in the US and positive regulatory opinion in Europe for TRELEGY® ELLIPTA® as triple combination treatments for COPD. As a result of the Spin-Off, most of our economic rights in this program and other programs were assigned to Theravance Biopharma. If these programs are successful and GSK and the respiratory market in general views triple combination therapy as significantly more beneficial than existing therapies, including RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® and ANORO® ELLIPTA®, our business could be harmed, and the price of our securities could fall.. The use of triple therapy is supported by the GOLD (\"Global initiative for chronic Obstructive Lung Disease\") guidelines in high-risk patients with severe COPD and a high risk of exacerbations. Prior to the Spin-Off of Theravance Biopharma, Inc. (\"Theravance Biopharma\") in June 2014 (the \"Spin-Off\"), we were entitled to receive 100% of any royalties payable under the GSK Agreements arising from sales of TRELEGY® ELLIPTA® and any other product or combination of products that may be discovered and developed in the future under the GSK Agreements. As a result of the transactions effected by the Spin-Off, however, we are now only entitled to receive 15% of any. 17. Table of Contents. contingent payments and royalties payable by GSK from sales of TRELEGY® ELLIPTA® and any other product or combination of products that may be discovered and developed in the future under the GSK Agreements which were assigned to TRC while Theravance Biopharma receives 85% of those same payments. The commercial success of RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® may be adversely effected if GSK or the respiratory markets view TRELEGY® ELLIPTA® or other combination therapies as more beneficial. GSK's diligent efforts obligations regarding commercialization matters has the objective of focusing on the best interests of patients and maximizing the net value of the overall portfolio of products under the GSK Agreements. Since GSK's commercialization efforts following this regulatory approval is guided by a portfolio approach across products in which we have retained our full interest and also products in which we now have only a small portion of our former interest, GSK's commercialization efforts may have the effect of reducing the overall value of our remaining interests in the GSK Agreements in the future.. In the event that Theravance Biopharma defaults or breaches the agreements we entered into with them in connection with the Spin-Off, our business and results of operations may be materially harmed.. Upon the Spin-Off, our facility leases in South San Francisco, California were assigned to Theravance Biopharma. However, if Theravance Biopharma were to default on its lease obligations, we would be held liable by the landlord and thus, we have in substance guaranteed the lease payments for these facilities. We would also be responsible for lease-related payments including utilities, property taxes, and common area maintenance, which may be as much as the actual lease payments. As of December 31, 2017, the total remaining lease payments, which run through May 2020, were $15.6 million. In the event that Theravance Biopharma defaults on such obligations, our business and results of operations may be materially harmed.. Under the terms of a separation and distribution agreement entered into between us and Theravance Biopharma, Theravance Biopharma will indemnify us from (i) all debts, liabilities and obligations transferred to Theravance Biopharma in connection with the Spin-Off (including its failure to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any such debts, liabilities or obligations after the Spin-Off), (ii) any misstatement or omission of a material fact in its information statement filed with the SEC, resulting in a misleading statement and (iii) any breach by it of certain agreements entered into between the parties in connection with the Spin-Off. Theravance Biopharma's ability to satisfy these indemnities, if called upon to do so, will depend upon its future financial strength and if we are not able to collect on indemnification rights from Theravance Biopharma, our financial condition may be harmed.. U.S. federal income tax reform could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, U.S. federal tax legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), was signed into law, significantly reforming the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. The TCJA, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system and modifies or repeals many business deductions and credits.. We continue to examine the impact the TCJA may have on our business. We will evaluate the effect of the TCJA on our net operating losses and our projection of taxes. As a result of the passage of the TJCA, corporate tax rates in the United States will decrease in 2018, which resulted in the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets at the new statutory rate and a reduction in the value of our deferred tax assets in 2017.. The TCJA is a far-reaching and complex revision to the U.S. federal income tax laws with disparate and, in some cases, countervailing impacts on different categories of taxpayers and industries,. 18. Table of Contents. and will require subsequent rulemaking and interpretation in a number of areas. The long-term impact of the TCJA on the overall economy, the industries in which we operate and our and our partners business cannot be reliably predicted at this early stage of the new law's implementation. There can be no assurance that the TCJA will not negatively impact our operating results, financial condition, and future business operations. The estimated impact of the TCJA is based on our management's current knowledge and assumptions, following consultation with our tax advisors, and recognized impacts could be materially different from current estimates based on our actual results and our further analysis of the new law. The impact of the TCJA on holders of common stock is uncertain and could be materially adverse. This Annual Report does not discuss any such tax legislation or the manner in which it might affect investors in common stock. Investors should consult with their own tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in common stock.. We may not be able to utilize all of our net operating loss carryforwards.. We have net operating loss carryforwards and other significant U.S. tax attributes that we believe could offset otherwise taxable income in the U.S. As a part of the overall Spin-Off transaction, the transfer of certain assets by us to Theravance Biopharma and our distribution of Theravance Biopharma ordinary shares resulted in taxable transfers pursuant to applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\") and Treasury Regulations. The taxable gain recognized by us attributable to the transfer of certain assets to Theravance Biopharma will generally equal the excess of the fair market value of each asset transferred over our adjusted tax basis in such asset. Although we will not recognize any gain with respect to the cash we transferred to Theravance Biopharma, we may recognize substantial gain based on the fair market value of the other assets (other than cash) transferred to Theravance Biopharma. The determination of the fair market value of these assets is subjective and could be subject to adjustments or future challenge by the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\"), which could result in an increase in the amount of gain realized by us as a result of the transfer. Our U.S. federal income tax resulting from any gain recognized upon the transfer of our assets to Theravance Biopharma (including any increased U.S. federal income tax that may result from a subsequent determination of higher fair market values for the transferred assets), may be reduced by our net operating loss carryforward. The net operating loss carryforwards available in any year to offset our net taxable income will be reduced following a more than 50% change in ownership during any period of 36 consecutive months (an \"ownership change\") as determined under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the \"Code\"). Transactions involving our common stock, even those outside our control, such as purchases or sales by investors, within the testing period could result in an ownership change. We have conducted an analysis to determine whether an ownership change had occurred since inception through December 31, 2016, and concluded that we had undergone two ownership changes in prior years. Subsequent changes in our ownership or sale of our stock could have the effect of limiting the use of our net operating losses in the future. We have approximately $1.0 billion of net operating loss carryforward as of December 31, 2017. There may be certain annual limitations for utilization based on the above-described ownership change provisions. In addition, we may not be able to have sufficient future taxable income prior to their expiration because net operating losses have carryforward periods. As a result of the passage of the Tax Cuts and Job Act, corporate tax rates in the United States will decrease in 2018, resulted in the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets at the new statutory rate and a reduction in the value of our deferred tax assets in 2017. Future changes in federal and state tax laws pertaining to net operating loss carryforwards may also cause limitations or restrictions from us claiming such net operating losses. If the net operating loss carryforwards become unavailable to us or are fully utilized, our future taxable income will not be shielded from federal and state income taxation absent certain U.S. federal and state tax credits, and the funds otherwise available for general corporate purposes would be reduced.. 19. Table of Contents. If any product candidates in any respiratory program partnered with GSK are not approved by regulatory authorities or are determined to be unsafe or ineffective in humans, our business will be adversely affected and the price of our securities could fall.. The FDA must approve any new medicine before it can be marketed and sold in the U.S. Our partner GSK must provide the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities with data from preclinical and clinical studies that demonstrate that the product candidates are safe and effective for a defined indication before they can be approved for commercial distribution. GSK will not obtain this approval for a partnered product candidate unless and until the FDA approves a NDA. The processes by which regulatory approvals are obtained from the FDA to market and sell a new product are complex, require a number of years and involve the expenditure of substantial resources. In order to market medicines in foreign countries, separate regulatory approvals must be obtained in each country. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. Conversely, failure to obtain approval in one or more country may make approval in other countries more difficult.. Clinical studies involving product candidates partnered with GSK may reveal that those candidates are ineffective, inferior to existing approved medicines, unacceptably toxic, or that they have other unacceptable side effects. In addition, the results of preclinical studies do not necessarily predict clinical success, and larger and later-stage clinical studies may not produce the same results as earlier-stage clinical studies.. Frequently, product candidates that have shown promising results in early preclinical or clinical studies have subsequently suffered significant setbacks or failed in later clinical or non-clinical studies. In addition, clinical and non-clinical studies of potential products often reveal that it is not possible or practical to continue development efforts for these product candidates. If these studies are substantially delayed or fail to prove the safety and effectiveness of product candidates in development partnered with GSK, GSK may not receive regulatory approval for such product candidates and our business and financial condition will be materially harmed and the price of our securities may fall.. Several well-publicized Complete Response letters issued by the FDA and safety-related product withdrawals, suspensions, post-approval labeling revisions to include boxed warnings and changes in approved indications over the last several years, as well as growing public and governmental scrutiny of safety issues, have created a conservative regulatory environment. The implementation of new laws and regulations and revisions to FDA clinical trial design guidance have increased uncertainty regarding the approvability of a new drug. Further, there are additional requirements for approval of new drugs, including advisory committee meetings for new chemical entities, and formal risk evaluation and mitigation strategy at the FDA's discretion. These laws, regulations, additional requirements and changes in interpretation could cause non-approval or further delays in the FDA's review and approval of any product candidates in any respiratory program partnered with GSK.. Even if product candidates in any respiratory program partnered with GSK receive regulatory approval, as is the case with RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA®, ANORO® ELLIPTA® and TRELEGY® ELLIPTA®, commercialization of such products may be adversely affected by regulatory actions and oversight.. Even if GSK receives regulatory approval for product candidates in any respiratory program partnered with GSK, this approval may include limitations on the indicated uses for which GSK can market the medicines or the patient population that may utilize the medicines, which may limit the market for the medicines or put GSK at a competitive disadvantage relative to alternative therapies. These restrictions make it more difficult to market the approved products.. 20. Table of Contents. For example, at the joint meeting of the Pulmonary-Allergy Drugs Advisory Committee and Drug Safety and Risk Management Advisory Committee of the FDA regarding the sNDA for BREO® ELLIPTA® as a treatment for asthma, the advisory committee recommended that a large LABA safety trial with BREO® ELLIPTA® should be required in adults and in 12-17 year olds, similar to the ongoing LABA safety trials being conducted as an FDA Post-Marketing Requirement by each of the manufacturers of LABA containing asthma treatments.. In addition, the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for the approved product remain subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. If we or GSK become aware of previously unknown problems with an approved product in the U.S. or overseas or at contract manufacturers' facilities, a regulatory authority may impose restrictions on the product, the contract manufacturers or on GSK, including requiring it to reformulate the product, conduct additional clinical studies, change the labeling of the product, withdraw the product from the market or require the contract manufacturer to implement changes to its facilities. GSK is also subject to regulation by regional, national, state and local agencies, including the Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and other regulatory bodies as well as governmental authorities in those foreign countries in which any of the product candidates in any respiratory program partnered with GSK are approved for commercialization. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern to varying degrees the research, development, manufacturing and commercial activities relating to prescription pharmaceutical products, including non-clinical and clinical testing, approval, production, labeling, sale, distribution, import, export, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information and promotion. Any failure to maintain regulatory approval will limit GSK's ability to commercialize the product candidates in any respiratory program partnered with GSK, which would materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition and which may cause the price of our securities to fall.. We may not be successful in our efforts to expand our portfolio of royalty generating products.. In the future, we may choose to acquire interests in or rights to one or more additional royalty generating products. However, we may be unable to license or acquire rights to suitable royalty generating products for a number of reasons. In particular, the licensing and acquisition of pharmaceutical product rights is a competitive area. Several more established companies are also pursuing strategies to license or acquire rights to royalty generating products. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us. Other factors that may prevent us from licensing or otherwise acquiring rights to suitable royalty generating products include the following:. <U+0095> we may be unable to license or acquire the rights on terms that would allow us to make an appropriate return from the product;     <U+0095> companies that perceive us to be their competitors may be unwilling to assign or license their product rights to us; or     <U+0095> we may be unable to identify suitable royalty generating products.. If we are unable to acquire or license rights to suitable royalty generating product candidates, our business may suffer.. We are engaged in a continual review of opportunities to acquire income generating assets, whether royalty-based or otherwise, or to acquire companies that hold royalty or other income generating assets. We currently, and generally at any time, have acquisition opportunities in various stages of active review, including, for example, our engagement of consultants and advisors to analyze particular opportunities, technical, financial and other confidential information, submission of. 21. Table of Contents. indications of interest and involvement as a bidder in competitive auctions or other processes for the acquisition of income generating assets. Many potential acquisition targets do not meet our criteria, and for those that do, we may face significant competition for these acquisitions from other financial investors and enterprises whose cost of capital may be lower than ours. Competition for future asset acquisition opportunities in our markets is competitive and we may be forced to increase the price we pay for such assets or face reduced potential acquisition opportunities. The success of any future income generating asset acquisitions is based on our ability to make accurate assumptions regarding the valuation, timing and amount of payments, which is highly complex and uncertain. The failure of any of these acquisitions to produce anticipated revenues may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We have a significant amount of debt including Term Loans, Convertible Subordinated Notes and Convertible Senior Notes that are senior in capital structure and cash flow, respectively, to our common stockholders. Satisfying the obligations relating to our debt could adversely affect the amount or timing of distributions to our stockholders.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $677.2 million in total debt outstanding, comprised primarily of, $243.7 million in principal outstanding on our term B loan (the \"Term B Loan\"), $241.0 million in principal that remains outstanding under our convertible subordinated notes, due 2023 (the \"2023 Notes\") and $192.5 million in principal outstanding under our convertible senior notes due 2025 (the \"2025 Notes\") (the 2023 Notes and 2025 Notes hereinafter, the \"Notes\"). The Notes are unsecured debt and are not redeemable by us prior to the maturity date. Holders of the Notes may require us to purchase all or any portion of their Notes at 100% of their principal amount, plus any unpaid interest, upon a fundamental change. A fundamental change is generally defined to include a merger involving us, an acquisition of a majority of our outstanding common stock, and, under the 2023 Notes, the change of a majority of our board without the approval of the board. In addition, to the extent we pursue and complete a monetization transaction or a transaction that modifies our corporate structure, the structure of such transaction may qualify as a fundamental change under the Notes, which could trigger the put rights of the holders of the Notes, in which case we would be required to use a portion of the net proceeds from such transaction to repurchase any Notes put to us.. Our Term B Loan is secured by a lien on substantially all of our and the guarantors' personal property and material real property assets (if any). If we default under the terms of the Term B Loan, the lenders may accelerate all of our repayment obligations and take control of our pledged assets, potentially requiring us to renegotiate our agreement on terms less favorable to us or to immediately cease operations. Further, if we are liquidated, the lenders' right to repayment would be senior to the rights of the holders of our common stock. The lenders could declare a default upon the occurrence of any event that they interpret as a material adverse effect as defined under the Term B Loan agreement. Any declaration by the lenders of an event of default could significantly harm our business and prospects and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. If we raise any additional debt financing, the terms of such additional debt could further restrict our operating and financial flexibility.. Satisfying the obligations of this debt could adversely affect the amount or timing of any distributions to our stockholders. We may choose to satisfy repurchase, or refinance this debt through public or private equity or debt financings if we deem such financings available on favorable terms. If any or all of the Notes are not converted into shares of our common stock before the maturity date, we will have to pay the holders the full aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding. Any of the above payments could have a material adverse effect on our cash position. If we fail to satisfy these obligations, it may result in a default under the indenture, which could result in a default under certain of our other debt instruments, if any. Any such default would harm our business and the price of our securities could fall.. 22. Table of Contents. If we lose key management personnel, or if we fail to retain our key employees, our ability to manage our business will be impaired.. We have a small management team and very few employees. We are highly dependent on principal members of our management team and a small group of key employees to operate our business. In February 2018, we announced the resignation of our chief executive officer. The Board of Directors plans to commence a search to identify and hire a new chief executive officer. Our company is located in northern California, which is headquarters to many other biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies and many academic and research institutions. As a result, competition for certain skilled personnel in our market remains intense. None of our employees have employment commitments for any fixed period of time and they all may leave our employment at will. In April 2017, we announced that our Board of Directors had determined to undertake a comprehensive review of all of our costs, including executive compensation structures. The result of this review has led us to make changes to our compensation structure. If we fail to hire a qualified chief executive officer or retain our qualified personnel or replace them when they leave, we may be unable to successfully continue our business operations or grow our business, which may cause the price of our securities to fall.. We rely and will continue to rely on outsourcing arrangements for many of our activities, including financial reporting and accounting and human resources.. As of December 31, 2017, we had only 12 employees and, as a result, we rely, and expect to continue to rely, on outsourcing arrangements for a significant portion of our activities, including financial reporting and accounting and human resources, as well as for certain functions as a public company. We may have limited control over these third parties and we cannot guarantee that they will perform their obligations in an effective and timely manner.. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting or if the interpretations, estimates or judgments utilized in preparing our financial statements prove to be incorrect, our operating results and our ability to operate our business could be harmed.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Under the SEC's current rules, we are required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our independent registered public accounting firm is also required to report on our internal control over financial reporting. Our testing and our independent registered public accounting firm's testing may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses and render our internal control over financial reporting ineffective. We have and expect to continue to incur substantial accounting and auditing expense and to expend significant management time in complying with the requirements of Section 404. In February 2018, we announced the resignation of our Chief Executive Officer, which reduced our already small employee base and resulted in our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer assuming the duties of interim Principal Executive Officer. Having many of the key responsibilities of our business assigned to one individual, our interim Principal Executive Officer, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, may make it difficult in the future to maintain appropriate segregation of duties in the initiating and recording of transactions, which may exacerbate the risk of a material misstatement or lack of disclosure within the annual or interim financial statements not being prevented or detected. To address this lack of segregation of duties, we have implemented additional oversight procedures and compensating controls with the goal of mitigating this risk and, although we plan to continue to monitor this matter, we currently do not believe that this lack of segregation of duties will have an adverse affect on our internal controls. If we are not able to maintain compliance with the. 23. Table of Contents. requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to investigations or sanctions by the SEC, FINRA, Nasdaq or other regulatory authorities. In addition, we could be required to expend significant management time and financial resources to correct any material weaknesses that may be identified or to respond to any regulatory investigations or proceedings.. We are also subject to complex tax laws, regulations, accounting principles and interpretations thereof. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to interpret accounting principles and guidance and make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our interpretations, estimates and judgments are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for the preparation of our financial statements. GAAP presentation is subject to interpretation by the SEC and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles and guidance. In the event that one of these bodies disagrees with our accounting recognition, measurement or disclosure or any of our accounting interpretations, estimates or assumptions, it may have a significant effect on our reported results and may retroactively affect previously reported results. The need to restate our financial results could, among other potential adverse effects, result in us incurring substantial costs, affect our ability to timely file our periodic reports until such restatement is completed, divert the attention of our management and employees from managing our business, result in material changes to our historical and future financial results, result in investors losing confidence in our operating results, subject us to securities class action litigation, and cause our stock price to decline.. As we continue to develop our business, our mix of assets and our sources of income may require that we register with the SEC as an \"investment company\" in accordance with the Investment Company Act of 1940.. We have not been and have no current intention to register as an \"investment company\" under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the 40 Act, because we believe the nature of our assets and the sources of our income currently exclude us from the definition of an investment company pursuant to Sections (3)(a)(1)(A), (3)(a)(1)(C) under the 40 Act and Rule 270.3a-1 of Title 17 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Accordingly, we are not currently subject to the provisions of the 40 Act, such as compliance with the 40 Act's registration and reporting requirements, capital structure requirements, affiliate transaction restrictions, conflict of interest rules, requirements for disinterested directors, and other substantive provisions. Generally, to avoid being a company that is an \"investment company\" under the 40 Act, it must both: (a) not be or hold itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities, and (b) either (i) not be engaged or propose to engage in the business of investing in securities or own or propose to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis or (ii) not have more than 45% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of Government securities and cash items) consist of or more than 45% of its net income after taxes (for the last four fiscal quarters combined) be derived from securities. In addition, we would not be an \"investment company\" if an exception, exemption, or safe harbor under the 40 Act applies.. We monitor our assets and income for compliance with the tests under the 40 Act and seek to conduct our business activities to ensure that we do not fall within its definitions of \"investment company.\" If we were to become an \"investment company\" and be subject to the strictures of the 40 Act, the restrictions imposed by the 40 Act would likely require changes in the way we do business and add significant administrative burdens to our operations. In order to ensure that we do not fall. 24. Table of Contents. within the 40 Act, we may need to take various actions which we might otherwise not pursue. These actions may include restructuring the Company and/or modifying our mixture of assets and income.. Specifically, our mixture of debt vs. royalty assets is important to our classification as an \"investment company\" or not. In this regard, while we currently believe that none of the definitions of \"investment company\" apply to us, we may in the future rely on an exception under the 40 Act provided by Section 3(c)(5)(A). To qualify for Section 3(c)(5)(A), as interpreted by the staff of the SEC, we would be required to have at least 55% of our total assets in \"notes, drafts, acceptances, open accounts receivable, and other obligations representing part or all of the sales price of merchandise, insurance, and services\" (or Qualifying Assets). In a no-action letter issued to Royalty Pharma on August 13, 2010, the staff stated that royalty interests are Qualifying Assets under this exception. If the SEC or its staff in the future adopts a contrary interpretation or otherwise restricts the conclusions in the staff's no-action letter such that our royalty interests are no longer Qualifying Assets for purposes of Section 3(c)(5)(A), we could be required to register under the 40 Act.. The rules and interpretations of the SEC and the courts, relating to the definition of \"investment company\" are highly complex in numerous respects. While we currently intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed an investment company, we can give no assurances that we will not determine it to be in the Company's and our stockholders' interest to register as an \"investment company\", not be deemed an \"investment company\" and not be required to register under the 40 Act.. Prolonged economic uncertainties or downturns, as well as unstable market, credit and financial conditions, may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business and have serious adverse consequences on our business.. The global economic downturn and market instability has made the business climate more volatile and more costly. These economic conditions, and uncertainty as to the general direction of the macroeconomic environment, are beyond our control and may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. While we believe we have adequate capital resources to meet current working capital and capital expenditure requirements, a lingering economic downturn or significant increase in our expenses could require additional financing on less than attractive rates or on terms that are excessively dilutive to existing stockholders. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and could require us to delay or abandon clinical development plans.. Sales of our partnered products will be dependent, in large part, on reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, distribution partners and other organizations. As a result of negative trends in the general economy in the U.S. or other jurisdictions in which we may do business, these organizations may be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations or may delay payment. In addition, federal and state health authorities may reduce Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements, and private insurers may increase their scrutiny of claims. A reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement could negatively affect our or our partners' product sales and revenue.. In addition, we rely on third parties for several important aspects of our business. During challenging and uncertain economic times and in tight credit markets, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third party contractors, suppliers or partners. If such third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected.. 25. Table of Contents. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist stockholders, including future proxy contests.. Proxy contests have been waged against many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry over the last several years. We have been the subject of actions taken by activist stockholders. For instance, Sarissa Capital Domestic Fund LP and certain of its affiliates (together, \"Sarissa\") nominated three directors for election to our Board of Directors at our 2017 Annual Meeting. Another proxy contest or an activist campaign launched by activist stockholder(s) would require us to incur significant professional fees (including, but not limited to, legal fees, fees for financial advisors, fees for investor relations advisors, and proxy solicitation expenses) and the time-consuming nature of our response to any such activity may significantly divert the attention of management, the Board of Directors and our employees. Further, any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction and control resulting from any proxy contest or similar actions by activist stockholders could result in the loss of potential business opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Even if we are successful in any proxy contest, our business could be adversely affected by any such proxy contest because:. <U+0095> responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist stockholders can be costly (resulting in significant professional fees and proxy solicitation expenses) and time-consuming, disrupting operations and diverting the attention of our Board of Directors, management and employees;    <U+0095> perceived uncertainties as to future direction may result in the loss of potential acquisitions, collaborations or other strategic opportunities, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners;    <U+0095> if individuals are elected or appointed to our Board of Directors with a specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic plan and create additional value for our stockholders; and    <U+0095> if individuals are elected or appointed to our Board of Directors who do not agree with our strategic plan, the ability of our Board of Directors to function effectively could be adversely affected, which could in turn adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Uncertainties related to, or the results of, such actions could cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility.. In addition, under certain circumstances arising out of or related to a proxy contest or threatened proxy contest or the nomination of directors by an activist stockholder, a change in the composition of a majority of our Board of Directors may (1) trigger the requirement that we make an offer to repurchase all of our outstanding 2023 Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal and unpaid interest on such Notes, (2) constitute a change in control under the terms of our severance plans, which provide for payment of severance if a covered executive officer is subject to an involuntary termination within 3 months prior to or 24 months after a change in control of the Company and (3) constitute a change in control under the terms of certain of the Company's equity award grants and equity plans for its employees, and depending on the terms of the award or plan, may result in the accelerated vesting of such award. In the event we were required to offer to repurchase all of the 2023 Notes, which as of December 31, 2017 had an aggregate outstanding principal of approximately $241.0 million, we would be required to obtain additional financing. As of December 31, 2017, we had cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $129.1 million. We cannot assure stockholders that we would be able to timely obtain such financing on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or equity-linked securities, the issuance of those securities could result in substantial dilution for our current stockholders and the terms may. 26. Table of Contents. include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our current stockholders. Furthermore, the issuance of additional securities, whether equity or debt, by us, or the possibility of such issuance, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline and existing stockholders may not agree with our financing plans or the terms of such financings. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with partners or otherwise that may require us to relinquish rights to our intellectual property, our product candidates or otherwise agree to terms unfavorable to us. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could materially adversely affect our business.. We cannot predict, and no assurances can be given as to, the outcome or timing of any matters relating to actions by activist stockholders or the ultimate impact on our business, liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.. We have incurred litigation and may incur additional litigation.. We have been subject to various legal proceedings, and, in the future, we may be exposed to, or threatened with, litigation, claims and proceedings incident to the ordinary course of, or otherwise in connection with, our business. In addition, agreements entered into by us sometimes include indemnification provisions which may subject us to costs and damages in the event of a claim against an indemnified third party.. For instance, in March 2017, Sarissa filed a complaint in the Delaware Court of Chancery (the \"Court\"), demanding that we provide books and records pursuant to Section 220 of the DGCL (the \"220 Litigation\") and in April 2017, several Sarissa entities filed a complaint for specific performance alleging that it had entered into a binding agreement to settle its proxy contest in exchange for the inclusion of each of George W. Bickerstaff, III and Odysseas Kostas, M.D. on our Board of Directors (the \"Specific Performance Litigation\"). Following trial, in December 2017, the Court issued a final judgement in favor of Sarissa. In the Specific Performance Litigation, we expanded our Board of Directors from six to eight members and added Dr. Kostas and Mr. Bickerstaff as directors and Sarissa dismissed the 220 Litigation.. Sarissa, or others, could decide to bring additional litigation against us and/or against directors and officers whom we are obliged to indemnify and defend. Separately, we may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation, claims and proceedings incident to the ordinary course of, or otherwise in connection with, our business.. Regardless of the merit of particular claims, litigation may be expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to our operations and distracting to management. In recognition of these considerations, we may enter into agreements or other arrangements to settle litigation and resolve such disputes. No assurance can be given that such agreements can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. These agreements may also significantly increase our operating expenses.. If one or more legal matters were resolved against us or an indemnified third party in a reporting period for amounts in excess of management's expectations, our consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected. Further, such an outcome could result in significant compensatory, punitive or trebled monetary damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief against us that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. While we maintain insurance coverage for certain types of claims, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise.. 27. Table of Contents. We have determined to undertake a comprehensive review of our costs, including our executive compensation structure, which review may not result in meaningful cost savings, may have unintended consequences and could negatively impact our business.. In April 2017, we announced that our Board of Directors had determined to undertake a fresh, comprehensive review of all of our costs, including executive compensation structures, with the goal that this review would result in meaningful savings in our core operating costs that will benefit our financial performance. In October 2017, we announced that a special committee of our independent directors and the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors completed a comprehensive review of our spending, including executive and board compensation structures, outside services, travel and entertainment and other expenses. The Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors and the full Board also reviewed and made certain changes to executive and board compensation plans. While our cost reduction efforts are expected to reduce our operating costs, we cannot be certain that such efforts will be successful. There can be no assurances that any meaningful cost savings will correlate with an increase in the price of our common stock.. Future cost reduction efforts may result in the elimination of certain functional areas and/or reductions of our business operations, including the recently announced management changes, which may limit our ability to effectively manage and grow our business and which could result in the potential decrease in our royalty revenues. It is likely that we will incur short-term costs to implement any longer-term expense reduction initiatives. In addition, in the event that the aggregate amount of cost reductions implemented as a result of our review, if any, do not meet investor or analyst expectations, the price of our common stock could be adversely affected.. Risks Related to our Alliance with GSK. Because all our current and projected revenues are derived from products under the GSK Agreements, disputes with GSK could harm our business and cause the price of our securities to fall.. All of our current and projected revenues are derived from products under the GSK Agreements. Any action or inaction by either GSK or us that results in a material dispute, allegation of breach, litigation, arbitration, or significant disagreement between the parties may be interpreted negatively by the market or by our investors, could harm our business and cause the price of our securities to fall. Examples of these kinds of issues include but are not limited to non-performance of contractual obligations and allegations of non-performance, disagreements over the relative marketing and sales efforts for our partnered products and other GSK respiratory products, disputes over public statements, and similar matters. In addition, while we obtained GSK's consent to the Spin-Off as structured, GSK could decide to challenge various aspects of our post-Spin-Off operation of TRC, the limited liability company jointly owned by us and Theravance Biopharma as violating or allowing it to terminate the GSK Agreements. Although we believe our operation of TRC fully complies with the GSK Agreements and applicable law, there can be no assurance that we would prevail against any such claims by GSK. Moreover, regardless of the merit of any claims by GSK, we may incur significant cost and diversion of resources in defending them. In addition, any market or investor uncertainty about the respiratory programs partnered with GSK or the enforceability of the GSK Agreements could result in significant reduction in the market price of our securities and other material harm to our business.. Because GSK is a strategic partner as well as a significant stockholder, it may take actions that in certain cases are materially harmful to both our business or to our other stockholders.. Although GSK beneficially owns approximately 31.4% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017, it is also a strategic partner with rights and obligations under the GSK Agreements that cause its interests to differ from the interests of us and our other stockholders. In particular, GSK has a substantial respiratory product portfolio in addition to the partnered products that are covered by. 28. Table of Contents. the GSK Agreements. GSK may make respiratory product portfolio decisions or statements about its portfolio which may be, or may be perceived to be, harmful to the respiratory products partnered with us. For example, GSK could promote its non-GSK/Innoviva respiratory products or a partnered product for which we are entitled to receive a lower percentage of royalties, delay or terminate the development or commercialization of the respiratory programs covered by the GSK Agreements, or take other actions, such as making public statements, that have a negative effect on our stock price. In this regard and by way of example, sales of Advair®, GSK's approved medicine for both COPD and asthma, continue to be significantly greater than sales of RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA®, and GSK has indicated publicly that it intends to continue commercializing Advair®. Also, given the potential future royalty payments GSK may be obligated to pay under the GSK Agreements, GSK may seek to acquire us to reduce those payment obligations. The timing of when GSK may seek to acquire us could potentially be when it possesses information regarding the status of drug programs covered by the GSK Agreements that has not been publicly disclosed and is not otherwise known to us. As a result of these differing interests, GSK may take actions that it believes are in its best interest but which might not be in the best interests of either us or our other stockholders. In addition, following the FDA regulatory approval of TRELEGY® ELLIPTA® in September 2017, GSK's diligent efforts obligations as to commercialization matters under the GSK Agreements has the objective of focusing on the best interests of patients and maximizing the net value of the overall portfolio of products under the GSK Agreements. Since GSK's commercialization efforts following this regulatory approval is guided by a portfolio approach across products in which we have retained our full interest and also products in which we now have only a portion of our former interest, GSK's commercialization efforts may have the effect of reducing the overall value of our remaining interests in the products covered by the GSK Agreements in the future. In addition, following the expiration of our governance agreement with GSK in September 2015, GSK is no longer subject to the restrictions thereunder regarding the voting of the shares of our common stock owned by it.. GSK's diligent efforts obligations as to commercialization matters under the GSK Agreements has the objective of focusing on the best interests of patients and maximizing the net value of the overall portfolio of products under the GSK Agreements, which may be harmful to both our business and our stockholders.. Following the FDA approval of TRELEGY® ELLIPTA® in September 2017, GSK's diligent efforts obligations as to commercialization matters under the GSK Agreements has the objective of focusing on the best interests of patients and maximizing the net value of the overall portfolio of products under the GSK Agreements. As such, GSK may prioritize TRELEGY® ELLIPTA®, and if GSK and the respiratory market in general view this triple combination therapy as significantly more beneficial than existing therapies, including RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® and ANORO® ELLIPTA®, this may be harmful to our business, operations and stock price. If GSK prioritizes TRELEGY® ELLIPTA®, we will only be entitled to a 15% economic interest of the royalties paid pursuant to the commercialization of our partnered products or chooses to reprioritize its commercial programs, our businesses, operations and stock price would be negatively affected.. GSK has also indicated to us that it believes its consent may be required before we can engage in certain royalty monetization transactions with third parties, which may inhibit our ability to engage in these transactions.. In the course of our discussions with GSK concerning the Spin-Off of Theravance Biopharma, GSK indicated to us that it believes that its consent may be required before we can engage in certain transactions designed to monetize the future value of royalties that may be payable to us from GSK under the GSK Agreements. GSK has informed us that it believes that there may be certain covenants included in these types of transactions that might violate certain provisions of the GSK Agreements. Although we believe that we can structure royalty monetization transactions in a manner that fully complies with the requirements of the GSK Agreements without GSK's consent, a third party in a. 29. Table of Contents. proposed monetization transaction may nonetheless insist that we obtain GSK's consent for the transaction or re-structure the transaction on less favorable terms. We have obtained GSK's agreement that (i) we may grant certain pre-agreed covenants in connection with monetization of our interests in RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA®, ANORO® ELLIPTA® and vilanterol monotherapy and portions of our interests in TRC, and (ii) it will not unreasonably withhold its consent to our requests to grant other covenants, provided, among other conditions, that in each case, the covenants are not granted in favor of pharmaceutical or biotechnology company with a product either being developed or commercialized for the treatment of respiratory disease. If we seek GSK's consent to grant covenants other than pre-agreed covenants, we may not be able to obtain GSK's consent on reasonable terms, or at all. If we proceed with a royalty monetization transaction that is not otherwise covered by the GSK Agreement without GSK's consent, GSK could request that its consent be obtained or seek to enjoin or otherwise challenge the transaction as violating or allowing it to terminate the GSK Agreements. Regardless of the merit of any claims by GSK, we would incur significant cost and diversion of resources in defending against GSK's claims or asserting our own claims and GSK may seek concessions from us in order to provide its consent. Any uncertainty about whether or when we could engage in a royalty monetization transaction, the potential impact on the enforceability of the GSK Agreements or the loss of potential royalties from the respiratory programs partnered with GSK, could impair our ability to pursue a return of capital strategy for our stockholders ahead of our receipt of significant royalties from GSK, result in significant reduction in the market price of our securities and cause other material harm to our business.. GSK's ownership of a significant percentage of our stock and its ability to acquire additional shares of our stock may create conflicts of interest, and may inhibit our management's ability to continue to operate our business in the manner in which it is currently being operated.. As of December 31, 2017, GSK beneficially owned approximately 31.4% of our outstanding common stock. As such, GSK could have substantial influence in the election of our directors, delay or prevent a transaction in which stockholders might receive a premium over the prevailing market price for their shares and have significant control over certain changes in our business. The procedures previously governing and restricting GSK offers to our stockholders to acquire outstanding voting stock and the restrictions regarding the voting of shares of our common stock owned by it terminated upon the expiration of the governance agreement in September 2015. Further, pursuant to our Certificate of Incorporation, we renounce our interest in and waive any claim that a corporate or business opportunity taken by GSK constitutes a corporate opportunity of ours unless such corporate or business opportunity is expressly offered to one of our directors who is a director, officer or employee of GSK, primarily in his or her capacity as one of our directors.. GSK's significant ownership position may deter or prevent efforts by other companies to acquire us, which could prevent our stockholders from realizing a control premium.. As of December 31, 2017, GSK beneficially owned approximately 31.4% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of GSK's significant ownership, other companies may be less inclined to pursue an acquisition of us and therefore we may not have the opportunity to be acquired in a transaction that stockholders might otherwise deem favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might realize a substantial premium for their shares.. GSK could sell or transfer a substantial number of shares of our common stock, which could depress the price of our securities or result in a change in control of our company.. GSK is not subject to any contractual restrictions with us on its ability to sell or transfer our common stock on the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, and these sales or transfers could create substantial declines in the price of our securities or, if these sales or transfers. 30. Table of Contents. were made to a single buyer or group of buyers, could contribute to a transfer of control of our company to a third party. Sales by GSK of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation of such sales, could cause a significant reduction in the market price of our common stock.. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Uncertainty. If our trademarks and trade names are not adequately protected, then we may not be able to build name recognition in our markets of interest and our business may be adversely affected.. Our registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names may be challenged, infringed, circumvented, declared generic or determined to be infringing on other marks. We may not be able to protect our rights to these trademarks and trade names, which are necessary to build name and brand recognition among potential partners or customers in our markets of interest. At times, competitors may adopt trademarks or trade names similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build name and brand identity and possibly leading to market confusion. In addition, there could be potential trademark or trade name infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of our registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names. There was also a risk that if there is confusion in the marketplace, the reputation, performance and/or actions of such third parties may negatively impact our stock price and our business. We therefore have, as of January 2016, adopted a new brand, Innoviva. Over the long term, if we are unable to establish name and brand recognition based on our trademarks and trade names, then we may not be able to compete effectively and our business may be adversely affected. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand successfully, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, our business may be harmed.. If the efforts of our partner, GSK, to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to products in any respiratory program partnered with GSK are not adequate, the future commercialization of any such product could be delayed, limited or prevented, which would materially harm our business and the price of our securities could fall.. To the extent the intellectual property protection of products in any respiratory program partnered with GSK are successfully challenged or encounter problems with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other comparable agencies throughout the world, the commercialization of these products could be delayed, limited or prevented. Any challenge to the intellectual property protection of a late-stage development asset or approved product arising from any respiratory program partnered with GSK could harm our business and cause the price of our securities to fall.. Our commercial success depends in part on products in any respiratory program partnered with GSK not infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert that these products are using their proprietary rights without authorization. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of GSK's technologies infringes upon these patents. Furthermore, parties making claims against GSK may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block GSK's ability to further develop or commercialize one or more of the product candidates or products in any respiratory program partnered with GSK.. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against GSK, it may have to pay substantial damages, obtain one or more licenses from third parties or pay royalties. In addition, even in the absence of litigation, GSK may need to obtain licenses from third parties to advance its research or allow commercialization of the products. GSK may fail to obtain any of these licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, GSK would be unable to further develop and commercialize one or more of the products, which could harm our business significantly. In addition, in the future GSK could be required to initiate litigation to enforce its proprietary rights against infringement by third parties. Prosecution of these claims to enforce its rights against others would involve substantial litigation expenses. If GSK fails to effectively enforce its proprietary rights related to our partnered respiratory programs against others, our business will be harmed, and the price of our securities could fall.. 31. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock. The price of our securities has been volatile and may continue to be so, and purchasers of our securities could incur substantial losses.. The price of our securities has been volatile and may continue to be so. Between January 1, 2017 and December 31, 2017, the high and low sales prices of our common stock as reported on The Nasdaq Global Select Market varied between $10.30 and $14.87 per share. The stock market in general and the market for biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the companies' operating performance, in particular during the last several years. The following factors, in addition to the other risk factors described in this section, may also have a significant impact on the market price of our securities:. <U+0095> any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to the commercialization of RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® and ANORO® ELLIPTA® with GSK, including, without limitation, if payor coverage is lower than anticipated or if sales of RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® and ANORO® ELLIPTA® are less than anticipated because of pricing pressure in the respiratory markets targeted by our partnered products or existing or future competition in the markets in which they are commercialized, including competition from existing and new products that are perceived as lower cost or more effective, and our royalty payments are less than anticipated;    <U+0095> any positive developments or results or perceived positive developments or results with respect to the commercialization of TRELEGY® ELLIPTA® with GSK, including, if GSK and the respiratory market in general view this triple combination therapy as significantly more beneficial than existing therapies, including RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® and ANORO® ELLIPTA®;    <U+0095> any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to the on-going development of FF/VI with GSK, including, without limitation, any difficulties or delays encountered with the regulatory path for FF/VI or any indication from clinical or non-clinical studies, including the large Phase 3b program, that FF/VI is not safe or efficacious or does not sufficiently differentiate itself from alternative therapies;    <U+0095> any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to the on-going development of UMEC/VI with GSK, including, without limitation, any difficulties or delays encountered with regard to the regulatory path for UMEC/VI, any indication from clinical or non-clinical studies that UMEC/VI is not safe or efficacious;    <U+0095> any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments in the field of LABAs, including any change in FDA (or comparable foreign regulatory authority) policy or guidance (such as the pronouncement in February 2010 warning that LABAs should not be used alone in the treatment of asthma and related labeling requirements, the impact of the March 2010 FDA Advisory Committee discussing LABA clinical trial design to evaluate serious asthma outcomes or the FDA's April 2011 announcement that manufacturers of currently marketed LABAs conduct additional clinical studies comparing the addition of LABAs to inhaled corticosteroids versus inhaled corticosteroids alone);    <U+0095> GSK reprioritizing its development or commercial efforts on other products, including TRELEGY® ELLIPTA® or products owned by GSK (such as Advair®) but which are not partnered with us;    <U+0095> the occurrence of a fundamental change triggering a put right of the holders of the Notes or our inability, or perceived inability, to satisfy the obligations under the Notes when they become due;    <U+0095> our incurrence of expenses in any particular quarter that are different than market expectations;. 32. Table of Contents. <U+0095> announcements regarding the cost review undertaken by our Board of Directors and the implementation of any cost-saving measures resulting from such review;    <U+0095> changes in the treatment paradigm or standards of care for COPD or asthma;    <U+0095> the extent to which GSK advances (or does not advance) FF/VI, UMEC/VI and TRELEGY® ELLIPTA®, through commercialization in all indications in all major markets;    <U+0095> any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to our relationship with GSK, including, without limitation, disagreements that may arise between us and GSK;    <U+0095> decisions by GSK with respect to the MABA program;    <U+0095> announcements by or regarding GSK generally;    <U+0095> announcements of patent issuances or denials, technological innovations or new commercial products by GSK;     <U+0095> publicity regarding actual or potential study results or the outcome of regulatory review relating to products under development by GSK;     <U+0095> regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries, including recent tax reform and the possibility that the current presidential administration and the U.S. Congress may replace PPACA and related legislation with new healthcare legislation;    <U+0095> economic and other external factors beyond our control;    <U+0095> sales of stock by us or by our stockholders, including sales by certain of our employees and directors whether or not pursuant to selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended;    <U+0095> relative illiquidity in the public market for our common stock (our three largest stockholders other than GSK collectively owned approximately 33.6% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017 based on our review of publicly available filings); and,    <U+0095> potential sales or purchases of our common stock by GSK.. We may be unable to or elect not to continue returning capital to our stockholders. Recently, we have focused on returning capital to stockholders and paid quarterly dividends during the third and fourth quarters of 2014 and during the first three quarters of 2015. From October 2015 through December 31, 2017, we repurchased an aggregate of 17,307,790 shares of our common stock for a total of $201.2 million. The payment of, or continuation of, capital returns to stockholders is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and is dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions, tax treatment of capital returns, potential future contractual restrictions contained in credit agreements and other agreements and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Future capital returns may also be affected by, among other factors: our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and our working capital and debt maintenance requirements; legal risks; stock or debt repurchase programs; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; and changes to our business model. Our capital return programs may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to provide any particular amounts. Our announcement of future capital return programs does not obligate us to repurchase any specific dollar amount of debt or equity or number of shares of common stock. A reduction, suspension or change in our capital return programs could have a negative effect on our stock price.. 33. Table of Contents. Concentration of ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate matters.. As of December 31, 2017, GSK beneficially owned approximately 31.4% of our outstanding common stock and our directors, executive officers and investors affiliated with these individuals beneficially owned approximately 2.4% of our outstanding common stock. Based on our review of publicly available filings as of December 31, 2017, our three largest stockholders other than GSK collectively owned approximately 33.6% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders could control the outcome of actions taken by us that require stockholder approval, including a transaction in which stockholders might receive a premium over the prevailing market price for their shares. Following the expiration of the governance agreement in September 2015, GSK is no longer subject to the restrictions thereunder regarding the voting of the shares of our common stock owned by it.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws and in Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company.. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions include:. <U+0095> requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws;     <U+0095> restricting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;    <U+0095> prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and    <U+0095> establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at meetings.. In addition, some provisions of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us."
