[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves numerous uncertainties and risks. In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risks and uncertainties may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or stock price. You should consider these risks and uncertainties carefully, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones we face. If any of the risks or uncertainties we face were to occur, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors that are described below and elsewhere in this report.. Risks related to our business and strategy. We face intense international, national, regional and local competition and if we are unable to compete successfully, it could have an adverse effect on our revenue, revenue growth rate, if any, and market share.. The oxygen therapy market is a highly competitive industry. We compete with a number of manufacturers and distributors of portable oxygen concentrators, as well as providers of other oxygen therapy solutions such as home delivery of oxygen tanks or cylinders, stationary concentrators, transfilling concentrators, and liquid oxygen.. Our significant manufacturing competitors are Invacare Corporation, Respironics (a subsidiary of Koninklijke Philips N.V.), AirSep Corporation and SeQual Technologies (subsidiaries of Chart Industries, Inc.), Inova Labs, Inc. (a subsidiary of ResMed), DeVilbiss Healthcare (a subsidiary of Drive Medical), O2 Concepts, Precision Medical and Gas Control Equipment. Given the relatively straightforward regulatory path in the oxygen therapy device manufacturing market, we expect that the industry will become increasingly competitive in the future. Manufacturing companies compete for sales to providers primarily on the basis of product features, quality, service and price.. For many years, Lincare, Inc. (a subsidiary of the Linde Group), Apria Healthcare, Inc., Rotech Healthcare, Inc. and American HomePatient, Inc. (now a subsidiary of Lincare, Inc.) have been among the market leaders in providing oxygen therapy, while the remaining oxygen therapy market is serviced by local providers. Because many oxygen therapy providers were either excluded from contracts in the Medicare competitive bidding process or will have difficulty providing service at the prevailing Medicare reimbursement rates, we expect more industry consolidation. Oxygen therapy providers compete primarily on the basis of product features and service, rather than price, since reimbursement levels are established by Medicare and Medicaid, or by the individual determinations of private payors.. Some of our competitors are large, well-capitalized companies with greater resources than we have. As a consequence, they are able to spend more aggressively on product development, marketing, sales and other product initiatives than we can. Some of these competitors have:. •  significantly greater name recognition;. •  established relationships with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party payors;. •  established distribution networks;. •  additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer higher discounts, longer warranties, financing or extended terms, other incentives to gain a competitive advantage;. 23. •  greater history in conducting research and development, manufacturing, marketing and obtaining regulatory approval for oxygen device products; and. •  greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing, patent litigation and customer financing.. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can due to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standard regulatory and reimbursement development and customer requirements. In light of these advantages that our competitors maintain, even if our technology and direct-to-consumer distribution strategy is more effective than the technology and distribution strategy of our competitors, current or potential customers might accept competitor products and services in lieu of purchasing our products. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as existing companies and competitors develop new or improved products and distribution strategies and as new companies enter the market with new technologies and distribution strategies. We may not be able to compete effectively against these organizations. Our ability to compete successfully and to increase our market share is dependent upon our reputation for providing responsive, professional and high-quality products and services and achieving strong customer satisfaction. Increased competition in the future could adversely affect our revenue, revenue growth rate, margins and market share.. If we are unable to continue to enhance our existing products and develop and market new products that respond to customer needs and preferences and achieve market acceptance, we may experience a decrease in demand for our products and our business could suffer.. We may not be able to compete as effectively with our competitors, and ultimately satisfy the needs and preferences of our customers, unless we can continue to enhance existing products and develop new innovative products. Product development requires significant financial, technological and other resources. While we expended $5.3 million, $5.1 million and $4.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively, for research and development efforts, we cannot assure that this level of investment will be sufficient to maintain a competitive advantage in product innovation, which could cause our business to suffer. Product improvements and new product introductions also require significant planning, design, development, patent protection, and testing at the technological, product, and manufacturing process levels and we may not be able to timely develop product improvements or new products or obtain necessary patent protection and regulatory clearances or approvals for such product improvements or new products in a timely manner, or at all. Our competitors' new products may enter the market before our new products reach market, be more effective with more features, obtain better market acceptance, or render our products obsolete. Any new products that we develop may not receive market acceptance or otherwise generate any meaningful sales or profits for us relative to our expectations based on, among other things, existing and anticipated investments in manufacturing capacity and commitments to fund advertising, marketing, promotional programs and research and development.. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our sales revenue and the loss of, or a significant shortfall in demand from, these customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. We receive a significant amount of our sales revenue from a limited number of customers, including distributors, HME oxygen providers, our private label partner and resellers. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, sales revenue to our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 40.1%, 41.4% and 33.0%, respectively, of our total revenue. We expect that sales to relatively few customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our total revenue in future periods. However, we can provide no assurance that any of these customers or any of our other customers will continue to utilize our products at current levels, pricing, or at all, and our revenue could fluctuate significantly due to changes in economic conditions, the use of competitive products, or the loss of, reduction of business with, or less favorable terms with any of our largest customers. Our future success will significantly depend upon the timing and volume of business from our largest customers and the financial and operational success of these customers. If we were to lose one of our key customers or have a key customer significantly reduce its volume of business with us, our revenue may be materially reduced and there would be an adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations.. 24. We obtain some of the components, subassemblies and completed products included in our Inogen One systems and our Inogen At Home from a single source or a limited group of manufacturers or suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these manufacturers or suppliers could cause significant production delays, an inability to meet customer demand and a substantial loss in revenue.. We utilize single-source suppliers for some of the components and subassemblies we use in our Inogen One systems and our Inogen At Home systems. For example, we have elected to source certain key components from single sources of supply, including our batteries, motors, valves, and some molded plastic components. Our dependence on single-source suppliers of components may expose us to several risks, including, among other things:. •  our suppliers may encounter financial hardships as a result of unfavorable economic and market conditions unrelated to our demand for components, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements;. •  suppliers may fail to comply with regulatory requirements, be subject to lengthy compliance, validation or qualification periods, or make errors in manufacturing components that could negatively affect the performance or safety of our products or cause delays in supplying of our products to our customers;. •  newly identified suppliers may not qualify under the stringent quality regulatory standards to which our business is subject;. •  we or our suppliers may not be able to respond to unanticipated changes in customer orders, and if orders do not match forecasts, we or our suppliers may have excess or inadequate inventory of materials and components;. •  we may be subject to price fluctuations due to a lack of long-term supply arrangements for key components;. •  we may experience delays in delivery by our suppliers due to customs clearing delays, shipping delays, scarcity of raw materials or changes in demand from us or their other customers;. •  we or our suppliers may lose access to critical services and components, resulting in an interruption in the manufacture, assembly and shipment of our systems;. •  our suppliers may be subject to allegations by other parties of misappropriation of proprietary information in connection with their supply of products to us, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements;. •  fluctuations in demand for products that our suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability or willingness to deliver components to us in a timely manner;. •  our suppliers may wish to discontinue supplying components or services to us; and. •  we may not be able to find new or alternative components or reconfigure our system and manufacturing processes in a timely manner if the necessary components become unavailable.. We have in the past experienced supply problems with some of our suppliers and may again experience problems in the future. For example, we have previously had issues with our suppliers sourcing certain components of our Inogen One products.  If we had not been able to obtain sufficient quantities of the required component, we would have been required to delay manufacturing until additional supplies became available, or we would have been required to validate an alternative component. We may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement suppliers, particularly for our single source components or subassemblies. Any interruption or delay in the supply of components or subassemblies, or our inability to obtain components or subassemblies from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and cause them to cancel orders or switch to competitive products.. In addition, we may be deemed to manufacture or contract to manufacture products that contain certain minerals that have been designated as \"conflict minerals\" under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. As a result, we may be required to perform due diligence to determine the origin of such minerals and disclose and report whether or not such minerals originated in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries. The implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability, and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of our products. In addition, we may incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products. If any of these risks materialize, costs could significantly increase and our ability to meet demand for our products could be impacted. If we are unable to satisfy commercial demand for our Inogen One systems and Inogen At Home systems in a timely manner, our ability to generate revenue would be impaired, market acceptance of our products could be adversely affected, and customers may instead purchase or use alternative products. In addition, we could be forced to secure new or alternative components and subassemblies through a replacement supplier. Finding alternative sources for these components and subassemblies could be difficult in certain cases and may entail a significant amount of time and disruption. In some cases, we would need to change the components or subassemblies if we sourced them from an alternative supplier. This, in turn, could require a. 25. redesign of our Inogen One systems and Inogen At Home systems and, potentially, require additional Food and Drug Administration (FDA) clearance or approval before we could use any redesigned product with new components or subassemblies, thereby causing further costs and delays that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. A significant majority of our rental patients who use our product have health coverage under the Medicare program, and recently enacted and future changes in the reimbursement rates or payment methodologies under Medicare and other government programs have affected and could continue to materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.. As a provider of oxygen product rentals, we depend heavily on Medicare reimbursement as a result of the higher proportion of elderly persons suffering from chronic respiratory conditions. Medicare Part B, or Supplementary Medical Insurance Benefits, provides coverage to eligible beneficiaries that include items of durable medical equipment for use in the home, such as oxygen equipment and other respiratory devices. We believe that more than 60% of oxygen therapy patients in the United States have primary coverage under Medicare Part B. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, we derived 7.0%, 12.4%, and 21.0%, respectively, of our total revenue from Medicare's program or beneficiaries (including patient co-insurance obligations). There are increasing pressures on Medicare to control healthcare costs and to reduce or limit reimbursement rates for home medical products.. Legislation, including the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, and the 21st Century Cures Act (Cures Act) contain provisions that directly impact reimbursement for the durable medical equipment products provided by us:. •  The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 significantly reduced reimbursement for inhalation drug therapies beginning in 2005, reduced payment amounts for certain durable medical equipment, including oxygen, beginning in 2005, froze payment amounts for other covered home medical equipment items through 2008, established a competitive bidding program for home medical equipment and implemented quality standards and accreditation requirements for durable medical equipment suppliers.. •  The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 limited the total number of continuous rental months for which Medicare will pay for oxygen equipment to 36 months, after which time there is generally no additional reimbursement to the supplier (other than for periodic, in-home maintenance and servicing). The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 also provided that title of the equipment would transfer to the beneficiary, which was later repealed by the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008. For purposes of the rental cap, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 provided for a new 36-month rental period that began January 1, 2006 for all oxygen equipment. After the 36th continuous month during which payment is made for the oxygen equipment, the supplier is generally required to continue to furnish the equipment during the period of medical need for the remainder of the useful lifetime of the equipment, provided there are no breaks in service due to medical necessity that exceed 60 days. The reasonable useful lifetime for our portable oxygen equipment is 60 months. After 60 months, if the patient requests, and the patient meets Medicare coverage criteria, the rental cycle starts over and a new 36-month rental period begins. There are no limits on the number of 60-month cycles over which a Medicare patient may receive benefits and an oxygen therapy provider may receive reimbursement, so long as such equipment continues to be medically necessary for the patient. We anticipate that the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 oxygen payment rules will continue to negatively affect our net revenue on an ongoing basis, as each month additional customers reach the capped rental period in month thirty-seven, resulting in potentially two or more years without rental income from these customers. Our capped patients as a percentage of total patients on service was approximately 17.0% as of December 31, 2017, which is slightly lower than the capped patients as a percentage of total patients on service of approximately 17.1% as of December 31, 2016. The percentage of capped patients may fluctuate over time as new patients come on service, patients come off of service before and during the capped rental period, and existing patients enter the capped rental period. We cannot predict the potential impact to rental revenues in future periods associated with patients in the capped rental period.. •  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, includes, among other things, new face-to-face physician encounter requirements for certain durable medical equipment and home health services, and a requirement that by 2016, the competitive bidding process must be nationalized or prices in non-competitive bidding areas must be adjusted to match competitive bidding prices. As of January 1, 2017, CMS has decreased prices for durable medical equipment in non-competitive bidding areas to match competitive bidding prices.. •  The Cures Act was passed in December 2016 and included a provision to roll-back the second cut to the non-CBA areas that was effective July 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016.  Reimbursement in these areas was increased to the rates experienced in the period from January 1, 2016 through June 30, 2016.  This led to a benefit in rental revenue of $2.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2016 and $0.2 million in the first quarter of 2017.  Effective January 1, 2017, rates are set at 100% of the adjusted fee schedule amount, based on the regional competitive bidding rates.  The Cures Act also calls for a study of the impact of the competitive bidding pricing on rural areas.. 26. These legislative provisions as currently in effect have had and will continue to have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. The Health and Human Services (HHS) Office of Inspector General (OIG) has recommended states to review Medicaid reimbursement for durable medical equipment (DME) and supplies. The OIG cites an earlier report estimating that four states (California, Minnesota, New York, and Ohio) could have saved more than $18.1 million on selected DME items if their Medicaid prices were comparable to those under round one of the Medicare competitive bidding program. Since issuing those reports, the OIG identified $12 million in additional savings that the four states could have obtained on the selected items by using pricing similar to the Medicare round two competitive bidding and national mail-order programs. In light of varying Medicaid provider rates for DME and the potential for lower spending, the OIG recommends that CMS (1) seek legislative authority to limit state Medicaid DME reimbursement rates to Medicare program rates, and (2) encourage further reduction of Medicaid reimbursement rates through competitive bidding or manufacturer rebates (the OIG did not determine the cost of implementing a rebate or competitive bidding program in each state). In December 2015, the Omnibus bill passed that will require state Medicaid agencies to match Medicare fee schedule reimbursement rates (including single payment amounts in applicable areas) beginning January 1, 2019, including for oxygen. The Cures Act accelerated the timing of this implementation to be effective beginning January 1, 2018.. On January 28, 2016, the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) published a final rule to implement Medicare's face-to-face provisions for home health and DME under the Medicaid program, effective July 1, 2016. Medicaid programs are run by state agencies that must coordinate with state legislative bodies, therefore the state agencies have until July 1, 2017 or July 1, 2018 (depending on the timing of their legislative sessions) to allow state agencies to publish compliant initiatives on this rule. All states except Montana, Nevada, North Dakota, and Texas were expected to initiate this requirement effective July 1, 2017. Montana, Nevada, North Dakota, and Texas are expected to implement the requirements by July 1, 2018.  The Medicaid definition of medical supplies, equipment and appliances were aligned with the Medicare definitions. In addition, the DHHS is implementing the requirement for a face-to-face visit related to the beneficiary's primary need for medical equipment within 6 months prior to the start of certain durable medical equipment services, including oxygen. These legislative provisions, when enacted, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial conditions and operating results.. On January 17, 2017, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services published a final rule effective March 20, 2017 to address the appeals backlog that includes allowing certain decisions to be made by the Medicare Appeals Council to set precedent for lower levels of appeal, expansion of the pool of available adjudicators, and increasing decision-making consistency among the levels of appeal. In addition, it included provisions to improve the efficiency by streamlining the appeals process, allowing attorneys to handle some procedural matters at the administrative law judge level, and proposed funding increases and legislative actions outlined in the federal budget for 2017. DHHS estimates estimate this could eliminate the backlog in appeals by 2021. However, if this plan is not effective, the appeals backlog could increase, which could increase our collection times and decrease our cash flow, increase billing administrative costs, and/or increase the provision for rental revenue adjustments, which would adversely affect our business financial condition and results of operations.. Due to budgetary shortfalls, many states are considering, or have enacted, cuts to their Medicaid programs. These cuts have included, or may include, elimination or reduction of coverage for our products, amounts eligible for payment under co-insurance arrangements, or payment rates for covered items. Continued state budgetary pressures could lead to further reductions in funding for the reimbursement for our products which, in turn, would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The competitive bidding process under Medicare could negatively affect our business and financial condition.. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish and implement programs under which competitive acquisition areas are established throughout the United States for purposes of awarding contracts for the furnishing of competitively priced items of durable medical equipment, including oxygen equipment.. As of January 1, 2011, Medicare phased in the competitive bidding program. The competitive bidding program impacts the amount Medicare reimburses suppliers of durable medical equipment rentals, including portable oxygen concentrators. The program is defined geographically, with suppliers submitting bids to provide medical equipment for specific product categories within a specified geographic region called competitive bidding areas, or CBAs. Once bids have been placed, an individual company's bids within a product category are aggregated and weighted by each product's market share in the category. The weighted-average price is then indexed against all bidding suppliers. Medicare determines a \"clearing price\" out of these weighted-average prices, at which a sufficient number of suppliers have indicated they will support patients in the category. This threshold is typically designed to generate theoretical supply that is twice the expected demand. Bids for each modality among the suppliers that made the cut are then arrayed to determine what Medicare will reimburse for each product category and geographic area. The program has strict anti-collusion guidelines to ensure bidding is truly competitive. A competitive bidding contract lasts up to three years, once implemented,. 27. after which the contract is subject to a new round of bidding. Discounts off the standard Medicare allowable occur in CBAs where contracts have been awarded as well as in cases where private payors pay less than this allowable. Competitive bidding rates are based on the zip code where the patient resides. Rental revenue includes payments for product, disposables, and customer service/support.. As of January 1, 2016, all areas previously not subject to the competitive bidding program (non-competitive bidding areas or \"non-CBAs\") have experienced reductions in the Medicare fee schedule for DMEPOS. The fee schedules in the non-CBAs were adjusted based on regional averages of the single payment amounts that apply to the competitive bidding program (Adjusted Fee Schedule). The regional prices are limited by a national ceiling (110% of the average of the regional prices) and a national floor (90% of the average regional prices). From January 1, 2016 to June 30, 2016, the reimbursement rates for these non-CBAs (with dates of service from January 1, 2016 to June 30, 2016) were 50% of the un-adjusted fee schedule amount plus 50% of the Adjusted Fee Schedule amount. As of July 1, 2016, Medicare reimbursed DMEPOS at 100% of the Adjusted Fee Schedule amount.  However, in December 2016, the Cures Act was passed, which included a provision to roll-back the second cut to the non-CBA areas that was effective July 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016.  Pricing in these areas was increased to the rates experienced in the period from January 1, 2016 through June 30, 2016.  This led to a benefit in rental revenue of $2.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2016 and $0.2 million in the first quarter of 2017. Effective January 1, 2017, rates are set at 100% of the adjusted fee schedule amount, based on the regional competitive bidding rates. The Cures Act also called for a study of the impact of the competitive bidding pricing on rural areas and accelerated the implementation of the Omnibus bill passed in December 2015 that requires state Medicaid agencies to match Medicare fee schedule reimbursement rates (including single payment amounts in applicable areas), effective as of January 1, 2018, including for oxygen.. The competitive bidding regions are defined as follows:. Region Name     States Covered  Far West     CA, NV, OR, WA  Great Lakes     IL, IN, MI, OH, WI  Mideast     DC, DE, MD, NJ, NY, PA  New England     CT, MA, NH, RI  Plains     IA, KS, MN, MO, NE  Rocky Mountain     CO, ID, UT  Southeast     AL, AR, FL, GA, KY, LA, NC, SC, TN, VA  Southwest     AZ, NM, OK, TX. In addition to regional pricing, CMS imposed different pricing on \"frontier states\" and rural areas. CMS defines frontier states as states where more than 50% of the counties in the state have a population density of 6 people or less per square mile and rural states are defined as states where more than 50% of the population lives in rural areas per census data. Current frontier states include MT, ND, SD and WY; rural states include ME, MS, VT and WV; and non-contiguous United States areas include AK, HI, Guam and Puerto Rico. For frontier and rural states, and frontier and rural zip codes in non-frontier/rural states, the single payment amount will be the national ceiling (110% of the average of the regional prices) to account for higher servicing costs in these areas. For non-contiguous United States areas, single payment amounts will be the higher of the national ceiling, or the average of competitive bidding pricing from these areas, if the areas had been bid through competitive bidding. We estimate that less than 10% of our patients would be eligible to receive the 110% of the regional prices for rural and frontier areas based on the geographic locations of our current patient population.. With regard to round two re-compete, which began on July 1, 2016, CMS updated the product categories and the competitive bidding areas. Respiratory equipment includes oxygen, oxygen equipment, continuous positive airway pressure devices, respiratory assist devices and related supplies and accessories. Nebulizers are now a separate product category from respiratory equipment. Round two re-compete is in the same geographic areas that were included in the original round two. However, as a result of the Office of Management and Budget's updates to the original 91 round two metropolitan statistical areas, there are now 90 metropolitan statistical areas for round two re-compete and 117 CBAs. Any CBA that was previously located in multi-state metropolitan statistical areas was redefined so that no CBA is included in more than one state. The round two re-compete CBAs have nearly the same zip codes as the round two CBAs; the associated changes in the zip codes since competitive bidding was implemented are reflective in this round two re-compete. Pricing was announced in March 2016 and impacts both the zip codes covered under round two and also the rates for the non-CBAs effective July 1, 2016.. In round one 2017, there were 9 metropolitan statistical areas and 13 CBAs to make sure each CBA does not cross state boundaries. We estimate approximately 9% of the Medicare market was impacted by these contracts which began on January 1, 2017 and continue through December 31, 2018. Pricing was announced in September 2016 and impacts both the zip codes covered under round one and also the rates for the non-CBAs effective January 1, 2017. To the extent that we are not successful in future competitive bidding rounds, we may lose access to patients in CBAs in which we are not awarded contracts, which would adversely affect our. 28. business, financial condition and results of operation. Moreover, any items and services provided by the Company to Medicare patients that reside in non-CBAs will be affected by the reimbursement reductions aimed at bringing national reimbursement in line with the competitive bidding program single payment amounts.. On April 16, 2015, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 was signed into law which requires Medicare suppliers that bid under the DMEPOS competitive bidding program to obtain a $0.05 million to $0.1 million bid surety bond for each CBA. The provision is intended to prevent suppliers from submitting not-binding, \"low-ball\" bids that artificially drive down prices and jeopardize beneficiary access to equipment. If the supplier bids at or lower than the median composite bid rate and does not accept a contract offered for a CBA, the bid bond would be forfeited. The Act also codifies that competitive bidding contracts can only be awarded to suppliers that meet applicable state licensure requirements. We will incur additional expense to obtain the appropriate surety bonds in the CBAs where we win contracts in future competitive bidding rounds. As of January 1, 2017, there are 13 CBAs under contract in round one 2017 and 117 CBAs under contract in round two re-compete. CBAs are defined by Medicare and are subject to change at each new bidding period.. On November 4, 2016, CMS published a final rule in the Federal Register imposing additional regulations on the competitive bidding process. The final rule requires bidders choosing to participate in the competitive bidding program to obtain a $0.05 million surety bond for each CBA in which they bid. If a bidder does not accept a contract offer when its composite bid is at or below the median composite bid rate for suppliers used in the calculation of the single payment amount, the bid surety bond for the applicable CBA will be forfeited to CMS. In instances where the bidder does not meet the forfeiture conditions specified in the final rule, the bid surety bond liability will be returned to the bidder within 90 days of the public announcement of the contract suppliers for the CBA. Currently, there are 130 CBAs, which would mean a bidding supplier could incur a surety bond obligation with forfeiture conditions of up to $6.5 million. The final rule also changes the bid limits for individual items for future rounds of competitive bidding to reflect the 2015 unadjusted fee schedule to avoid a downward trend in bid pricing, to ensure the long-term viability of the competitive bidding program, and to allow suppliers to take into account both decreases and increases in costs in determining their bids. The rule also finalizes an appeals process for all breach of contract actions that CMS may take under the competitive bidding program. Lastly, the final rule sets forth a provision for lead item bidding for certain product categories in future bidding rounds to prevent the creation of price inversions, which occurred in round two of competitive bidding. Lead item bidding means that all HCPCS codes for similar items will be grouped together and priced relative to the bid for the \"lead item,\" as calculated by CMS.. On November 2, 2017, a bi-partisan bill with 122 co-sponsors was introduced in the House of Representatives that would provide relief from competitive bidding in non-bid areas.  If passed, the bill would extend a retroactive delay of a second round of reimbursement cuts for Medicare beneficiaries from January 1, 2017 to January 1, 2019 based on the reimbursement rates effective on January 1, 2016.  The legislation also proposes to remedy a double-dip cut to oxygen payments caused by the misapplication of a 2006 budget neutrality offset balancing increased utilization for oxygen generating portable equipment with lower reimbursement for stationary equipment.. Although we continue to monitor developments regarding the implementation of the competitive bidding program, we cannot predict the outcome of the competitive bidding program on our business when fully implemented, nor the Medicare payment rates that will be in effect in future years for the items subject to competitive bidding, including our products. We expect that the stationary oxygen and non-delivery ambulatory oxygen payment rates will continue to fluctuate, and a large negative payment adjustment would adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations.. The implementation of prior authorization rules for DMEPOS under Medicare could negatively affect our business and financial condition.. CMS has issued a final rule to require Medicare prior authorization (PA) for certain durable medical equipment, prosthetics, orthotics, and supplies (DMEPOS) that the agency characterizes as frequently subject to unnecessary utilization. The final rule was published on December 30, 2015 and specifies a master list of 135 items that could potentially be subject to PA, including stationary oxygen rentals (E1390). The master list will be updated annually and published in the Federal Register. The presence of an item on the master list does not automatically mean that a PA is required. CMS will select a subset of these master list items for its \"Required Prior Authorization List\", which has not yet been published in the Federal Register. There will be a notice period of at least 60 days prior to implementation. The ruling does not create any new clinical documentation requirements; instead the same information necessary to support Medicare payment will be required prior to the item being furnished to the beneficiary. CMS has proposed that reasonable efforts are made to provide a PA decision within 10 days of receipt of all applicable information, unless this timeline could seriously jeopardize the life or health of the beneficiary or the beneficiary's ability to regain maximum function, in which case the proposed PA decision would be 2 business days. CMS will issue additional sub-regulatory guidance on these timelines in the future.  CMS has announced that two power mobility codes (HCPCS K0856 and K0861) will be considered for PA as CMS moves forward with the implementation of this final rule. No other codes have been publicly discussed. If our products are subject to prior authorization, it could reduce the number of patients qualified to come on service using their Medicare benefits, it could delay the start of those patients while we wait for the prior authorization to be received, and/or it could decrease sales productivity. As a result, this could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations.. 29. The Medicare Fee-For-Service (FFS) sequestration reduction has and may continue to negatively impact our revenue and profits.. Medicare FFS claims with dates of service on or after April 1, 2013 are subject to a 2% reduction in Medicare payment, including claims for DMEPOS, including in competitive bidding areas. The claims payment adjustment is applied to all claims after determining co-insurance, any applicable deductible, and any applicable Medicare secondary payment adjustments. These reductions are included in rental revenue adjustments. This sequestration reduction will continue until further notice. As a result, this could adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations.. Healthcare reform measures may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. In the United States, the legislative landscape, particularly as it relates to healthcare regulation and reimbursement coverage, continues to evolve. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was passed, which has the potential to substantially change healthcare financing by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impact the U.S. medical device industry. In addition, as discussed above, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act also expands round two of the competitive bidding program to a total of 117 CBAs, and in 2016 prices in non-CBAs were adjusted to match competitive bidding prices.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 created, among other things, measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013, and will remain in effect through 2024 unless additional Congressional action is taken. On January 2, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to certain providers, including physicians, hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for our products or additional pricing pressures.. In addition to the legislative changes discussed above, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act also requires healthcare providers to voluntarily report and return an identified overpayment within 60 days after identifying the overpayment. Failure to repay the overpayment within 60 days will result in the claim being considered a \"false claim\" and the healthcare provider will be subject to False Claims Act liability.. State legislative bodies also have the right to enact legislation that would impact requirements of home medical equipment providers, including oxygen therapy providers. Some states have already enacted legislation that would require in-state facilities. States such as Arizona and New York have recently considered such legislation. Arizona introduced HB2266 in the beginning of 2016. HB2266 would have required any durable medical equipment supplier to maintain a physical location within Arizona or 100 miles of an Arizona resident who is a Medicare beneficiary being serviced by the supplier. HB2266 died in legislature in 2016. New York considered bill A05074, which would have required certain durable medical equipment suppliers to maintain a storefront in New York state. Although the bill passed Assembly and Senate, it was vetoed by the Governor in 2016. We are monitoring all state requirements to maintain compliance with state-specific legislation and access to service patients in these states. To the extent such legislation is enacted, it could result in increased administrative costs or otherwise exclude us from doing business in a particular state, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results.. We face uncertainties that might result from modification or repeal of any of the provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, including as a result of current and future executive orders and legislative actions. The impact of those changes on us and potential effect on the durable medical equipment industry as a whole is currently unknown.  But, any changes to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act are likely to have an impact on our results of operations and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  We cannot predict what other healthcare programs and regulations will ultimately be implemented at the federal or state level or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the United States may have on our business.. We depend upon reimbursement from Medicare, private payors, Medicaid and patients for a significant portion of our revenue, and if we fail to manage the complex and lengthy reimbursement process, our business and operating results could suffer.. A significant portion of our rental revenue is derived from reimbursement by third-party payors. We accept assignment of insurance benefits from customers and, in a majority of cases, invoice and collect payments directly from Medicare, private payors and Medicaid, as well as direct from patients under co-insurance provisions. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, approximately 9.6%, 17.1% and 28.5%, respectively, of our total revenue was derived from Medicare, private payors, Medicaid, and individual patients who directly receive reimbursement from third-party payors.. 30. Our financial condition and results of operations may be affected by the healthcare industry's reimbursement process, which is complex and can involve lengthy delays between the time that a product is delivered to the consumer and the time that the reimbursement amounts are settled. Depending on the payor, we may be required to obtain certain payor-specific documentation from physicians and other healthcare providers before submitting claims for reimbursement. Certain payors have filing deadlines and they will not pay claims submitted after such time. We are also subject to extensive pre-payment and post-payment audits by governmental and private payors that could result in material delays, refunds of monies received or denials of claims submitted for payment under such third-party payor programs and contracts. We cannot ensure that we will be able to continue to effectively manage the reimbursement process and collect payments for our products promptly. If we fail to manage the complex and lengthy reimbursement process, it would adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations.. Failure to obtain private payor contracts and future reductions in reimbursement rates from private payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.. A portion of our revenue is derived from private payors. Based on our patient population, we estimate at least 30% of potential customers have non-Medicare insurance coverage, and we believe these patients represent a younger and more active patient population that will be drawn to the quality-of-life benefits of our solution. Failing to maintain and obtain private payor contracts from private insurance companies and employers and secure in-network provider status could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, private payors are under pressure to increase profitability and reduce costs. In response, certain private payors are limiting coverage or reducing reimbursement rates for the products we provide. We believe that private payor reimbursement levels will generally be reset in accordance with the Medicare payment amounts determined by competitive bidding. We cannot predict the extent to which reimbursement for our products will be affected by competitive bidding or by initiatives to reduce costs for private payors. Failure to obtain or maintain private payor contracts or the unavailability of third-party coverage or inadequacy of reimbursement for our products would adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations.. We do not have long-term supply contracts with many of our third-party suppliers.. We purchase components and subassemblies from third-party suppliers, including some of our single-source suppliers, through purchase orders and do not have long-term supply contracts with many of these third-party suppliers. Many of our third-party suppliers, therefore, are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantity or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. We do not maintain large volumes of inventory from most of these suppliers. If we inaccurately forecast demand or fail to place orders timely enough relative to fluctuating lead time requirements for components or subassemblies, our ability to manufacture and commercialize our Inogen One systems and Inogen At Home systems could be delayed and our competitive position and reputation could be harmed. In addition, if we fail to effectively manage our relationships with these suppliers, we may be required to change suppliers which would be time consuming and disruptive and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. If our manufacturing facilities become unavailable or inoperable, we will be unable to continue manufacturing our Inogen One systems and Inogen At Home systems and, as a result, our business, financial condition, and operating results will be harmed until we are able to secure a new facility.. We assemble our Inogen One concentrators and Inogen At Home concentrators at our facility in Richardson, Texas and assemble compressors as well as load and assemble sieve beds (columns) at our facility in Goleta, California. In the fourth quarter of 2017, we began using a contract manufacturer in Europe to assemble a portion of our Inogen One G3 concentrators for our European customers. No other manufacturing facilities are currently available to us, particularly facilities of the size and scope of our Texas facility. Our facilities and the equipment we use to manufacture our Inogen One systems and Inogen At Home systems would be costly to replace and could require substantial lead time to procure, repair or replace. Our facilities may be harmed or rendered inoperable by natural or man-made disasters, including fire, flood, earthquakes and power outages, which may render it difficult or impossible for us to manufacture our products for some period of time. If any of our facilities become unavailable to us, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to secure and equip a new manufacturing facility on acceptable terms, in a timely manner. The inability to manufacture our products, combined with delays in replacing parts inventory and manufacturing supplies and equipment, may result in the loss of customers and/or harm our reputation, and we may be unable to reestablish relationships with those customers in the future. Although we have insurance coverage for certain types of disasters which may help us recover some of the costs of damage to our property and lost income from the disruption of our business, insurance coverage of certain perils may be limited or unavailable at cost effective rates and may therefore not be sufficient to cover any or all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If our manufacturing capabilities are impaired, we may not be able to manufacture, store, and ship our products in sufficient quantity or a cost effective or timely manner, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results.. 31. We intend to rely upon a third-party contract manufacturer for certain manufacturing operations and our business and results of operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with their business, financial condition, and the geography in which they operate.. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2017, we began utilizing a third-party contract manufacturer for production of our Inogen One G3 concentrators in the Czech Republic. There are a number of risks associated with our dependence on a contract manufacturer, including:. •  reduced control over delivery schedules and planning;. •  reliance on the quality assurance procedures of a third party;. •  risks associated with our contract manufacturer failing to manufacture our products according to our specifications, quality regulations, including the FDA's Quality System regulations, or otherwise manufacturing products that we or regulatory authorities deem to be unsuitable for commercial use;. •  risks associated with our contract manufacturer's ability to successfully undergo FDA and other regulatory authority quality inspections;. •  potential uncertainty regarding manufacturing yields and costs;. •  availability of manufacturing capability and capacity, particularly during periods of high demand;. •  risks and uncertainties associated with the location or country where our products are manufactured, including potential manufacturing disruptions caused by social, geopolitical or environmental factors;. •  changes in U.S. law or policy governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the countries where we manufacture our products, including the World Trade Organization Information Technology Agreement or other free trade agreements;. •  delays in delivery by suppliers due to customs clearing delays, shipping delays, scarcity of raw materials and changes in demand from us or their other customers;. •  limited warranties provided to us; and. •  potential misappropriation of our intellectual property.. These and other risks could impair our ability to fulfill orders, harm our sales and impact our reputation with customers. If our contract manufacturer is unable or unwilling to manufacture our products or components of our products, or if our contract manufacturer discontinues operations, we may be required to identify and qualify alternative manufacturers, which could cause us to be unable to meet our supply requirements to our customers and result in the breach of our customer agreements. The process of qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time-consuming, and if we are required to change or qualify a new contract manufacturer, we would likely lose sales revenue and damage our existing customer relationships.. If we are unable to manage our anticipated growth effectively, our business could be harmed.. The rapid growth of our business has placed a significant strain on our managerial and operational resources and systems. To execute our anticipated growth successfully, we must continue to attract and retain capable personnel and manage and train them effectively. We must also upgrade our internal business processes and capabilities to create the scalability that a growing business demands.. We plan to continue the expansion of our facilities located in Richardson, Texas. Domestic expansion combined with our use of a contract manufacturer in Europe to produce a portion of our Inogen One G3 concentrators, are expected to be sufficient to meet our manufacturing needs. However, our anticipated growth will place additional strain on our supply chain and manufacturing facilities, resulting in an increased need for us to carefully monitor parts inventory, capable staffing and quality assurance. Any failure by us to manage our growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals.. We may expand through acquisitions of, or investments in, other companies, each of which may divert our management's attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, increase expenses, disrupt our operations, and harm our results of operations.. Our business strategy may, from time to time, include acquiring or investing in complementary services, technologies or businesses, such as our recent acquisition of MedSupport Systems B.V. We cannot assure you that we will successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, integrate or manage disparate technologies, lines of business, personnel and corporate cultures, realize. 32. our business strategy or the expected return on our investment, or manage a geographically dispersed company. Any such acquisition or investment could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The acquisition and integration process is complex, expensive and time-consuming, and may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, product development and sales activities and operations of both companies, and we may incur substantial cost and expense, as well as divert the attention of management. We may issue equity securities which could dilute current stockholders' ownership, incur debt, assume contingent or other liabilities and expend cash in acquisitions, which could negatively impact our financial position, stockholder equity, and stock price.. Acquisitions and other strategic investments involve significant risks and uncertainties, including:. •  the potential failure to achieve the expected benefits of the combination or acquisition;. •  unanticipated costs and liabilities;. •  difficulties in integrating new products, businesses, operations, and technology infrastructure in an efficient and effective manner;. •  difficulties in maintaining customer relations;. •  the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses;. •  the diversion of the attention of our senior management from the operation of our daily business;. •  the potential adverse effect on our cash position to the extent that we use cash for the purchase price;. •  the potential significant increase of our interest expense, leverage, and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition;. •  the potential issuance of securities that would dilute our stockholders' percentage ownership;. •  the potential to incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses; and. •  the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies, and procedures.. Any acquisition or investment could expose us to unknown liabilities. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment. In addition, our inability to successfully operate and integrate newly acquired businesses appropriately, effectively, and in a timely manner could impair our ability to take advantage of future growth opportunities and other advances in technology, as well as on our revenues, gross margins, and expenses.. We may experience manufacturing problems or delays that could limit our growth or adversely affect our operating results.. Our Inogen One systems and Inogen At Home systems are manufactured using complex processes, sophisticated equipment and strict adherence to specifications and quality standards. Any unforeseen manufacturing problems, such as contamination of our facility, equipment malfunction or miscalibration, supply chain shortages, regulatory findings, or failure to strictly follow procedures or meet specifications, could result in delays or shortfalls in production of our products. Identifying and resolving the cause of any such manufacturing issues could require substantial time and resources. If we are unable to keep up with demand for our products by successfully manufacturing and shipping our products in a timely and quality manner, our operating results could be impaired, market acceptance for our products could be adversely affected and our customers might instead purchase our competitors' products.. In addition, the introduction of new products may require the development of new manufacturing processes and procedures. While all of our products are assembled using essentially the same basic processes, significant changes in technology, programming, and other variations may be required to meet product specifications. Developing new processes can be very time consuming and affect quality, as such any unexpected difficulty in doing so could delay the introduction of a new product and our ability to produce sufficient quantities of existing products.. We are exposed to the credit and non-payment risk of our HME providers, distributors, private label partners and resellers, especially during times of economic uncertainty and tight credit markets, which could result in material losses.. We make sales to certain HME providers, distributors, private label partner and resellers on unsecured credit, with terms that vary depending upon the customer's credit history, solvency, cash flow, credit limits and sales history, as well as prevailing terms with similarly situated customers and whether sufficient credit insurance can be obtained. Challenging economic conditions may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products they have purchased, and as a result, our reserves for doubtful accounts and write-off of accounts receivable could increase and, even if increased, may turn out to be insufficient. Moreover, even in cases where we have insolvency risk insurance to protect against a customer's bankruptcy, insolvency or liquidation, this insurance typically contains a. 33. significant deductible and co-payment obligation and does not cover all instances of non-payment. Our exposure to credit risks of our business partners may increase if our business partners and their end customers are adversely affected by global or regional economic conditions. One or more of these business partners could delay payments or default on credit extended to them, either of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results.. We generate a substantial portion of our revenue internationally and are subject to various risks relating to such international activities, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, any disruption or delay in the shipping of our products, whether domestically or internationally, may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. During the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, approximately 22.3%, 24.7% and 22.2%, respectively, of our total revenue was generated from customers located outside of the United States. We believe that a significant percentage of our future revenue will continue to come from international sources as we expand our international operations and develop opportunities in other countries. Engaging in international business inherently involves a number of difficulties and risks, including:. •  required compliance with anti-bribery laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.K. Bribery Act, data privacy requirements, labor laws, and anti-competition regulations;. •  export or import restrictions;. •  obtaining and maintaining regulatory clearances, approvals and certifications;. •  laws and business practices favoring local companies;. •  difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;. •  unstable economic, political, and regulatory conditions;. •  supply chain complexities;. •  fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. •  potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs, customs charges, bureaucratic requirements, and other trade barriers; and. •  difficulties protecting or procuring intellectual property rights.. If one or more of these risks occurs, it could require us to dedicate significant resources to remedy, and if we are unsuccessful in finding a solution, our financial results will suffer.. In addition, on June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (U.K.) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" In February 2017, the British Parliament voted in favor of allowing the British government to begin the formal process of Brexit and discussions with the European Union began in March 2017. Adverse consequences concerning Brexit or the future of the European Union could include deterioration in global economic conditions, instability in global financial markets, political uncertainty, volatility in currency exchange rates or adverse changes in the cross-border agreements currently in place, any of which could have an adverse impact on our financial results in the future.. A majority of our product sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars and fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could decrease demand for our products and adversely impact our financial performance. For example, if the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies, our products could become more costly to the international consumer and therefore less competitive in international markets. Our results of operations and cash flows are, therefore, subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The volatility of exchange rates depends on many factors that we cannot forecast with reliable accuracy. We have experienced and will continue to experience fluctuations in our net income or loss as a result of transaction gains or losses related to revaluing certain current asset and current liability balances that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entities in which they are recorded. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2017, we experienced a net foreign currency gain of $1.3 million, and for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, we experienced a net foreign currency loss of $0.3 million, and $0.4 million, respectively. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on our financial results in the future. While we have a hedging program for Euros that attempts to manage currency exchange rate risks to an acceptable level based on management's judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity, and cost, this hedging program does not completely eliminate the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations.  In addition, currency hedging may result in a reduction in revenue should the currency strengthen during the contract period. A discussion of the hedging program is contained in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Additional information on our hedging arrangements is also contained in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 34. We rely on shipping providers to deliver products to our customers globally. Labor, tariff, or World Trade Organization-related disputes, piracy, physical damage to shipping facilities or equipment caused by severe weather or terrorist incidents, congestion at shipping facilities, inadequate equipment to load, dock, and offload our products, energy-related tie-ups, or other factors could disrupt or delay shipping or off-loading of our products domestically and internationally. Such disruptions or delays may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to comply with anti-bribery, anti-corruption, and anti-money laundering laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, or the FCPA, and similar laws associated with our activities outside of the United States could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences.. We are subject to the FCPA, the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. § 201, the U.S. Travel Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act of 2010 and possibly other anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws in the more than forty countries around the world where we conduct activities and sell our products. We face significant risks and liability if we fail to comply with the FCPA and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws that prohibit companies and their employees and third-party business partners, such as distributors or resellers, from authorizing, offering or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to foreign government officials, political parties or candidates, employees of public international organizations including healthcare professionals, or private-sector recipients for the corrupt purpose of obtaining or retaining business, directing business to any person, or securing any advantage.. We leverage various third parties to sell our products and conduct our business abroad. We, our distributors and channel partners, and our other third-party intermediaries and manufacturer may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities (such as in the context of obtaining government approvals, registrations, or licenses) and may be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party business partners and intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, partners, and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. In many foreign countries, particularly in countries with developing economies, it may be a local custom that businesses engage in practices that are prohibited by the FCPA or other applicable laws and regulations. As such, we intend to continue to implement an FCPA/anti-corruption compliance program to ensure compliance with such laws but cannot assure you that all of our employees and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, will not take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we have to defend ourselves and may be ultimately held responsible.. Any violation of the FCPA, other applicable anti-bribery, anti-corruption laws, and anti-money laundering laws could result in whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage, investigations, loss of export privileges, severe criminal or civil sanctions and, in the case of the FCPA, suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracts, which could have a material and adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and prospects. In addition, responding to any enforcement action or related investigation may result in a materially significant diversion of management's attention and resources and significant defense costs and other professional fees.. If we fail to comply with U.S. export control and economic sanctions or fail to expand and maintain an effective sales force or successfully develop our international distribution network, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.. We currently derive the majority of our revenue from rentals or sales generated from our own direct sales force. Failure to maintain or expand our direct sales force could adversely impact our financial and operating performance. Additionally, we use international distributors to augment our sales efforts, certain of which are exclusive distributors in certain foreign countries. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop our relationships with third-party distributors internationally. In addition, we are subject to United States export control and economic sanctions laws relating to the sale of our products, the violation of which could result in substantial penalties being imposed against us. In particular, we have secured annual export licenses from the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control to sell our products to a distributor and hospital and clinic end-users in Iran. The use of this license requires us to observe strict conditions with respect to products sold, end-user limitations and payment requirements. Although we believe we have maintained compliance with license requirements, there can be no assurance that the license will not be revoked, be renewed in the future or that we will remain in compliance. More broadly, if we fail to comply with export control laws or successfully develop our relationship with international distributors, our sales could fail to grow or could decline, and our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. Distributors that are in the business of selling other medical products may not devote a sufficient level of resources and support required to generate awareness of our products and grow or maintain product sales. If our distributors are unwilling or unable to market and sell our products, or if they do not perform to our expectations, we could experience delayed or reduced market acceptance and sales of our products.. 35. We may be subject to substantial warranty or product liability claims or other litigation in the ordinary course of business that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. As manufacturers of medical devices, we may be subject to substantial warranty or product liability claims or other litigation in the ordinary course of business that may require us to make significant expenditures to defend these claims or pay damage awards. For example, our Inogen One systems contain lithium ion batteries, which, under certain circumstances, can be a fire hazard. We, as well as our key suppliers, maintain product liability insurance, but this insurance is limited in amount and subject to significant deductibles. There is no guarantee that insurance will be available or adequate to protect against all claims. Our insurance policies are subject to annual renewal and we may not be able to obtain liability or product insurance in the future on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, our insurance premiums could be subject to increases in the future, which may be material. If the coverage limits are inadequate to cover our liabilities or our insurance costs continue to increase as a result of warranty or product liability claims or other litigation, then our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected.. We may also be subject to other types of claims arising from our normal business activities. These may include claims, suits, and proceedings involving labor and employment, wage and hour, commercial, alleged securities laws violations or other investor claims, patent defense and other matters. The outcome of any litigation, regardless of its merits, is inherently uncertain. Any claims and lawsuits, and the disposition of such claims and lawsuits, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, divert management attention and resources, and lead to attempts on the part of other parties to pursue similar claims. Any adverse determination related to litigation could require us to change our technology or our business practices, pay monetary damages or enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results.. Increases in our operating costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.. Reimbursement rates are established by fee schedules mandated by Medicare, private payors and Medicaid, and are likely to remain constant or decrease due, in part, to federal and state government budgetary constraints. As a result, with respect to Medicare and Medicaid related revenue, we are not able to offset the effects of general inflation on our operating costs through increases in prices for our products. In particular, labor and related costs account for a significant portion of our operating costs and we compete with other healthcare providers to attract and retain qualified or skilled personnel and with various industries for administrative and service employees. This competitive environment could result in increased labor costs. As such, we must control our operating costs, particularly labor and related costs and failing to do so could adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations.. We depend on the services of our senior executives and other key technical personnel, the loss of whom could negatively affect our business.. Our success depends upon the skills, experience and efforts of our senior executives and other key technical personnel, including certain members of our engineering staff and our sales and marketing executives. Much of our corporate expertise is concentrated in relatively few employees, the loss of which for any reason could negatively affect our business. Competition for our highly skilled employees is intense and we cannot prevent the resignation of any employee. We do not maintain \"key man\" life insurance on any of our senior executives. None of our senior executive team is bound by written employment contracts to remain with us for a specified period. In addition, we have not entered into non-compete agreements with members of our executive management team. The loss of any member of our executive management team could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the market conditions in which we operate.. We rely on information technology, and if we are unable to protect against service interruptions, data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security breaches, our operations could be disrupted and our business could be negatively affected.. We rely on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic, customer, operational, compliance, and financial information; to coordinate our business; and to communicate within our company and with customers, suppliers, partners and other third-parties. These information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns, hardware or software failures, power outages, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, security breaches, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. Like other companies, we have experienced attacks on our systems. If our information technology systems suffer unauthorized access, severe damage, disruption or shutdown, and our business continuity do not effectively identify or resolve the issues in a timely manner, our operations could be disrupted, we could be subject to regulatory and consumer lawsuits and our business could be negatively affected. In addition, cyber-attacks could lead to potential unauthorized access and disclosure of confidential information (including patient-identifiable health information), and data loss and corruption. There is no assurance that we will not experience service interruptions, security breaches, cyber-attacks, or other information technology failures in the future.. 36. Our financial results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, which may lead to volatility in our stock price.. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations have varied in the past and may continue to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. This variability may lead to volatility in our stock price as research analysts and investors respond to these quarterly fluctuations. These fluctuations are due to numerous factors, including: fluctuations in consumer demand for our products; seasonal cycles in consumer spending (as discussed in Item 1, Seasonality and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K); our ability to design, manufacture and deliver products to our consumers in a timely and cost-effective manner; quality control problems in our manufacturing operations; our ability to timely obtain adequate quantities of the components used in our products; new product introductions and enhancements by us and our competitors; unanticipated increases in costs or expenses; unanticipated regulatory reimbursement changes that could result in positive or negative impacts to our earnings; changes or updates to generally accepted accounting principles; and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As more HME providers adopt portable oxygen concentrators in their businesses, we expect that this could change our historical seasonality in the domestic business-to-business channel as well, which was previously influenced mainly by consumer buying patterns. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly and annual results of operations.  We have experienced significant revenue growth in the past, but we may not achieve similar growth rates, profit margins and/or net income in future periods.  You should not rely on our operating results for any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future operating performance.  If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue growth and cost control, our operating results could suffer, and our stock price could decline. In addition, a significant amount of our operating expenses are relatively fixed due to our manufacturing, research and development and sales and general administrative efforts. Any failure to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for a revenue shortfall could magnify the adverse impact of such revenue shortfall on our results of operations. Our results of operations may not meet the expectations of research analysts or investors, in which case the price of our common stock could decrease significantly.. Given our levels of stock-based compensation, our tax rate may vary significantly depending on our stock price.. The tax effects of the accounting for share-based compensation may significantly impact our effective tax rate from period to period.  In periods in which our stock price is higher than the grant price of the stock-based compensation vesting in that period, we will recognize excess tax benefits that will decrease our effective tax rate.  For example, in 2017 excess tax benefits recognized from stock-based compensation decreased our provision for income taxes by $9.9 million and our effective tax rate by 33.5% as compared to the tax rate without such benefits.  In future periods in which our stock price is lower than the grant price of the stock-based compensation vesting in that period, our effective tax rate may increase.  The amount and value of stock-based compensation issued relative to our earnings in a particular period will also affect the magnitude of the impact of stock-based compensation on our effective tax rate.  These tax effects are dependent on our stock price, which we do not control, and a decline in our stock price could significantly increase our effective tax rate and adversely affect our financial results.. If the market opportunities for our products are smaller than we believe they are, our revenues may be adversely affected and our business may suffer.. Our projections regarding (i) the size of the oxygen therapy market, both in the United States and internationally, (ii) the size and percentage of the oxygen therapy market that is subject to competitive bidding in the United States, (iii) the number of oxygen therapy patients, (iv) the number of patients requiring ambulatory and stationary oxygen, (v) the number of patients who rely on the delivery model, and (vi) the share of portable oxygen concentrators as a percentage of the total oxygen therapy spend are based on estimates that we believe are reliable. These estimates may prove to be incorrect, new data or studies may change the estimated incidence or prevalence of patients requiring oxygen therapy, or the type of oxygen therapy patients. The number of patients in the United States and internationally may turn out to be lower than expected, patients may not be otherwise amenable to treatment with our products, or new patients may become increasingly difficult to identify or gain access to, all of which would adversely affect our results of operations and our business.. An adverse outcome of a sales and use tax audit could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. The California State Board of Equalization conducted a sales and use tax audit of our operations in California in 2008. As a result of the audit, the California State Board of Equalization confirmed that our sales are not subject to California sales and use tax. We believe that our sales in four states may be subject to sales and use tax, but in other states they should be exempt from sales and use tax. There can be no assurance, however, that other states may agree with our position and we may be subject to an audit that may not be resolved in our favor. Such an audit could be expensive and time-consuming and result in substantial management distraction. If the matter were to be resolved in a manner adverse to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. 37. Changes in accounting principles, or interpretations thereof, could have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations.. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, referred to as U.S. GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. Additionally, the adoption of new or revised accounting principles may require that we make significant changes to our systems, processes and controls.. For example, the U.S.-based Financial Accounting Standards Board, referred to as FASB, is currently working together with the International Accounting Standards Board, referred to as IASB, on several projects to further align accounting principles and facilitate more comparable financial reporting between companies who are required to follow U.S. GAAP under SEC regulations and those who are required to follow International Financial Reporting Standards outside of the United States. These efforts by the FASB and IASB may result in different accounting principles under U.S. GAAP that may result in materially different financial results for us in areas including, but not limited to, principles for recognizing revenue and lease accounting. Additionally, significant changes to U.S. GAAP resulting from the FASB's and IASB's efforts may require that we change how we process, analyze and report financial information and that we change financial reporting controls.. It is not clear if or when these potential changes in accounting principles may become effective, whether we have the proper systems and controls in place to accommodate such changes and the impact that any such changes may have on our financial position and results of operations.. Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations.. Our existing net operating losses (NOLs) are subject to limitations arising from ownership changes and are subject to the provisions of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the State of California Revenue and Taxation Code. If we undergo one or more future ownership changes our ability to utilize NOLs could be further limited.. Uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) was enacted on December 22, 2017, and significantly affected U.S. tax law by changing how the U.S. imposes income tax.  U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issues regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations.. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.. The income and non-income tax regimes we are subject to or operate under are unsettled and may be subject to significant change.  Changes in tax law or tax rulings, or changes in interpretations of existing law, could materially affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.  For example, changes to the U.S. tax laws enacted in December 2017 had a significant impact on our tax assets and effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of 2017.  In addition, many countries in Europe, as well as a number of other countries and organizations, have recently proposed or recommended changes to existing tax laws or have enacted new laws that could significantly increase our tax obligations in many countries where we do business or require us to change the manner in which we operate our business.. Risks related to the regulatory environment. We are subject to extensive federal and state regulation, and if we fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could suffer severe criminal or civil sanctions and be required to make significant changes to our operations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. The federal government and all states in which we currently operate regulate various aspects of our business. In particular, our operations are subject to state laws governing, among other things, distribution of medical equipment and certain types of home health activities, and we are required to obtain and maintain licenses in each state to act as a durable medical equipment supplier. Certain of our employees are subject to state laws and regulations governing the professional practices of respiratory therapy.. As a healthcare provider participating in governmental healthcare programs, we are subject to laws directed at preventing fraud and abuse, which subject our marketing, billing, documentation and other practices to strict government scrutiny. To ensure compliance with Medicare, Medicaid and other regulations, government agencies or their contractors often conduct routine audits and request customer records and other documents to support our claims submitted for payment of services rendered. Government. 38. agencies or their contractors also periodically open investigations and obtain information from healthcare providers. Violations of federal and state regulations can result in severe criminal, civil and administrative penalties and sanctions, including debarment, suspension or exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other government reimbursement programs, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Changes in healthcare laws and regulations and new interpretations of existing laws and regulations may affect permissible activities, the relative costs associated with doing business, and reimbursement amounts paid by federal, state and other third-party payors. There have been and will continue to be regulatory initiatives affecting our business and we cannot predict the extent to which future legislation and regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to burdensome and complex billing and record-keeping requirements in order to substantiate our claims for payment under federal, state and commercial healthcare reimbursement programs, and our failure to comply with existing requirements, or changes in those requirements or interpretations thereof, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. We are subject to burdensome and complex billing and record-keeping requirements in order to substantiate our claims for payment under federal, state and commercial healthcare reimbursement programs. Our records also are subject to routine and other reviews by third-party payors, which can result in delays in payments or refunds of paid claims. We could experience a significant increase in pre-payment reviews of our claims by the Durable Medical Equipment Medicare Administrative Contractors, which could cause substantial delays in the collection of our Medicare accounts receivable as well as related amounts due under supplemental insurance plans.. Current law provides for a significant expansion of the government's auditing and oversight of suppliers who care for patients covered by various government healthcare programs. Examples of this expansion include audit programs being implemented by the Durable Medical Equipment Medicare Administrative Contractors, the Zone Program Integrity Contractors, the Recovery Audit Contractors, and the Comprehensive Error Rate Testing contractors, operating under the direction of CMS, and the various state Medicaid Fraud Control Units.. We have been informed by these auditors that healthcare providers and suppliers of certain durable medical equipment product categories are expected to experience further increased scrutiny from these audit programs. When a government auditor ascribes a high billing error rate to one or more of our locations, it generally results in protracted pre-payment claims review, payment delays, refunds and other payments to the government and/or our need to request more documentation from providers than has historically been required. It may also result in additional audit activity in other company locations in that state or Durable Medical Equipment Medicare Administrative Contractors jurisdiction. We cannot currently predict the adverse impact that these audits, methodologies and interpretations might have on our business, financial condition or operating results, but such impact could be material.. We are subject to significant regulation by numerous government agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. We cannot market or commercially distribute our products without obtaining and maintaining necessary regulatory clearances or approvals.. Our Inogen concentrators are medical devices subject to extensive regulation in the United States and in the foreign markets where we distribute our products. The FDA and other U.S. and foreign governmental agencies regulate, among other things, with respect to medical devices:. •  design, development and manufacturing;. •  testing, labeling, content and language of instructions for use and storage;. •  clinical trials;. •  product safety;. •  marketing, sales and distribution;. •  pre-market clearance and approval;. •  record keeping;. •  advertising and promotion;. •  recalls and field safety corrective actions;. 39. •  post-market surveillance, including reporting of deaths or serious injuries and malfunctions that, if they were to recur, could lead to death or serious injury;. •  post-market approval studies; and. •  product import and export.. Before we can market or sell a medical device in the United States, we must obtain either clearance from the FDA under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or the FDCA, or approval of a pre-market approval application from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that a proposed device is \"substantially equivalent\" to a device legally on the market, known as a \"predicate\" device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness, in order to clear the proposed device for marketing.. Our commercial products have received 510(k) clearance by the FDA. If the FDA requires us to go through a lengthier, more rigorous examination for future products or modifications to existing products than we had expected, our product introductions or modifications could be delayed or canceled, which could cause our sales to decline. In addition, the FDA may determine that future products will require the more costly, lengthy and uncertain pre-market approval process. Although we do not currently market any devices under a pre-market approval, the FDA may demand that we obtain a pre-market approval prior to marketing certain future products. In addition, if the FDA disagrees with our determination that a product we currently market is subject to an exemption from pre-market review, the FDA may require us to submit a 510(k) or pre-market approval application in order to continue marketing the product. Further, even with respect to those future products where a pre-market approval is not required, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the 510(k) clearances with respect to those products or do so in a timely fashion.. The FDA can delay, limit or deny clearance or approval of a device for many reasons, including:. •  we may not be able to demonstrate to the FDA's satisfaction that our products are safe and effective for their intended uses;. •  the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to support clearance or approval, where required; and. •  the manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable Quality System Regulations.. Medical devices may only be promoted and sold for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. In addition, even if the FDA has approved or cleared a product, it can take action affecting such product approvals or clearances if serious safety or other problems develop in the marketplace. Delays in obtaining clearances or approvals could adversely affect our ability to introduce new products or modifications to our existing products in a timely manner, which would delay or prevent commercial sales of our products. Additionally, the FDA and other regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers. Regulatory enforcement or inquiries, or other increased scrutiny on us, could affect the perceived safety and performance of our products and dissuade our customers from using our products.. If we modify our FDA cleared devices, we may need to seek additional clearances or approvals, which, if not granted, would prevent us from selling our modified products.. Any modification we make to our Inogen One systems and Inogen At Home system that could significantly affect their safety or effectiveness, or would constitute a major change in intended use, manufacture, design, materials, labeling, or technology requires the submission and clearance of a new 510(k) pre-market notification or, possibly, pre-market approval. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review and disagree with any manufacturer's decision. The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary. We have modified some of our 510(k) cleared products and have determined that in certain instances new 510(k) clearances or pre-market approval are not required. If the FDA disagrees with our determination and requires us to submit new 510(k) notifications or pre-market approval for modifications to our previously cleared products for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties.. 40. If we fail to comply with FDA or state regulatory requirements, we can be subject to enforcement action.. Even after we have obtained regulatory clearance or approval to market a product, we have ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations. The FDA and state authorities have broad enforcement powers. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, which may include any of the following sanctions:. •  adverse publicity, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties;. •  recalls, termination of distribution, or seizure of our products;. •  operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production;. •  delays in the introduction of products into the market;. •  refusal to grant our requests for future 510(k) clearances or approvals of new products, new intended uses, or modifications to exiting products;. •  withdrawals or suspensions of current 510(k) clearances or approvals, resulting in prohibitions on sales of our products; and. •  criminal prosecution.. Any of these sanctions could result in higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated sales and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.. A recall of our products, either voluntarily or at the direction of the FDA or another governmental authority, or the discovery of serious safety issues with our products that leads to corrective actions, could have a significant adverse impact on us.. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design, labeling or manufacture of a product or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. Manufacturers may also, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found or withdraw a product to improve device performance or for other reasons. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Similar regulatory agencies in other countries have similar authority to recall devices because of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture that could endanger health. Any recall would divert management attention and financial resources, could cause the price of our stock to decline and expose us to product liability or other claims and harm our reputation with customers. A recall involving our Inogen concentrators could be particularly harmful to our business, financial and operating results.. We are required to timely report to the FDA any incident in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. Repeated product malfunctions may result in a voluntary or involuntary product recall. Depending on the corrective action we take to redress a product's deficiencies or defects, the FDA may require, or we may decide, that we will need to obtain new approvals or clearances for the device before we may market or distribute the corrected device. Seeking such approvals or clearances may delay our ability to replace the recalled devices in a timely manner. Moreover, if we do not adequately address problems associated with our devices, we may face additional regulatory enforcement action, including adverse publicity, FDA warning letters, product seizure, injunctions, administrative penalties, or civil or criminal fines. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our sales as well as face significant adverse publicity or regulatory consequences, which could harm our business, including our ability to market our products in the future.. Any adverse event involving our products, whether in the United States or abroad, could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection, mandatory recall or other enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business and may harm our reputation and financial results.. If we, our contract manufacturer, or our component manufacturers fail to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted, and our product sales and operating results could suffer.. We, our contract manufacturer, and our component manufacturers are required to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which covers the procedures and documentation of the design, calibration, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our devices. The FDA audits compliance with the QSR through periodic announced and unannounced inspections of manufacturing and other facilities. We and our component manufacturers have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to such inspections. Although we believe our manufacturing facilities and those of our. 41. component manufacturers are in compliance with the QSR, we cannot provide assurance that any future inspection will not result in adverse findings. If we fail to implement timely and appropriate corrective actions that are acceptable to the FDA or if our other manufacturing facilities or those of any of our component manufacturers, contract manufacturers, or suppliers are found to be in violation of applicable laws and regulations, or we or our manufacturers or suppliers fail to take prompt and satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse inspection, the FDA could take enforcement action, including any of the following sanctions:. •  adverse publicity, untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties;. •  customer notifications or repair, replacement, refunds, recall, detention or seizure of our products;. •  operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production;. •  refusing or delaying our requests for 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval of new products or modified products;. •  withdrawing 510(k) clearances or pre-market approvals that have already been granted;. •  refusal to grant export approval for our products; or. •  criminal prosecution.. Any of these sanctions could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and operating results.. Outside the United States, our products and operations are also often required to comply with standards set by industrial standards bodies, such as the International Organization for Standardization, or ISO. Foreign regulatory bodies may evaluate our products or the testing that our products undergo against these standards. The specific standards, types of evaluation and scope of review differ among foreign regulatory bodies. If we fail to adequately comply with any of these standards, a foreign regulatory body may take adverse actions similar to those within the power of the FDA. Any such action may harm our reputation and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The primary regulatory body in Europe is the European Commission, which includes most of the major countries in Europe.  The European Commission has adopted numerous directives and standards regulating the design, manufacture, clinical trial, labeling and adverse event reporting for medical devices.  Devices that comply with the requirements of a relevant directive will be entitled to bear the CE conformity marking, indicating that the device conforms to the essential requirements of the applicable directives and, accordingly, can be commercially distributed throughout Europe.  The method of assessing conformity varies depending on the class of the product, but normally involves a combination of self-assessment by the manufacturer and a third-party assessment by a \"Notified Body.\"  An assessment by a Notified Body of one country within the European Union is required in order for a manufacturer to commercially distribute the product throughout the European Union.. If we fail to obtain and maintain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions, our market opportunities will be limited.. Approximately 22.3% of our revenue was from sales outside of the United States for the year ended December 31, 2017, 24.7% for the year ended December 31, 2016, and 22.2% for the year ended December 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2017, we sold our products in 45 countries outside of the United States through distributors or directly to large \"house\" accounts. In order to market our products in the European Union or other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain and maintain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies from country to country and can involve additional product testing. The time required to obtain approval abroad may be longer than the time required to obtain FDA clearance. The foreign regulatory approval process includes many of the risks associated with obtaining FDA clearance and we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. FDA clearance does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries. However, the failure to obtain clearance or approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative impact on our ability to obtain clearance or approval elsewhere. If we do not obtain or maintain necessary approvals to commercialize our products in markets outside the United States, we may be required to discontinue sales in those countries which would negatively affect our overall market penetration, revenues, results of operation and financial condition.. We may be subject to fines, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or \"off-label\" uses, resulting in damage to our reputation and business.. Our promotional materials and training methods must comply with the FDA and other applicable laws and regulations, including the prohibition of the promotion of a medical device for a use that has not been cleared or approved by the FDA. Physicians may use our products off-label, as the FDA does not restrict or regulate a physician's choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an off-label use that is either false. 42. or misleading, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, which could have an adverse impact on our reputation and financial results.. Failure to comply with the Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH Act, and implementing regulations could result in significant penalties.. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including HIPAA and the HITECH Act, govern the collection, dissemination, security, use and confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information. HIPAA and the HITECH Act require us to comply with standards for the use and disclosure of protected health information within our company and with third parties. The Privacy Standards and Security Standards under HIPAA establish a set of basic national privacy and security standards for the protection of individually identifiable health information by health plans, healthcare clearinghouses and certain healthcare providers, referred to as covered entities, and the business associates with whom such covered entities contract for services. Notably, whereas HIPAA previously directly regulated only these covered entities, the HITECH Act, which was signed into law as part of the stimulus package in February 2009, makes certain of HIPAA's privacy and security standards also directly applicable to covered entities' business associates. As a result, both covered entities and business associates are now subject to significant civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply with Privacy Standards and Security Standards.. HIPAA requires healthcare providers like us to develop and maintain policies and procedures with respect to protected health information that is used or disclosed, including the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information. The HITECH Act expands the notification requirement for breaches of patient-identifiable health information, restricts certain disclosures and sales of patient-identifiable health information and provides a tiered system for civil monetary penalties for HIPAA violations. The HITECH Act also increased the civil and criminal penalties that may be imposed against covered entities, business associates and possibly other persons and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorney fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. Additionally, certain states have adopted comparable privacy and security laws and regulations, some of which may be more stringent than HIPAA.. If we are determined to be out of compliance with existing or new laws and regulations related to patient health information, we could be subject to criminal or civil sanctions. New health information standards, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA, the HITECH Act, congressional action or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we handle healthcare related data and communicate with payors, and the cost of complying with these standards could be significant.. The 2013 final HITECH omnibus rule modifies the breach reporting standard in a manner that will likely make more data security incidents qualify as reportable breaches. Any liability from a failure to comply with the requirements of HIPAA or the HITECH Act could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The costs of complying with privacy and security related legal and regulatory requirements are burdensome and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Regulations requiring the use of \"standard transactions\" for healthcare services issued under HIPAA may negatively impact our profitability and cash flows.. Pursuant to HIPAA, final regulations have been implemented to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the healthcare system by facilitating the electronic exchange of information in certain financial and administrative transactions while protecting the privacy and security of the information exchanged.. The HIPAA transaction standards are complex, and subject to differences in interpretation by third-party payors. For instance, some third-party payors may interpret the standards to require us to provide certain types of information, including demographic information not usually provided to us by physicians. As a result of inconsistent application of transaction standards by third-party payors or our inability to obtain certain billing information not usually provided to us by physicians, we could face increased costs and complexity, a temporary disruption in accounts receivable and ongoing reductions in reimbursements and net revenue. In addition, requirements for additional standard transactions, such as claims attachments or use of a national provider identifier, could prove technically difficult, time-consuming or expensive to implement, all of which could harm our business.. If we fail to comply with state and federal fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback, Stark, false claims and anti-inducement laws, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected.. The federal anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal healthcare programs. Although there are a number of. 43. statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exceptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and any remuneration to or from a prescriber or purchaser of healthcare products or services may be subject to scrutiny if it does not qualify for an exception or safe harbor. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Failure to meet all requirements of a safe harbor is not determinative of a kickback issue but could subject the practice to increased scrutiny by the government.. The \"Stark Law\" prohibits a physician from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to an entity providing \"designated health services,\" which includes durable medical equipment, if the physician or immediate family member of the physician, has an ownership or investment interest in or compensation arrangement with such entity that does not comply with the requirements of a Stark exception. Violation of the Stark Law could result in denial of payment, disgorgement of reimbursements received under a non-compliant arrangement, civil penalties, and exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental programs. Although we believe that we have structured our provider arrangements to comply with current Stark Law requirements, these arrangements may not expressly meet the requirements for applicable exceptions from the law.. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting or causing to be presented a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making or causing to be made a false statement to get a false claim paid. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback and self-referral laws and false claims laws, which apply to items or services, reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of payor. These false claims statutes allow any person to bring suit in the name of the government alleging false and fraudulent claims presented to or paid by the government (or other violations of the statutes) and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. Such suits, known as qui tam actions, have increased significantly in the healthcare industry in recent years. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. In addition, the recently enacted Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal healthcare fraud statutes. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors and exceptions, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Such a challenge, regardless of the outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business, business relationships, reputation, financial condition and results of operations.. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act also imposes annual reporting and disclosure requirements on device and drug manufacturers for \"transfers of value\" made or distributed to licensed physicians and teaching hospitals. Device and drug manufacturers are also required to report and disclose annually any investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $0.15 million per year (and up to an aggregate of $1.0 million per year for \"knowing failures\"), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission.. In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians. Certain states, mandate implementation of compliance programs and/or the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. The shifting compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with different compliance and/or reporting requirements in multiple jurisdictions increase the possibility that a healthcare company many violate one or more of the requirements.. The Federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law prohibits the offering or giving of remuneration to a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary that the person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary's selection of a particular supplier of items or services reimbursable by a Federal or state governmental healthcare program. We sometimes offer customers various discounts and other financial incentives in connection with the sales of our products. While it is our intent to comply with all applicable laws, the government may find that our marketing activities violate the Civil Monetary Penalties Law. If we are found to be in non-compliance, we could be subject to civil money penalties of up to $0.01 million for each wrongful act, assessment of three times the amount claimed for each item or service and exclusion from the federal or state healthcare programs.. On February 3, 2017, the Department of Justice (DOJ) published a final rule that applies an inflation adjustment to civil monetary penalty (CMP) amounts, as mandated by the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015. The new maximum CMP for False Claims Act violations is $0.02 million for civil penalties assessed after August 1, 2016 and whose violations occurred after November 2, 2015.. The scope and enforcement of each of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change in the current environment of healthcare reform, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other government regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including. 44. civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restricting of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring or our operations could harm our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state fraud laws may prove costly.. Foreign governments tend to impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability.. As of December 31, 2017, we sold our products in 45 countries outside the United States through a wholly owned subsidiary, distributors or directly to large \"house\" accounts. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, the pricing of medical devices is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to supply data that compares the cost-effectiveness of our Inogen One and Inogen At Home systems to other available oxygen therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, it may not be profitable to sell our products in certain foreign countries, which would negatively affect the long-term growth of our business.. Our business activities involve the use of hazardous materials, which require compliance with environmental and occupational safety laws regulating the use of such materials. If we violate these laws, we could be subject to significant fines, liabilities or other adverse consequences.. Our research and development programs as well as our manufacturing operations involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. Accordingly, we are subject to international, federal, state and local laws governing the use, handling and disposal of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply in all material respects with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations of each country in which we conduct business, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident or failure to comply with environmental laws, we could be held liable for resulting damages, and any such liability could exceed our insurance coverage.. Risks related to our intellectual property. If we are unable to secure and maintain patent or other intellectual property protection for the intellectual property used in our products, we will lose a significant competitive advantage, which may adversely affect our future profitability.. Our commercial success depends, in part, on obtaining, defending, and maintaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies used in our products. The patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. Furthermore, we might in the future opt to license intellectual property from other parties. If we, or the other parties from whom we would license intellectual property, fail to obtain, defend, and maintain adequate patent or other intellectual property protection for intellectual property used in our products, or if any protection is reduced or eliminated, others could use the intellectual property used in our products, resulting in harm to our competitive business position. In addition, patent and other intellectual property protection may not:. •  prevent our competitors from duplicating our products;. •  prevent our competitors from gaining access to our proprietary information and technology. •  prevent our competitors or other parties from suing us for alleged infringement; or. •  permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage.. Any of our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful should one or more of our patents be challenged for any reason. If our patent claims are rendered invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope, the patent coverage afforded our products could be impaired, which could make our products less competitive.. As of December 31, 2017, we have seven pending U.S. patent applications, thirty-one issued U.S. patents and one issued Canadian patent relating to the design and construction of our oxygen concentrators and our intelligent delivery technology. We cannot specify which of these patents individually or as a group will permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. U.S. patents and patent applications may be subject to interference proceedings, and U.S. patents may be subject to reexamination, inter partes review, post-grant review, and derivation proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Foreign patents may be subject to opposition or comparable proceedings in the corresponding foreign patent offices. Any of these proceedings could result in loss of the patent or denial of the patent application, or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or patent. 45. application. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws may also diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our protection. Interference, reexamination, inter partes review, defense, and opposition proceedings may be costly and time consuming, and we, or the other parties from whom we might potentially license intellectual property, may be unsuccessful in defending against such proceedings. Thus, any patents that we own or might license may provide limited or no protection against competitors. In addition, our pending patent applications and those we may file in the future may have claims narrowed during prosecution or may not result in patents being issued. Even if any of our pending or future applications are issued, they may not provide us with any competitive advantage or adequate protection from allegations of infringement, whether valid or frivolous, which may result in the incurrence of material defense costs. Our patents and patent applications are directed to particular aspects of our products. Other parties may develop and obtain patent protection for more effective technologies, designs or methods for oxygen therapy. If these developments were to occur, it would likely have an adverse effect on our sales. Our ability to develop additional patentable technology is also uncertain.. Non-payment or delay in payment of patent fees or annuities, whether intentional or unintentional, may also result in the loss of patents or patent rights important to our business. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to other parties. In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against other parties, including government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, particularly in the field of medical products and procedures.. Our products could infringe or appear to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may lead to patent and other intellectual property litigation that could itself be costly, could result in the payment of substantial damages or royalties, prevent us from using technology that is essential to our products, and/or force us to discontinue selling our products.. The medical device industry in general has been characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings regarding patent infringement and intellectual property rights. Our competitors hold a significant number of patents relating to oxygen therapy devices and products. Third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. For example, Separation Design Group IP Holdings, LLC (SDGIP) filed a lawsuit against us on October 23, 2015 in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. SDGIP alleged that we willfully infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 8,894,751 and 9,199,055, both of which are titled \"Ultra Rapid Cycle Portable Oxygen Concentrator.\" SDGIP also alleged misappropriation of trade secrets and breach of contract stemming from a meeting in September 2010. SDGIP sought to recover damages (including compensatory and treble damages), costs and expenses (including attorneys' fees), pre-judgment and post-judgment interest, and other relief that the Court deem proper. SDGIP also sought a permanent injunction against us. Additionally, CAIRE, Inc. (CAIRE) filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia against us on September 12, 2016. CAIRE alleged that we infringed U.S. Patent No. 6,949,133, entitled \"Portable Oxygen Concentrator.\" While we resolved our dispute with SDGIP in October 2017 and CAIRE in December 2017, if we fail in defending against similar claims brought in the future we could be subject to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief against us, and we cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuit. An adverse determination or protracted defense costs of pending lawsuits could have a material effect on our business and operating results.. From time to time, we have also commenced litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. For example, we previously pursued litigation against Inova Labs Inc. (a subsidiary of ResMed Corp.) for infringement of two of our patents seeking damages, injunctive relief, costs, and attorneys' fees.  While we resolved our dispute with Inova Labs in June 2016, an adverse decision in any other legal action could limit our ability to assert our intellectual property rights, limit the value of our technology or otherwise negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property may have occurred or may occur in the future. Although we have taken steps to minimize the risk of this occurring, any such failure to identify unauthorized use and otherwise adequately protect our intellectual property would adversely affect our business. Moreover, if we are required to commence litigation, whether as a plaintiff or defendant as has occurred with Inova Labs, SDGIP, and CAIRE, not only will this be time-consuming, but we will also be forced to incur significant costs and divert our attention and efforts of our employees, which could, in turn, result in lower revenue and higher expenses.. We cannot provide assurance that our products or methods do not infringe or appear to infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties and if our business is successful, the possibility may increase that others will assert infringement claims against us whether valid or frivolous.. Determining whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, defense costs and the outcome of a patent litigation action are often uncertain. We have not conducted an extensive search of patents issued or assigned to other parties,. 46. including our competitors, and no assurance can be given that patents containing claims covering or appear to cover our products, parts of our products, technology or methods do not exist, have not been filed or could not be filed or issued. Because of the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our technical areas, our competitors or other parties may assert that our products and the methods we employ in the use of our products are covered by U.S. or foreign patents held by them. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue and because publication schedules for pending applications may vary by jurisdiction and some companies opt not to publish their patent applications, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware and which may result in issued patents that our current or future products infringe or appear to infringe. Also, because the claims of published patent applications can change between publication and patent grant, there may be published patent applications that may ultimately issue with claims that we infringe. There could also be existing patents that one or more of our products or parts may infringe and of which we are unaware. As the number of competitors in the market for oxygen products and as the number of patents issued in this area grows, the possibility of patent infringement claims against us increases. In certain situations, we may determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a party's products or patents in litigation or other proceedings, including patent reexaminations, or inter partes reviews. As a result, we may become involved in unwanted protracted litigation that could be costly, result in diversion of management's attention, require us to pay damages and/or licensing royalties and force us to discontinue selling our products.. Infringement and other intellectual property claims and proceedings brought against us, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and harm to our reputation. Such claims and proceedings can also distract and divert management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of the business. We cannot be certain that we will successfully defend against allegations of infringement of patents and intellectual property rights of others. In the event that we become subject to a patent infringement or other intellectual property lawsuit and if the other party's patents or other intellectual property were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe the other party's patents or violate the terms of a license to which we are a party, we could be required to do one or more of the following:. •  cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the asserted intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenue;. •  pay damages for past use of the asserted intellectual property, which may be substantial;. •  obtain a license from the holder of the asserted intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable royalty terms, if at all, and which could reduce profitability; and. •  redesign or rename, in the case of trademark claims, our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and could be costly and time-consuming if it is possible to do so.. If we are unable to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of trade secrets, unpatented know-how and other proprietary information, our ability to compete will be harmed.. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, confidentiality agreements and other contractual provisions and technical security measures to protect certain aspects of our technology, especially where we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. We require our employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements in connection with their employment or consulting relationships with us. We also require our employees and consultants to disclose and assign to us all inventions conceived during the term of their employment or engagement while using our property or that relate to our business. We also require our corporate partners, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers, advisors and others with access to our confidential information to sign confidentiality agreements. We also have taken precautions to initiate reasonable safeguards to protect our information technology systems. However, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard our proprietary intellectual property and conflicts may, nonetheless, arise regarding ownership of inventions. Such conflicts may lead to the loss or impairment of our intellectual property or to expensive litigation to defend our rights against competitors who may be better funded and have superior resources. Our employees, consultants, contractors, outside clinical collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to competitors. In addition, confidentiality agreements may be unenforceable or may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure. Enforcing a claim that a third-party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to copy or reverse engineer certain aspects of our products that we consider proprietary, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. As a result, other parties may be able to use our proprietary technology or information, and our ability to compete in the market would be harmed.. \"Inogen,\" \"Inogen One,\" \"Inogen One G2,\" \"Inogen One G3,\" \"G4,\" \"Oxygenation,\" \"Live Life in Moments, not Minutes,\" \"Never Run Out of Oxygen,\" \"Oxygen Therapy on Your Terms,\" \"Oxygen.Anytime.Anywhere,\" \"Reclaim Your Independence,\" \"Intelligent Delivery Technology,\" \"Inogen At Home,\" and the Inogen design are registered trademarks with the United States Patent. 47. and Trademark Office of Inogen, Inc. We own trademark registrations for the mark \"Inogen\" in Australia, Canada, South Korea, Mexico, Europe (European Union registration), and Japan. We own a trademark registration for the mark \"<U+30A4><U+30CE><U+30B8><U+30A7><U+30F3>\" in Japan. We own trademark registrations for the mark \"Inogen One\" in Australia, Canada, China, South Korea, Mexico, and Europe (European Union registration). We own a trademark registration for the mark \"Satellite Conserver\" in Canada. We own a trademark registration for the mark \"Inogen At Home\" in Europe (European Union Registration). We own trademark registrations for the mark \"G4\" in Europe (European Union registration) and the United Kingdom. Other service marks, trademarks, and trade names referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners.. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that our employees, agents or we have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of other companies.. Some of our employees and consultants were previously employed at or contracted with other medical device companies focused on the development of oxygen therapy products, including our competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or agents have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs, damage to our reputation and be a distraction to management.. Risks related to being a public company. We will incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives and corporate governance practices.. As a public company, especially now that we are no longer an \"emerging growth company,\" we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules enforced by the Public Companies Oversight Board (PCAOB) subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Select Market impose numerous requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Also, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to compliance with these laws and regulations. These requirements have increased and will continue to increase our legal, accounting, external audit and financial compliance costs and have made and will continue to make some activities more time consuming and costly. For example, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or our board committees or as executive officers.. Overall, we estimate that our incremental costs resulting from operating as a public company, including compliance with these rules and regulations, may be between $1.5 million and $3.0 million per year. However, these rules and regulations are often subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies and public accounting firms are subject to PCAOB compliance audits. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we assess and document the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. In particular, Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404(a), requires us to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Section 404(b) of Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404(b), also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm is therefore required to undertake an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2016, and the cost of our compliance with Section 404(b) is higher. Our compliance with applicable provisions of Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues as we implement additional corporate governance practices and comply with reporting requirements.. Furthermore, investor perceptions of our company may suffer if deficiencies are found, and this could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Irrespective of compliance with Section 404, any failure of our internal control over financial reporting. 48. could have a material adverse effect on our stated operating results and harm our reputation. If we are unable to implement these requirements effectively or efficiently, it could harm our operations, financial reporting, or financial results and could result in an adverse opinion on our internal controls from our independent registered public accounting firm.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could cause our investors to lose confidence in us and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If our internal controls are not effective, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, requires that we maintain internal control over financial reporting that meets applicable standards. We may err in the design, operation or documentation of our controls, and all internal control systems, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because there are inherent limitations in all control systems, there can be no absolute assurance that all control issues have been or will be detected. If we are unable, or are perceived as unable, to produce reliable financial reports due to internal control deficiencies, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and operating results, which could result in a negative market reaction.. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal controls and procedures on a quarterly basis. Additionally, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2016, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. Our remediation efforts may not enable us to avoid a material weakness in the future. Additionally, to comply with the requirements of being a public company, we may need to undertake various actions, such as implementing new internal controls and procedures and hiring accounting or internal audit staff, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We have reported material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting in the past. For example, as we disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2014, and our Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, 2015, June 30, 2015 and September 30, 2015, we identified a material weakness with respect to internal control over the review of sales order documentation supporting our direct-to-customer sales and rentals prior to revenue recognition. We commenced measures to remediate this material weakness during the first quarter of 2015, and remediation was completed as of December 31, 2015.. Although prior material weaknesses have been remediated, we cannot assure you that our internal controls will continue to operate properly or that our financial statements will be free from error. There may be undetected material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, as a result of which we may not detect financial statement errors on a timely basis. Moreover, in the future we may implement new offerings and engage in business transactions, such as acquisitions, reorganizations or implementation of new information systems that could require us to develop and implement new controls and could negatively affect our internal control over financial reporting and result in material weaknesses.. If we identify new material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, if we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we may be late with the filing of our periodic reports, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. As a result of such failures, we could also become subject to investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities, and become subject to litigation from investors and stockholders, which could harm our reputation, financial condition or divert financial and management resources from our core business.. 49. Risks related to our common stock. We expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly, you may have difficulty selling your shares, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Our stock is currently traded on NASDAQ, but we can provide no assurance that we will be able to maintain an active trading market on NASDAQ or any other exchange in the future. If an active trading market does not develop, you may have difficulty selling any of our shares of common stock that you buy. In addition, the trading price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include:. •  actual or anticipated quarterly variation in our results of operations or the results of our competitors;. •  announcements of secondary offerings;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of new commercial products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments;. •  issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations for our stock;. •  developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights;. •  commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation;. •  market conditions in the oxygen therapy market;. •  reimbursement or legislative changes in the oxygen therapy market;. •  failure to complete significant sales;. •  manufacturing disruptions that could occur if we were unable to successfully expand our production in our current or an alternative facility;. •  any future sales of our common stock or other securities;. •  any major change to the composition of our board of directors or management;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. •  the other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section; and. •  general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets.. The stock market in general and market prices for the securities of technology-based companies like ours in particular, have from time to time experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of the underlying companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In several recent situations where the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit against us, the defense and disposition of the lawsuit could be costly and divert the time and attention of our management and harm our operating results.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We will not have any control of the analysts or the content and opinions included in their reports. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our stock or issue other unfavorable commentary or research. If one or more equity research analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Future sales of shares could cause our stock price to decline.. Our stock price could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.. 50. As of December 31, 2017, one holder of approximately 3.5 million shares, or approximately 16.9%, of our outstanding shares, has rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the sale of their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We have also registered the offer and sale of all shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity compensation plans.. In addition, in the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities convertible into common stock in connection with a financing, acquisition, litigation settlement, and employee arrangements or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and could cause our stock price to decline.. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders will continue to have substantial control over us and could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including changes of control.. As of December 31, 2017, our executive officers, directors and stockholders who owned more than 5% of our outstanding common stock and their respective affiliates beneficially owned or controlled approximately 55.1% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, these executive officers, directors and stockholders who owned more than 5% of our outstanding common stock and their respective affiliates, acting as a group, have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change of control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors' perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our common stock.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions that:. •  authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock;. •  require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent;. •  specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the Chairman of the board of directors, or the Chief Executive Officer;. •  establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder approvals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors;. •  establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, Class I, Class II and Class III, with each class serving staggered three year terms;. •  provide that our directors may be removed only for cause;. •  provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum;. •  specify that no stockholder is permitted to cumulate votes at any election of directors; and. •  require a super-majority of votes to amend certain of the above-mentioned provisions.. 51. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us.. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date and currently intend to retain our future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, we may become subject to covenants under future debt arrangements that place restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock is expected to be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future."
