[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, before deciding whether an investment in our common stock is suitable for you. The risk factors described below are not the only ones we face. There may be other risks and uncertainties that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our business is cyclical and can be negatively impacted by prolonged economic downturns or tightening in the financial markets that reduce the level of construction activity and demand for our products.. Demand for our products is cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in the economy and in the financial markets. Our products are sold primarily to manufacturers of concrete products that are used for a broad range of nonresidential and residential construction applications. Demand for our products is driven by the level of construction activity, which tends to be correlated with conditions in the general economy as well as other factors beyond our control. Tightening in the financial markets could adversely impact demand for our products by reducing the availability of financing to our customers and the construction industry as a whole and increasing the risk of payment defaults on our outstanding customer balances. Future prolonged periods of economic weakness or reduced availability of financing could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 6. Table of Contents. Our business can be negatively impacted by reductions in the amount and duration of government funding for infrastructure projects that reduce the level of construction activity and demand for our products.. Certain of our products are used in the construction of highways, bridges and other infrastructure projects that are funded by federal, state and local governments. Reductions in the amount of funding for such projects or the period for which it is provided could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations that may impact our cash flows.. Our shipments are typically lower in the first and second fiscal quarters due to the unfavorable impact of winter weather on construction activity during these periods and customer plant shutdowns associated with holidays. As a result, our cash flows may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to these seasonal factors.. Demand for our products is highly variable and difficult to forecast due to our minimal backlog and unanticipated changes that can occur in customer order patterns or inventory levels.. Demand for our products is highly variable. The short lead times for customer orders and minimal backlog that characterize our business make it difficult to forecast the future level of demand for our products. In some cases, unanticipated softening in demand can be exacerbated by inventory reduction measures pursued by our customers, which may cause significant fluctuations in our sales, profitability and cash flows.. Our financial results can be negatively impacted by the volatility in the cost and availability of our primary raw material, hot-rolled carbon steel wire rod.. The primary raw material used to manufacture our products is hot-rolled carbon steel wire rod, which we purchase from both domestic and foreign suppliers. We do not use derivative commodity instruments to hedge our exposure to changes in the price of wire rod as such instruments are currently unavailable in the financial markets. Beginning in fiscal 2004, a tightening of supply in the rod market together with fluctuations in the raw material costs of rod producers resulted in increased price volatility which has continued through fiscal 2017. In response, wire rod producers have resorted to increasing the frequency of price adjustments, typically on a monthly basis as well as unilaterally changing the terms of prior commitments.. Although changes in our wire rod costs and selling prices tend to be correlated, we may be unable to fully recover increased rod costs through higher selling prices during weaker market environments, which would reduce our earnings and cash flows. Additionally, when raw material costs decline, our financial results may be negatively impacted if the selling prices for our products decrease to an even greater extent and if we are consuming higher cost material from inventory.. Our financial results can also be significantly impacted if raw material supplies are inadequate to satisfy our purchasing requirements. In addition, trade actions by domestic wire rod producers against offshore suppliers can have a considerable impact on the availability and cost of imported wire rod. The imposition of anti-dumping or countervailing duty margins by the DOC against exporting countries can have the effect of reducing or eliminating their activity in the domestic market, which is of increasing significance in view of the reductions in domestic wire rod production capacity that have occurred in recent years. If we were unable to obtain adequate and timely delivery of our raw material requirements, we may be unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or operate our manufacturing facilities in an efficient manner, which could result in lost sales and higher operating costs.. Foreign competition could adversely impact our financial results.. Our PC strand business is subject to offshore import competition on an ongoing basis in that domestic production capacity is insufficient to satisfy domestic demand in most market environments. If we are unable to purchase raw materials and achieve manufacturing costs that are competitive with those of foreign producers, or if the margin and return requirements of foreign producers are substantially lower, our market share and profit margins could be negatively impacted. In response to irrationally-priced import competition from offshore PC strand suppliers, we have pursued trade cases when necessary as a means of ensuring that foreign producers were complying with the applicable trade laws and regulations. These trade cases have resulted in the imposition of duties which have had the effect of limiting the continued participation of certain countries in the domestic market. Trade law enforcement is critical to our ability to maintain our competitive position against foreign PC strand producers that engage in unlawful trade practices.. 7. Table of Contents. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to unexpected equipment failures, operational interruptions and casualty losses.. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to risks that may limit our ability to manufacture and sell our products, including unexpected equipment failures, operational interruptions and catastrophic losses due to other unanticipated events such as fires, explosions, accidents, adverse weather conditions and transportation interruptions. For example, during fiscal 2017, operations at our Texas and Florida plants were temporarily curtailed due to flooding and power outages related to hurricanes Harvey and Irma. Any such equipment failures or events can subject us to material plant shutdowns, periods of reduced production or unexpected downtime. Furthermore, the resolution of certain operational interruptions may require significant capital expenditures. Although our insurance coverage could offset the losses or expenditures relating to some of these events, our results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted to the extent that such claims were not covered or only partially covered by our insurance.. We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems that are susceptible to certain risks, including cybersecurity breaches and data leaks, which could adversely impact our business.. Our increasing reliance on technology systems and infrastructure heightens our potential vulnerability to system failure and malfunction, breakdowns due to natural disasters, human error, unauthorized access, power loss and other unforeseen events. Data privacy breaches by employees and others with or without authorized access to our systems poses risks that sensitive data may be permanently lost or leaked to the public or other unauthorized persons. With the growing use and rapid evolution of technology, not limited to cloud-based computing and mobile devices, there are additional risks of unintentional data leaks. There is also the risk of the theft of confidential information, intentional vandalism, industrial espionage and a variety of cyber-attacks that could compromise our internal technology system and infrastructure or result in data leaks in-house or at our third-party providers and business partners. Failures of technology or related systems, or an improper release of confidential information, could adversely impact our business or subject us to unexpected liabilities.. Our financial results could be adversely impacted by the escalation of our operating costs.. Consistent with the experience of other employers, our medical and workers’ compensation costs have increased substantially in recent years and are expected to continue to rise. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“ACA”) will have a significant impact on employers, health care providers, insurers and others associated with the health care industry and increase our employee health care costs. This legislation requires certain large employers like us to offer health care benefits to full-time employees or face potential annual penalties. To avoid these penalties, employers must offer health benefits providing a minimum level of coverage and limit the amount that employees are charged for the coverage. Although certain provisions of the ACA were waived in January 2017, others are anticipated to become effective at various dates over the next several years and many of the regulations and guidance pertaining to the law have not been implemented. Due to the breadth and complexity of the ACA, the lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance and the phased-in nature of the requirement, we cannot predict the future effect of this law on our results. Any significant increases in the costs attributable to our self-insured health and workers’ compensation plans could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In addition, increasing prices for natural gas, electricity, fuel and consumables would adversely affect our manufacturing and distribution costs. For most of our business, we incur the fuel costs and surcharges associated with the delivery of products to our customers. Although we have previously implemented numerous measures to offset the impact of increases in these costs, there can be no assurance that such actions will be effective. If we are unable to pass these additional costs through by raising our selling prices, our financial results could be adversely impacted.. Our financial results could be adversely impacted by the impairment of goodwill.. Our balance sheet includes intangible assets, including goodwill and other separately identifiable assets related to prior acquisitions, and we may acquire additional intangible assets in connection with future acquisitions. We are required to review goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if certain indicators of permanent impairment arise such as, among other things, a decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a reduction in our projected operating results and cash flows. If our review indicates that goodwill has been impaired, the impaired portion would have to be written-off during that period which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Our capital resources may not be adequate to provide for our capital investment and maintenance expenditures if we were to experience a substantial downturn in our financial performance.. Our operations are capital intensive and require substantial recurring expenditures for the routine maintenance of our equipment and facilities. Although we expect to finance our business requirements through internally generated funds or from borrowings under our $100.0 million revolving credit facility, we cannot provide any assurances these resources will be sufficient to support our business. A material adverse change in our operations or financial condition could limit our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility, which could further adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. Any significant future acquisitions could require additional financing from external sources that may not be available on favorable terms, which could adversely impact our operations, growth, financial condition and results of operations.. 8. Table of Contents. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital investments and operating costs.. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to the protection of the environment that could require substantial increases in capital investments and operating costs. These laws and regulations, which are constantly evolving, are becoming increasingly stringent and the ultimate impact of compliance is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision.. Our stock price can be volatile, often in connection with matters beyond our control.. Equity markets in the U.S. have been increasingly volatile in recent years. During fiscal 2017, our common stock traded as high as $42.81 and as low as $22.50. There are numerous factors that could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including: variations in our financial results; changes in our business outlook and expectations for the construction industry; changes in market valuations of companies in our industry; and announcements by us, our competitors or industry participants that may be perceived to impact our financial results."
