[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We are largely dependent on the commercial success of our two approved products, and although we have generated revenue and profit from sales of these products, we may not be able to continue to be profitable.. We anticipate that in the near term our ability to maintain profitability will depend upon the continued commercial success of our two main approved products, SUBSYS® and SYNDROS®. In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in this section, our ability to continue to generate revenues from these products will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to:. •  achievement of broad market acceptance and coverage by third-party payers for our products;. •  the effectiveness of our efforts in marketing and selling our products;. 25. Table of Contents. •  our and our contract manufacturers' ability to successfully manufacture commercial quantities of our products at acceptable cost levels and in compliance with regulatory requirements;. •  our ability to maintain a cost-efficient commercial organization and, to the extent we seek to do so, successfully partner with additional third parties;. •  our ability to successfully defend, expand and maintain intellectual property protection for our products;. •  the efficacy and safety of our products; and. •  our ability to comply with regulatory requirements.. The continuing and heightened publicity surrounding the national opioid epidemic continues to result in heightened sensitivity by many health care professionals to prescribe, and pharmacies to dispense, opioids. In part, this sensitivity by health care professionals and pharmacies is the result of third-party payers, such as insurance companies, and regulatory and government agencies increasingly scrutinizing the indications and uses for which health care professionals are prescribing, and pharmacies are dispensing, opioids. Other high-profile initiatives, such as President Trump's declaration of the opioid crisis as a public health emergency will likely add to this sensitivity. Moreover, ongoing state and federal investigations into our sales, marketing and other commercial practices and developments and media reports that may arise in connection with such investigations may negatively affect our relationships with health care professionals and pharmacies and their prescribing or dispensing habits.  Furthermore, widespread litigation focused on opioids, including multi-district litigation, has focused an enormous amount of scrutiny on the prescribing of opioids.  Consequently, these current and potential future events have affected, and will likely continue to affect, the manner in which, and the situations when, SUBSYS® is being prescribed, dispensed and approved for coverage.. If SUBSYS®, SYNDROS®, or any of our product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval, do not maintain broad market acceptance or coverage by third-party payers, the revenues that we generate from these products will be limited.. The commercial success of SUBSYS®, SYNDROS® and any product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities, will depend upon the continued acceptance of these products by physicians, patients, health care payers and the medical community. Coverage and reimbursement of our approved products by third-party payers is also necessary for commercial success. The degree of market acceptance of SUBSYS®, SYNDROS® and any other product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval will depend on a number of factors, including:. •  patients' ability to obtain sufficient third-party payer coverage and reimbursement;. •  our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy;. •  acceptance by physicians and patients of the product as a safe and effective treatment;. •  the relative convenience and ease of administration;. •  the prevalence and severity of adverse side effects;. •  limitations or warnings contained in a product's FDA-approved labeling;. •  the clinical indications for which the product is approved;. •  the DEA scheduling classification for controlled substances, such as our dronabinol-based and fentanyl-based products;. •  availability and perceived advantages of alternative treatments;. •  any negative publicity related to our or our competitors' products;. •  the effectiveness of our or any current or future collaborators' sales, marketing and distribution strategies;. •  pricing and cost effectiveness;. 26. Table of Contents. •  the willingness of patients to pay out of pocket in the absence of third-party payer coverage; and. •  our ability to maintain compliance with regulatory requirements.. For example, while we believe our sublingual spray delivery method for SUBSYS® appeals to patients, some patients may not view our sublingual spray device as easy to administer, safe and effective, and otherwise may not react favorably to sublingual delivery. In accordance with the REMS protocol for all TIRF products, physicians are advised to begin patients at the lowest dose available for the applicable TIRF product, which for SUBSYS® is 100 mcg. If patients do not experience pain relief at initial low-dose prescriptions of SUBSYS®, they or their physicians may conclude that SUBSYS® is ineffective in general and may discontinue use of SUBSYS® before titrating to an effective dose. In addition, many third-party payers require usage and failure on cheaper generic versions of Actiq® prior to providing reimbursement for SUBSYS® and other branded TIRF products, which limits SUBSYS®' use as a first-line treatment option.. In addition, products used to treat and manage pain, especially in the case of controlled substances, are from time to time subject to negative publicity, including illegal use, overdoses, abuse, diversion, serious injury and death. These events have led to heightened regulatory scrutiny and in certain circumstances the FDA might even consider action to remove or revoke a product's approval. Controlled substances are classified by the DEA as Schedule I through V substances, with Schedule I substances being prohibited for sale in the United States, Schedule II substances considered to present the highest risk of abuse and Schedule V substances being considered to present the lowest relative risk of abuse. SUBSYS® contains fentanyl, an opioid, and is regulated as a Schedule II controlled substance, and despite the strict regulations on the marketing, distributing, prescribing and dispensing of such substances, illicit use and abuse of controlled substances is well-documented. Thus, the marketing of SUBSYS®, SYNDROS® and, if approved, our product candidates that contain controlled substances, may generate public controversy that may adversely affect market acceptance of SUBSYS®, SYNDROS® and, if approved, such product candidates.. Our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payers on the benefits of SUBSYS®, SYNDROS® and any of our product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities, and gain broad market acceptance requires significant resources and may not continue to be successful. If our products do not continue to receive an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, third-party payers and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from these products to be profitable.. In addition, fentanyl and dronabinol treatments can be costly to third-party payers and patients. Accordingly, hospitals and physicians may resist prescribing our products and third-party payers and patients may not purchase our products due to cost.. Furthermore, the potential market for SYNDROS® may not expand as we anticipate or may even decline based on numerous factors, including the introduction of superior alternative products and regulatory action negatively impacting the dronabinol market. Moreover, there is no guarantee that introduction of SYNDROS® will result in expansion of the dronabinol market or permit us to gain share in that market or maintain or increase any market share we may capture. New dronabinol products that we introduce could potentially replace SYNDROS®, thus not impacting the overall size of the market or increasing our overall share of that market. If we are unable to properly and compliantly expand the market for the medical use of dronabinol or gain, maintain or increase market share in that market, this failure would have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute on our business plan and ability to generate revenue.. The unpredictability and regulation surrounding reimbursement on SUBSYS® and SYNDROS® may affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our sales of, and revenue from, SUBSYS® and SYNDROS® depend in significant part on the coverage and reimbursement policies of third-party payers, including government payers such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private health insurers. All third-party payers are sensitive to the cost of drugs and consistently implement efforts to control these costs, which efforts include, but are not limited to, establishing excluded or preferred drug lists. SUBSYS® has been, and will likely continue to be, subject to these restrictions and impediments from third-party payers, particularly PBMs and private health insurers. These PBMs, which administer prescription drug benefits for. 27. Table of Contents. employers and health plans and runs large mail-order pharmacies, have significant influence in the insurance industry. While most PBMs have an exception process that physicians may pursue to have an off-formulary, medically necessary drug covered for patients, being placed on an exclusion list makes it difficult for many patients covered through a PBM administered plan to have SUBSYS® and SYNDROS® covered by insurance.  In the future, we may not be able to work with other PBMs to evaluate price increases and to communicate with managed care and health-system decision-makers to ensure a balanced approach which takes into account the clinical performance and efficacy of our products. Moreover, in the United States, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of state and federal proposals that limit the amount that third-party payers may pay to reimburse the cost of drugs, particularly for state and federal government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as managed care providers and private insurance plans. We believe the increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of SUBSYS® and SYNDROS®. Our ability to generate revenue is affected by the availability of third-party reimbursement for SUBSYS® and SYNDROS® and our results of operations will be negatively affected if we fail to manage adequate reimbursement levels for SUBSYS® and SYNDROS® from such third-party payers.. In addition, we outsource administrative reimbursement support assistance for patients, which function is critical to patients obtaining insurance coverage in connection with our products. The patient support assistance provided by third-parties, including specialty pharmacies, is subject to extensive and complex federal and state laws and varied third-party payers standards, procedures, processes and conditions.  These third parties' compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards is expensive and time consuming and substantial governmental resources exist to enforce and prosecute these applicable laws, regulations and standards and companies that violate such laws, regulations and standards may face substantial penalties. The potential sanctions include significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages and fines and exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. Because of the breadth of these laws and the lack of extensive legal guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions, it is possible that some of these third parties' business activities could be subject to challenge or penalty under one or more of these laws and could materially affect our business in some way, including potentially vicarious liability if our employees violate our existing policies and procedures.  Moreover, we may be subject to liability and regulatory sanctions in connection with the prior actions of former employees that operated in our patient service hub before we began outsourcing such function. Such aforementioned potential events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. The manner by which we utilize our commercial sales force has evolved over time and may continue to evolve in the future.  We or our collaborators may not be successful in executing sales and marketing strategies for SUBSYS®, SYNDROS®, or any additional product candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval. If such sales and marketing strategies are not successful, we may not be able to maintain or increase our revenues.. Our commercial organization including sales, marketing, managed markets, trade and distribution functions, which is now focused exclusively on marketing and selling SUBSYS® and SYNDROS® has evolved significantly since the launch of our first commercial product in March 2012. Our commercial organization has not in the past, and may not in the future, perform over time as we currently anticipate. To the extent our commercial organization does not perform over time as we currently anticipate, we will need to consider alternatives that include significantly downsizing or eliminating our commercial sales force or entering into arrangements with third parties to market and sell our products in the United States or foreign territories. Any third-party arrangement would likely result in significantly greater sales and marketing expenses or lower revenues than our current estimates and there can be no assurance that any current or future strategy will be successful.. We may either increase or decrease the size of our sales force in the future based upon market conditions and actual sales performance, as well as in the event that we obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. In addition, we could lose sales personnel, and the performance of our sales personnel as measured by actual sales has been, from time to time, and may in the future be disappointing.. 28. Table of Contents. Our business is subject to volatility and fluctuations in the number of employees we have across our enterprise.  We may need to adjust the size and complexity of our organization in the future, depending upon the strategies we attempt to implement.. Our company has evolved significantly since the launch of our first branded product in March 2012.  Management and personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate and/or appropriate to support our business plan.. Our need to effectively manage our operations and various business objectives requires that we adjust to ongoing challenges and needs and may require us to do one or more of the following:. •  continue to improve our operational, financial, management and regulatory compliance controls and reporting systems and procedures;. •  attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees;. •  manage our commercialization activities for SUBSYS® and SYNDROS® effectively and in a cost-effective manner;. •  manage our clinical trials effectively;. •  manage our internal dronabinol production operations effectively and in a cost effective manner;. •  manage our development efforts effectively while carrying out our contractual obligations to contractors and other third parties; and. •  continue to improve and expand our facilities.. In addition, historically, we have utilized and continue to utilize the services of part-time outside consultants to perform a number of tasks for us, including tasks related to compliance programs, clinical trial management, regulatory affairs, formulation development and other drug development functions. Our growth strategy may also entail expanding our use of consultants to implement these and other tasks going forward. Because we rely on consultants for certain functions of our business, we will need to be able to effectively manage these consultants to ensure that they successfully carry out their contractual obligations and meet expected deadlines. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our existing consultants or find other competent outside consultants, as needed, on economically reasonable terms, or at all. If we are not able to effectively manage our organization including our use of consultants, we may be unable to successfully implement the tasks necessary to effectively execute on our planned research, development and commercialization activities and, accordingly, may not achieve our research, development and commercialization goals.. We may encounter manufacturing failures that could impede or delay commercial production of SYNDROS® or the preclinical and clinical development or regulatory approval of our product candidates.. Any failure in our internal manufacturing operations could cause us to be unable to meet demand for SYNDROS® and lose potential revenue, delay the preclinical and clinical development or regulatory approval of our product candidates, and harm our reputation. Our internal manufacturing operations may encounter difficulties involving, among other things, production yields, regulatory compliance, contamination, quality control and quality assurance, obtaining DEA quotas which allow us to produce certain materials in the quantities needed to execute on our business plan, and shortages of qualified personnel. Our ability to support our existing product and our product candidates, could be impeded, delayed, limited or denied if we are unable to maintain the approval of our manufacturing processes and facilities. In addition, we have limited experience producing SYNDROS® in commercial quantities and may encounter difficulties with continuing to manufacture commercial quantities of SYNDROS® or the quantities of materials needed for our preclinical studies or clinical trials. Such difficulties could result in a delay in the commercial launch of our product candidates and cause delays in our preclinical studies, clinical trials and regulatory submissions.. We must comply with cGMPs enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program and review of submitted technical information. In addition, we must obtain and maintain necessary DEA and state registrations, and must establish and maintain processes to assure compliance with DEA and state requirements governing, among other things, the storage, handling, security, recordkeeping and reporting for controlled substances. We must also apply for and receive a quota for dronabinol. Any failure to comply with these requirements may result in penalties, including fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approvals, product. 29. Table of Contents. seizure or recall, operating restrictions, criminal prosecutions or withdrawal of product approvals, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. If the safety of any product or product candidate or component is compromised due to a failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to successfully commercialize or obtain regulatory approval for the affected product or product candidate, and we may be held liable for any injuries sustained as a result. Any of these factors could cause a delay or termination of commercialization, preclinical studies and clinical trials, regulatory submissions or approvals of our products or product candidates, entail higher costs or result in our being unable to effectively commercialize our approved products. Certain changes in our manufacturing processes or procedures, including a change in the location where the material is manufactured, generally require prior FDA, or foreign regulatory authority, review and/or approval. We may need to conduct additional preclinical studies and clinical trials to support approval of such changes. This review and approval process may be costly and time-consuming, and could impede, delay, limit or prevent commercialization of a product.. We have expanded our SYNDROS® production capacity by constructing a second facility. We may encounter a number of challenges relating to the management and operation of such a facility, and we may never realize a return on our investment.. We have expanded our SYNDROS® production capacity by constructing a second facility designed to meet our expected future dronabinol API supply needs. The construction of the second facility has required significant capital expenditures and has resulted in significantly increased fixed costs. This second facility requires the maintenance of additional regulatory approvals and costs.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully operate the second facility in a timely or profitable manner, or within the budget that we currently project. If the demand for SYNDROS® and any future related products never meets our expectations and forecasts, or if we do not produce the output we plan, we may not be able to realize the return on investment we anticipated, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to operate a new, larger facility successfully will greatly depend on our ability to hire, train and retain an adequate number of additional manufacturing employees, in particular employees with the appropriate level of knowledge, background and skills. Should we be unable to hire such employees, our business and financial results could be negatively impacted.. We are dependent on numerous third parties in our supply chain for the commercial supply of SUBSYS®, and if we fail to maintain our supply and manufacturing relationships with these third parties or fail to develop new relationships with other third parties, we may be unable to continue to commercialize SUBSYS® or to develop other product candidates.. We rely on a number of third parties for the commercial supply of SUBSYS® and the clinical supply of certain of our product candidates. Our ability to commercially supply SUBSYS® and to develop our product candidates depends, in part, on our ability to successfully obtain the API for SUBSYS® and the materials for certain other of our product candidates, and outsource most if not all of the aspects of their manufacturing at competitive costs, in accordance with regulatory requirements and in sufficient quantities for commercialization and clinical testing. If we fail to develop and maintain supply relationships with these third parties, we may be unable to continue to commercialize SUBSYS® or certain of our other product candidates.. We purchase the fentanyl API utilized in connection with SUBSYS® from one vendor as our sole supplier of the API in this product. We purchase the starting materials for our dronabinol API from several third parties. We do not have long-term agreements with any of these parties, but rather purchase material on a purchase order basis. Moreover, some of the starting material for our dronabinol API is difficult to procure and produce. Our ability to obtain fentanyl API and the starting materials for our dronabinol API in sufficient quantities and quality, and on a timely basis, is critical to our continued commercialization of SUBSYS® and to our successful completion of preclinical studies and clinical trials for our product candidates. There is no assurance that these suppliers will continue to produce the materials in the quantities and quality and at the times they are needed, if at all, especially in light of the fact that we intend to significantly increase our orders for these materials in the near future. Moreover,. 30. Table of Contents. the replacement of any of these suppliers, particularly the supplier of the starting material for our dronabinol API that is difficult to produce, could lead to significant delays and increase in our costs.. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for SUBSYS® and currently lack the in-house capabilities to manufacture SUBSYS®. Our SUBSYS® sub-component manufacturing is performed by Aptar, with the final fill, assembly and packaging of SUBSYS® performed by Renaissance. If there are problems relating to the equipment utilized by Aptar to manufacture SUBSYS®, we will be responsible for fixing or replacing that equipment. Any requirement to do so could result in unexpected costs and expenses and delay the production of SUBSYS®, which could in turn negatively impact our business.. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products generally requires significant expertise and capital investment, often including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up and validating initial production. These problems can include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product, quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. Additionally, our manufacturers may experience difficulties due to resource constraints, labor disputes, unstable political environments or natural disasters. If our manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties, or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations for any reason, our ability to commercially supply SUBSYS® could be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in our ability to commercially supply SUBSYS® will result in the loss of potential revenues and could adversely affect the market's acceptance of these products. We cannot guarantee that we will not encounter other manufacturing issues in the future. In addition, any delay or interruption in the supply of preclinical study or clinical trial supplies could delay the completion of those studies or trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining our programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new studies or trials at additional expense or terminate studies or trials completely.. Manufacturers and suppliers are subject to regulatory requirements including cGMPs, which cover, among other things, manufacturing, testing, quality control and recordkeeping relating to our products and product candidates, and are subject to ongoing inspections by FDA, DEA and other regulatory agencies. Moreover, if we seek regulatory approval for any product candidate, the facilities to be used by us or our third-party manufacturers for the manufacture of the product candidate must be approved by the applicable regulatory authorities before the product candidate may be approved and marketed. We do not control the manufacturing processes of third-party manufacturers, and we are dependent upon them in material ways. If any of our third-party manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture product that conforms to our specifications and the applicable regulatory authorities' strict regulatory requirements, they will not be able to secure or maintain regulatory approval for the manufacturing facilities. In addition, we have no control over the ability of third-party manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If the FDA or any other applicable regulatory authorities do not approve these facilities for the manufacture of our products or product candidates or if they withdraw any such approval in the future, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would significantly impact our ability to commercially supply SUBSYS® or develop or obtain regulatory approval for certain of our product candidates.. If our third-party manufacturers or suppliers fail to deliver the required commercial quantities of SUBSYS®  and the respective sub-components and starting materials, on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, and we are unable to find one or more replacement manufacturers or suppliers capable of production at a substantially equivalent cost in substantially equivalent volumes and quality, and on a timely basis, the continued commercialization of SUBSYS® and the development of certain of our product candidates would be impeded, delayed, limited or prevented, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. We may encounter delays in the manufacturing of SUBSYS® or fail to generate revenue if our supply of the components of our sublingual spray delivery system is interrupted.. Our sublingual spray drug delivery system is sourced, manufactured and assembled by multiple third parties across different geographic locations in the United States and Europe. All contract manufacturers and component suppliers have been selected for their specific competencies in the manufacturing processes and materials that make. 31. Table of Contents. up the sublingual spray system. The components of the spray system include the actuator subassembly, vial subassembly, and the setting mechanism. The actuator subassembly is comprised of nine individual components which are collectively supplied by six different third-party manufacturers. The vial subassembly that houses the sterile drug formulation fentanyl is comprised of five different components supplied by four third-party manufacturers. Each of these third-party manufacturers is currently the single source of their respective components. If any of these manufacturers is unable to supply its respective component for any reason, including due to violations of cGMPs for medical devices, known as QSR, our ability to both have the finished sublingual spray device manufactured and to commercially supply SUBSYS® will be adversely affected and we would lose potential revenue. Accordingly, a failure in any part of our supply chain may cause a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue from SUBSYS®, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. We face intense competition, including from generic products. If our competitors market or develop alternative treatments that are approved more quickly or marketed more effectively than our product candidates or are demonstrated to be safer or more effective than our products, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated.. The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on developing proprietary therapeutics. We face competition from a number of sources, some of which may target the same indications as our products or product candidates, such as pharmaceutical companies, including generic drug companies, biotechnology companies, drug delivery companies and academic and research institutions, many of which have greater financial resources, marketing capabilities, including well-established sales forces, manufacturing capabilities, research and development capabilities, experience in obtaining regulatory approvals for product candidates and other resources than us.. SUBSYS® competes against numerous branded and generic products already being marketed and potentially those which are or will be in development. Many of these competitive products are offered in the United States by large, well-capitalized companies. SUBSYS® is one of nine commercially available products in the TIRF market. In the BTCP market, physicians often treat BTCP with a variety of short-acting opioid medications, including morphine, morphine and codeine derivatives and fentanyl. Some currently marketed products against which we directly compete include Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.'s Fentora® and Actiq®, Sentynl Therapeutics' Abstral®, Depomed Inc.'s Lazanda® and BioDelivery Sciences International, Inc.'s Onsolis®. Some generic fentanyl products against which SUBSYS® competes are marketed by Mallinckrodt, Inc., Par Pharmaceutical Companies, Inc. and Actavis, Inc. In addition, we are aware of numerous companies developing other treatments and technologies for rapid delivery of opioids to treat BTCP, including transmucosal, transdermal, nasal spray, and inhaled sublingual delivery systems. If these treatments and technologies are successfully developed and approved, they could represent significant additional competition to SUBSYS®.. With respect to SYNDROS® and our dronabinol product candidates, the market in which we intend to compete is challenging in part because generic products generally face greater price competition than branded products and the competition from generic products may have an effect on our product prices, market share, revenues and profitability. We may not be able to differentiate any products that we may market from those of our competitors, successfully develop or introduce new products that are less costly or offer better performance than those of our competitors, or offer purchasers of our products payment and other commercial terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors. In addition, there are a number of established therapies and products already commercially available and under development by other companies that treat the indications that our dronabinol product candidates are intended to treat. Specifically, if approved, our dronabinol product candidates will compete, against therapies and products such as Abbvie, Inc.'s Marinol® and Marinol® generics. Par Pharmaceutical Companies markets an approved generic version of Marinol® and Actavis markets an authorized generic version of Marinol®. We cannot give any assurance that other companies will not obtain regulatory approval or acceptable DEA classification for, or commercialize additional generic dronabinol products.. Moreover, our dronabinol products may compete with non-synthetic cannabinoid drugs, including therapies such as GW Pharmaceuticals plc's Sativex®, especially in many countries outside of the United States where non-synthetic cannabinoids are legal. In addition, literature has been published arguing the benefits of natural cannabis, or marijuana, over dronabinol, and there are a number of states that have already enacted laws legalizing medicinal. 32. Table of Contents. and recreational marijuana. There is some support in the United States for further legalization of marijuana. We also cannot assess the extent to which patients utilize marijuana illegally to alleviate CINV, instead of using prescribed therapies such as approved dronabinol products. Furthermore, in the treatment of CINV, physicians typically offer conventional anti-nausea drugs prior to initiating chemotherapy, such as Sanofi's Anzemet®, Eisai Inc./Helsinn Group's Aloxi®, Roche Holding AG's Kytril®, Par Pharmaceutical Companies' Zuplenz® and GlaxoSmithKline plc's Zofran®, as well as Neurokinin 1 receptor antagonists on the market including Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd.'s Sancuso® and Merck & Co., Inc.'s Emend®. To the extent that SYNDROS® and our dronabinol product candidates compete in the broader CINV market, we will also face competition from these products and their generic equivalents, as applicable.. Additionally, we are aware of companies who have received approval for the commercialization of CINV products, including Heron Therapeutics, Inc.'s (formerly A.P. Pharma, Inc.) Sustrol®, Tesaro, Inc.'s Varubi®, and Roche Holding/Helsinn Group's Akynzeo®. If these products are successfully marketed over the next few years, they could represent significant competition for SYNDROS®. Additionally, Aphios Corp.'s Zindol® is in late stage development (Phase 3), and if successfully developed and approved could represent significant competition for SYNDROS®.. We also face competition from third parties in obtaining allotments of fentanyl and dronabinol under applicable DEA annual quotas, recruiting and retaining qualified personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and enrolling patients in clinical trials, and in identifying and acquiring or in-licensing new products and product candidates.. Our competitors may also develop products that are more effective, better tolerated, subject to fewer or less severe side effects, more useful, more widely-prescribed or accepted, or less costly than ours. For each product we commercialize, sales and marketing efficiency are likely to be significant competitive factors. We have built a commercial organization to market SUBSYS® and SYNDROS®  in the United States without using third-party sales or marketing channels, but it is unclear what strategies we will utilize in the future in connection with our commercial organization in the United States for any additional proprietary product candidates that we may develop, and there can be no assurance that we can maintain and augment these capabilities in a manner that will be cost efficient and competitive with the sales and marketing efforts of our competitors, especially since some or all of those competitors could expend greater economic resources than we do and/or employ third-party sales and marketing channels.. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate levels of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers for SUBSYS®, SYNDROS®, or any future products we may seek to commercialize, on reasonable pricing terms, their commercial success may be severely hindered.. Successful sales of our products depend on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers. This requires us to over time successfully navigate the managed care sector for our approved products including but not limited to negotiating managed care contracts and access to certain drug formularies.  Because of the challenges created by certain allegations against our former employees in connection with our interactions with third-party payers, negotiating such contracts and access may be more difficult than it otherwise might have been and may not be possible in certain instances.. Patients who are prescribed medicine for the treatment of their conditions generally rely on third-party payers to reimburse all or part of the costs associated with their prescription drugs. Adequate coverage and reimbursement from governmental health care programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and commercial payers is critical to new product acceptance. Coverage decisions may depend upon clinical and economic standards that disfavor new drug products when more established or lower cost therapeutic alternatives are already available or subsequently become available. Assuming we obtain coverage for a given product, the resulting reimbursement payment rates might not be adequate or may require co-payments that patients find unacceptably high. Patients are unlikely to use our products unless coverage is provided and reimbursement is adequate to cover a significant portion of the cost of our products.. In addition, the market for our products will depend significantly on access to third-party payers' drug formularies, or lists of medications for which third-party payers provide coverage and reimbursement. The. 33. Table of Contents. competition to be included in such formularies often leads to downward pricing pressures on pharmaceutical companies. Also, third-party payers may refuse to include a particular branded drug in their formularies or otherwise restrict patient access to a branded drug when a less costly generic equivalent or other alternative is available. For example, many third-party payers require usage and failure on cheaper generic versions of Actiq® prior to providing reimbursement for SUBSYS® and other branded TIRF products, which limits SUBSYS®' use as a first-line treatment option.. Third-party payers, whether foreign or domestic, or governmental or commercial, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling health care costs. In addition, in the United States, no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for drug products exists among third-party payers. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement for drug products can differ significantly from payer to payer. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that will require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our products to each payer separately, with no assurance that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be obtained.. Further, we believe that future coverage and reimbursement will likely be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Third-party coverage and reimbursement for SUBSYS®, SYNDROS®, or any of our product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval may not be available or adequate in either the United States or international markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. We depend on wholesale pharmaceutical distributors for retail distribution of SUBSYS® and SYNDROS®; if we lose any of our significant wholesale pharmaceutical distributors, our business could be harmed.. The majority of our sales of SUBSYS® and SYNDROS® are to wholesale pharmaceutical distributors who, in turn, sell the products to pharmacies, hospitals and other customers. For the year ended December 31, 2017, three wholesale pharmaceutical distributors, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, McKesson Corporation, and Cardinal Health, Inc., individually and collectively comprised a material portion of our total gross sales of SUBSYS® and SYNDROS®. The loss by us of any of these wholesale pharmaceutical distributors' accounts or a material reduction in their purchases could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. In addition, these wholesale customers comprise a significant part of the distribution network for pharmaceutical products in the United States. This distribution network has undergone, and may continue to undergo, significant consolidation marked by mergers and acquisitions. As a result, a small number of large wholesale distributors control a significant share of the market. Consolidation of drug wholesalers has increased, and may continue to increase, competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical products. We cannot assure you that we can manage these pricing pressures or that wholesaler purchases will not fluctuate unexpectedly from period to period.. Our sales of SUBSYS® and SYNDROS® can be greatly affected by the inventory levels our respective wholesalers carry. We monitor wholesaler inventory of SUBSYS® and SYNDROS® using a combination of methods. Pursuant to distribution service agreements with our three largest wholesale customers, we receive inventory level reports. For most other wholesalers where we do not receive inventory level reports, however, our estimates of wholesaler inventories may differ significantly from actual inventory levels. Significant differences between actual and estimated inventory levels may result in excessive production (requiring us to hold substantial quantities of unsold inventory), inadequate supplies of products in distribution channels, and insufficient product available at the retail level. These changes may cause our revenues to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and in some cases may cause our operating results for a particular quarter to be below our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In addition, at times, wholesaler purchases may exceed customer demand, resulting in reduced wholesaler purchases in later quarters, which may result in substantial fluctuations in our results of operations from period to period. If our financial results are below expectations for a particular period, the market price of our common stock may drop significantly.. 34. Table of Contents. We rely on third parties to perform many necessary services for SUBSYS® and SYNDROS®, including services related to distribution, invoicing, storage and transportation, and expect to do so for any future branded proprietary products, if approved.. We have retained third-party service providers to perform a variety of functions related to the sale and distribution of SUBSYS® and SYNDROS®, key aspects of which are out of our direct control. For example, we rely on Cardinal Health 105, Inc. (a/k/a Specialty Pharmaceutical Services) to provide key services related to logistics, warehousing and inventory management, distribution, contract administration and chargeback processing, accounts receivable management and call center management, and, as a result, most of our SUBSYS® and SYNDROS® inventory is stored at a single warehouse maintained by the service provider. We must rely on this provider as well as other third-party providers that perform services for us, including entrusting our inventories of SUBSYS® and SYNDROS® to their care and handling. If these third-party service providers fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, fail to meet expected deadlines, or otherwise do not carry out their contractual duties to us, or encounter physical damage or natural disaster at their facilities, our ability to deliver SUBSYS® and SYNDROS® to meet commercial demand would be significantly impaired. In addition, we utilize third parties to perform various other services for us relating to sample accountability and regulatory monitoring, including adverse event reporting, safety database management and other product maintenance services. If the quality or accuracy of the data maintained by these service providers is insufficient, our ability to continue to market SUBSYS® and SYNDROS® could be jeopardized or we could be subject to regulatory sanctions. We do not currently have the internal capacity to perform these important commercial functions, and we may not be able to maintain commercial arrangements for these services on reasonable terms.. In addition to the level of commercial success of our approved products, our future growth is also dependent on our ability to successfully develop a pipeline of product candidates, and we cannot give any assurance that any of our product candidates will receive regulatory approval or acceptable DEA classification, if applicable, or that any approved products will be successfully commercialized.. Our long-term growth will be limited unless we can successfully develop a pipeline of additional product candidates. We do not have internal new drug discovery capabilities, and our primary focus is on developing improved formulations and delivery methods for existing FDA-approved products.. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, sale, marketing and distribution of drug products containing controlled substances, among other things, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, the DEA and other regulatory authorities in the United States. Obtaining approval of an NDA is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. The FDA also has substantial discretion in the drug approval process, including the ability to delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons. For example:. •  the FDA may not deem a product candidate safe and effective;. •  the FDA may not find the data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials sufficient to support approval;. •  the FDA may require additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials;. •  the FDA may not approve our third-party manufacturers' processes and facilities; or. •  the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations.. Any of our product candidates may fail to achieve their specified endpoints in clinical trials. Furthermore, product candidates may not be approved even if they achieve their specified endpoints in clinical trials. The FDA may disagree with our trial design and our interpretation of data from clinical trials, or may change the requirements for approval even after it has reviewed and commented on the design for our clinical trials. The FDA may also approve a product candidate for fewer or more limited indications than we request, or may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly post-approval clinical trials (i.e., Phase IV trials). In addition, the FDA may not approve the labeling claims that we believe are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates.. 35. Table of Contents. If we are unable to expand our pipeline and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates on the timelines we anticipate, we will not be able to execute our business strategy effectively and our ability to substantially grow our revenues will be limited, which would have a material adverse impact on our long-term business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. Our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate acceptable levels of safety and efficacy of any of our product candidates, which could prevent or significantly delay their regulatory approval.. Our product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. Before obtaining U.S. regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any product candidate, we must gather substantial evidence from well-controlled clinical trials that demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA that the product candidate is safe and effective for its proposed indication, and similar regulatory approvals would be necessary to commercialize the product candidate in other countries.. In light of widely publicized events concerning the safety risk of certain drug products, particularly drug products that contain controlled substances, regulatory authorities, members of Congress, the GAO, medical professionals and the general public have raised concerns about potential drug safety issues. These events have resulted in the withdrawal of drug products, revisions to drug labeling that further limit use of the drug products and establishment of risk management programs that may, for instance, restrict distribution of drug products after approval. In addition, the FDCA authorizes the FDA to, among other things, require post-approval studies and clinical trials, mandate changes to drug labeling to reflect new safety information and require a REMS for certain drugs, including certain currently approved drugs. Under the FDCA, companies that violate these and other provisions of the law are subject to substantial civil monetary penalties, among other regulatory, civil and criminal penalties.. The increased attention to drug safety issues may result in a more cautious approach by the FDA in its review of our clinical trials. Data from clinical trials may receive greater scrutiny with respect to safety, which may make the FDA or other regulatory authorities more likely to terminate clinical trials before completion, or require longer or additional clinical trials that may result in a delay or failure in obtaining approval or approval for a more limited indication than originally sought.. Clinical trials for our product candidates are expensive, time consuming, uncertain and susceptible to change, delay or termination.. Clinical trials are very expensive, time consuming and difficult to design and implement. Most of our product candidates are in preclinical development. We estimate that clinical trials for these product candidates, if and when initiated, will continue for several years and may take significantly longer than expected to complete. In addition, we, the FDA, an IRB, or other regulatory authorities, including state and local, may suspend, delay or terminate our clinical trials at any time, or the DEA could suspend or terminate the registrations and quota allotments we require in order to procure and handle controlled substances, for various reasons, including:. •  lack of effectiveness of any product candidate during clinical trials;. •  discovery of serious or unexpected toxicities or side effects experienced by study participants or other safety issues;. •  slower than expected rates of subject recruitment and enrollment rates in clinical trials;. •  difficulty in retaining subjects who have initiated a clinical trial but may withdraw at any time due to adverse side effects from the therapy, insufficient efficacy, fatigue with the clinical trial process or for any other reason;. •  delays or inability in manufacturing or obtaining sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials, in particular obtaining sufficient quantities of dronabinol due to regulatory and manufacturing constraints;. •  inadequacy of or changes in our manufacturing process or product formulation;. 36. Table of Contents. •  delays in obtaining regulatory authorization to commence a study, or \"clinical holds\" or delays requiring suspension or termination of a study by a regulatory agency, such as the FDA, before or after a study is commenced;. •  DEA-related recordkeeping, reporting, or security violations at a clinical site, leading the DEA or state authorities to suspend or revoke the site's controlled substance license and causing a delay or termination of planned or ongoing studies;. •  changes in applicable regulatory policies and regulations;. •  delays or failure in reaching agreement on acceptable terms in clinical trial contracts or protocols with prospective clinical trial sites;. •  uncertainty regarding proper dosing;. •  unfavorable results from ongoing clinical trials and preclinical studies;. •  failure of our CROs or other third-party contractors to comply with all contractual and regulatory requirements or to perform their services in a timely or acceptable manner;. •  failure by us, our employees, our CROs or their employees to comply with all applicable FDA, DEA or other regulatory requirements relating to the conduct of clinical trials or the handling, storage, security and recordkeeping for controlled substances;. •  scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions;. •  failure to design appropriate clinical trial protocols;. •  insufficient data to support regulatory approval;. •  inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols;. •  difficulty in maintaining contact with subjects during or after treatment, which may result in incomplete data; or. •  regulatory concerns with cannabinoid or opioid products generally and the potential for abuse of the drugs.. Generally, there is a high rate of failure for drug candidates proceeding through clinical trials. We may suffer significant setbacks in our clinical trials similar to the experience of a number of other companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, even after receiving promising results in earlier trials. Further, even if we view the results of a clinical trial to be positive, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may disagree with our interpretation of the data. In the event that we abandon or are delayed in our clinical development efforts related to our product candidates, we may not be able to execute on our business plan effectively, we may not be able to become profitable, our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be significantly damaged and our stock price would likely decrease significantly.. We have in the past relied and expect to continue to rely on third parties to conduct and oversee our clinical trials. If these third parties do not meet our deadlines or otherwise conduct the trials as required, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates when expected or at all.. We have in the past relied and expect to continue to rely on third-party CROs to conduct and oversee our clinical trials. For example, we contracted with Worldwide Clinical Trials to conduct and oversee our pivotal bioequivalence study for our approved product SYNDROS®.. We also rely upon various medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct our trials in accordance with our clinical protocols and all applicable regulatory requirements, including the FDA's good clinical practice regulations and DEA and state regulations governing the handling, storage, security and recordkeeping for controlled substances. These CROs and third parties play a significant role in the conduct of these trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data from the clinical trials. We rely heavily on these parties for the execution of our clinical and preclinical studies, and control only certain aspects of their activities.. 37. Table of Contents. If any of our clinical trial sites terminate their involvement in one of our clinical trials for any reason, we may experience the loss of follow-up information on patients enrolled in our ongoing clinical trials unless we are able to transfer the care of those patients to another qualified clinical trial site. In addition, principal investigators for our clinical trials may serve as scientific advisors or consultants to us from time to time and receive cash or equity compensation in connection with such services. If these relationships and any related compensation result in perceived or actual conflicts of interest, the integrity of the data generated at the applicable clinical trial site may be questioned by the FDA.. We have conducted and may in the future conduct clinical trials for our products or product candidates outside the United States and the FDA may not accept data from such trials.. We have conducted and may in the future choose to conduct one or more of our clinical trials outside the United States. For example, our Phase 3 SUBSYS® safety trial was conducted at 46 sites in the United States and ten sites in India. Although the FDA may accept data from clinical trials conducted outside the United States, acceptance of such study data by the FDA is subject to certain conditions. For example, the study must be well designed and conducted and performed by qualified investigators in accordance with ethical principles. The study population must also adequately represent the U.S. population, and the data must be applicable to the U.S. population and U.S. medical practice in ways that the FDA deems clinically meaningful. Generally, the patient population for any clinical studies conducted outside of the United States must be representative of the population for whom we intend to label the product in the United States. In addition, such studies would be subject to the applicable local laws and FDA acceptance of the data would be dependent upon its determination that the studies also complied with all applicable U.S. laws and regulations. There can be no assurance the FDA will accept data from trials conducted outside of the United States. If the FDA does not accept any such data, it would likely result in the need for additional trials, which would be costly and time-consuming and delay aspects of our business plan.. Since the starting materials we utilize to manufacture dronabinol are sourced out of India, we are exposed to a number of risks and uncertainties associated with that geographic region.. The suppliers of the starting materials we utilize to manufacture dronabinol are located in India. This exposes us to a number of risks and uncertainties outside our control. India has suffered political instability in the past due to various factors. There have also been armed conflicts between India and neighboring Pakistan. Moreover, extremist groups within India and neighboring Pakistan have from time to time targeted Western interests. In addition, India is susceptible to natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods. Political instability, future hostilities with countries such as Pakistan, targeting of our interests by extremist attacks, and earthquakes or other natural disasters in India could harm our operations and impede our ability to produce dronabinol on our anticipated timeline, or at all.. If the FDA does not conclude that certain of our product candidates satisfy the requirements for the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory approval pathway, or if the requirements for such product candidates under Section 505(b)(2) are not as we expect, the approval pathway for those product candidates will likely take significantly longer, cost significantly more and entail significantly greater complications and risks than anticipated, and in either case may not be successful.. We are developing several proprietary dronabinol product candidates, including a Dronabinol Inhalation Device, for which we intend to seek FDA approval through the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway. Section 505(b)(2), if applicable to us under the FDCA, would allow an NDA we submit to FDA to rely in part on data in the public domain or the FDA's prior conclusions regarding the safety and effectiveness of approved compounds, which could expedite the development program for our product candidates by potentially decreasing the amount of clinical data that we would need to generate in order to garner FDA approval. If the FDA does not allow us to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway as anticipated, we may need to conduct additional clinical trials, provide additional data and information, and meet additional standards for regulatory approval. If this were to occur, the time and financial resources required to obtain FDA approval for these product candidates, and complications and risks associated with these product candidates, would likely substantially increase. We could need to obtain more additional funding, which could result in significant dilution to the ownership interests of our then existing stockholders to the extent we issue equity securities or convertible debt. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain such additional financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Moreover, inability to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway would likely result in new competitive products reaching the market more quickly than our product candidates, which would likely materially adversely impact our competitive position and prospects. Even if we are allowed to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway, we cannot assure you that our product candidates will receive the requisite approvals for commercialization.. 38. Table of Contents. In addition, notwithstanding the approval of a number of products by the FDA under Section 505(b)(2) over the last few years, certain brand-name pharmaceutical companies and others have objected to the FDA's interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). If the FDA's interpretation of Section 505(b)(2) is successfully challenged, the FDA may be required to change its 505(b)(2) policies and practices, which could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving any NDA that we submit under Section 505(b)(2). In addition, the pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, and Section 505(b)(2) NDAs are subject to special requirements designed to protect the patent rights of sponsors of previously approved drugs that are referenced in a Section 505(b)(2) NDA. These requirements may give rise to patent litigation and mandatory delays in approval of our NDAs for up to 30 months or longer depending on the outcome of any litigation. It is not uncommon for a manufacturer of an approved product to file a citizen petition with the FDA seeking to delay approval of, or impose additional approval requirements for, pending competing products. If successful, such petitions can significantly delay, or even prevent, the approval of the new product. However, even if the FDA ultimately denies such a petition, the FDA may substantially delay approval while it considers and responds to the petition. In addition, even if we are able to utilize the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway, there is no guarantee this would ultimately lead to accelerated product development or earlier approval.. Moreover, even if our product candidates are approved under Section 505(b)(2), the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the products may be marketed or to other conditions of approval, or may contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the products.. Annual DEA quotas on the amount of dronabinol allowed to be produced in the United States and our specific allocation of dronabinol by the DEA could significantly limit the production or sale of any dronabinol product candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval as well as significantly delay the clinical development of our dronabinol product candidates.. Dronabinol, a Schedule I substance, is subject to the DEA's production and procurement quota scheme. The DEA establishes annually an aggregate quota for the amount of dronabinol that may be produced in the United States based on the DEA's estimate of the quantity needed to meet legitimate scientific and medicinal needs. This limited aggregate amount of dronabinol that the DEA allows to be produced in the United States each year is allocated among individual companies, who must submit applications annually to the DEA for individual production and procurement quotas. We are required to obtain an annual quota from the DEA in order to manufacture and produce dronabinol. The DEA may adjust aggregate production quotas and individual production and procurement quotas from time to time during the year and has substantial discretion in deciding whether or not to make such adjustments. For 2018, we were allocated what we believe is a sufficient quantity of dronabinol to meet our currently anticipated production and testing needs through 2018. However, we may need additional amounts of dronabinol in future years to implement our business plan.. We do not know what amounts of dronabinol other companies developing or marketing dronabinol product candidates may have requested for 2019 or will request in future years. The DEA, in assessing factors such as medical need, abuse potential and other policy considerations, may have chosen to set the aggregate dronabinol quota for 2018 lower than the total amount requested by the companies, and may do so in the future. Though companies are permitted to petition the DEA to increase the aggregate quota for dronabinol in a given year after it is initially established, there is no guarantee the DEA would act promptly or favorably upon such a petition. The success of our business plan will depend in part on our being able to expand the overall market for the medical use of dronabinol by introducing new dronabinol formulations, and to sell significant amounts of our approved dronabinol products. In order to do so, we will need to receive from the DEA significantly increased allotments of dronabinol quotas over time and likely an increase in the aggregate annual quota. Any delay or refusal by the DEA in establishing quotas necessary for us to execute on our business plan could negatively impact our ability to sell SYNDROS® , and any other dronabinol product candidate for which we obtain regulatory approval, as well as our preclinical studies and clinical trials, which would in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to execute on our business plan, our financial position and results of operations, our prospects, and our ability to generate revenue to fund the development of our other product candidates.. 39. Table of Contents. Our failure to successfully develop, acquire and market additional product candidates or approved products would impair our ability to grow our business.. As part of our growth strategy we intend to seek to expand our product pipeline by developing or exploring acquisition or in-licensing opportunities of proven drugs that can be paired with our sublingual spray drug delivery system. Some of these drugs may require reformulation to accommodate the approved doses in smaller volumes that are compatible with our delivery system. Any reformulation may increase the risk of failure during development, extend the development timelines, increase development costs and add complexity to the regulatory approval process and in some cases reformulation may not be possible. If we are not able to identify additional drug compounds that can be delivered via the current version of our sublingual spray technology, or if we are unable to successfully develop higher dose versions of this technology, our ability to develop additional product candidates and grow our business would be adversely affected.. Furthermore, we intend to in-license, acquire, develop and/or market additional products and product candidates in the areas of supportive care. Because our internal research and development capabilities are limited, we may be dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic scientists and other researchers to license or sell products or technology to us. The success of this strategy depends partly upon our ability to identify and select promising pharmaceutical product candidates and products, negotiate licensing or acquisition agreements with their current owners and finance these arrangements.. The process of proposing, negotiating and implementing a license or acquisition of a product candidate or approved product is lengthy and complex. Other companies, including some with substantially greater financial, marketing, sales and other resources, may compete with us for the license or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We have limited resources to identify and execute the acquisition or in-licensing of third-party products, businesses and technologies and integrate them into our current infrastructure. Moreover, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or licensing opportunities that are never completed, or we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates on terms that we find acceptable, or at all.. Further, any product candidate that we acquire may require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including pre-clinical or clinical testing and approval by the FDA and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to risks of failure typical of pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that a product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that any approved products that we acquire will be manufactured or sold profitably or achieve market acceptance.. If we fail to attract and keep management and other key personnel, as well as our board members, we may be unable to continue to successfully commercialize SUBSYS® or SYNDROS®, develop our product candidates or otherwise implement our business plan.. Our ability to compete in the highly competitive biotechnology and pharmaceuticals industries depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, scientific, medical and other personnel. We are highly dependent on our management, scientific and medical personnel, as well as our board members. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could impede, delay or prevent the continuing commercialization of SUBSYS® or SYNDROS® and the development of our product candidates and could negatively impact our ability to successfully implement our business plan. If we lose the services of any of these individuals, we may not be able to find suitable replacements on a timely basis or at all, and our business would likely be harmed as a result. We do not maintain \"key man\" insurance policies on the lives of these individuals or the lives of any of our other employees. We employ all of our executive officers and key personnel on an at-will basis and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time, for any reason and without notice; provided, however, that under certain circumstances we may owe them additional compensation in connection with such termination.. In order to retain valuable employees at our company, in addition to salary and cash incentives, we provide incentive stock options that vest over time as well as certain other market based benefits and compensation. The value to employees of stock options that vest over time will be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that are beyond our control, and may at any time be insufficient to counteract offers from other companies.. 40. Table of Contents. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management and other key personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the Chandler, Arizona area where we are headquartered. Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. As such, we could have difficulty attracting experienced personnel to our company and may be required to expend significant financial resources in our employee recruitment and retention efforts. Many of the other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies with whom we compete for qualified personnel have greater financial and other resources, different risk profiles and longer histories in the industry than we do. They also may provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. Some of these characteristics may be more appealing to high quality candidates than that which we have to offer. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede significantly our ability to implement our business strategy and achieve our business objectives.. In addition, we have scientific and clinical advisors who assist us in formulating our development and clinical strategies. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability or loyalty to us. In addition, our advisors may have arrangements with other companies to assist those companies in developing products or technologies that may compete with ours.. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards.. We are exposed to the risk of fraud or other misconduct of our former and current employees, contractors or agents. Misconduct by our former or current employees, contractors or agents could include intentional actions to circumvent our compliance protocols, intentional failures to comply with FDA regulations, provide accurate information by our employees, contractors and agents to the FDA, comply with applicable manufacturing standards, comply with federal and state health care privacy, fraud and abuse laws and regulations, report financial information or data accurately or disclose unauthorized activities to us. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the health care industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, misconduct, kickbacks, self-dealing, off-label promotion and other illegal or inappropriate practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, false claims, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. These laws also dictate the proper use of patient information and data which is subject to privacy laws such as HIPAA. Misconduct of our former or current employees could also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, or illegal misappropriation of drug product, or illegal promotion of a drug product for off-label use, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and maintain a compliance program that strives to meet existing guidance from regulators, but it is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we currently take (or have taken) to detect and prevent this type of activity may not be (or may not have been) effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental sanctions and charges or third-party actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, we may be held accountable for the actions of bad actors that we may have employed and those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions that could, among other things, significantly limit our ability to market our products.. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, and research and development income tax credit carryforwards may be limited.. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, substantial changes in our ownership may limit the amount of NOLs and research and development income tax credit carryforwards that could be utilized annually in the future to offset taxable income, if any. Specifically, this limitation may arise in the event of a cumulative change in ownership of our company of more than 50% within a three-year period. Any such annual limitation, whether as the result of prior transactions, sales of common stock by our existing stockholders or additional sales of common stock by us, may significantly reduce the utilization of the NOLs before they expire and could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations.. 41. Table of Contents. On November 8, 2010, we entered into the NeoPharm merger. The NeoPharm merger was accounted for as a reverse acquisition and resulted in a change of 50% or more of the ownership of NeoPharm. Based on the above, we have estimated the amount of pre-merger federal NOLs that are available to offset our post-merger income is limited to an aggregate of $1.1 million as of December 31, 2017. For state income tax purposes, we have $236.6 million of state NOLs. Based upon the Company's recent tax loss and current projections for future taxable income, the Company does not believe realization of these tax assets is more likely than not. As such, a full valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets has been established as of December 31, 2017.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"2017 Tax Act\" or \"U.S. Tax Reform\"), which, among other things, reduces the federal statutory income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, eliminates the ability to carryback NOLs arising after 2017 and instead would permit such NOLs to be carried forward indefinitely, and reduces the orphan drug credit to 25% from 50% of qualified clinical testing expenses.  These provisions of the 2017 Tax Act may significantly alter the utilization of NOLs and orphan drug credits and could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations.  See Note 10 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion related to the 2017 Tax Act.. We may engage in strategic transactions that could impact our liquidity, increase our expenses and present significant distractions to our management, and which ultimately may not be successful.. From time to time we may consider strategic transactions, such as acquisitions of companies, asset purchases and out-licensing or in-licensing of products, product candidates or technologies, particularly those arrangements that seek to leverage other organizations' internal platforms or competencies for the benefit of our products or potential products. Additional potential transactions that we may consider include a variety of different business arrangements, including spin-offs, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, restructurings, divestitures, business combinations and investments. Any such transaction may require us to incur non-recurring or other charges, may increase our near and long-term expenditures and may pose significant integration challenges or disrupt our management or business, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. For example, these transactions may entail numerous operational and financial risks, including:. •  exposure to unknown or unanticipated liabilities, including foreign laws we are unfamiliar with;. •  disruption of our business and diversion of our management's time and attention in order to develop acquired products, product candidates or technologies;. •  incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of equity securities to pay for acquisitions, which we may not be able to obtain on favorable terms, if at all;. •  higher than expected acquisition and integration costs;. •  write-downs of assets or goodwill or impairment charges;. •  increased amortization expenses;. •  difficulty and cost in combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel;. •  entering into a long-term relationship with a partner that proves to be unreliable or counterproductive;. •  impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and. •  inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses.. Accordingly, although there can be no assurance that we will undertake or successfully complete any transactions of the nature described above, any transactions that we do complete could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects if we are unable to execute on the planned objectives or capitalize on the relationship in the manner that was originally contemplated.. 42. Table of Contents. We face potential product and other liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability if our insurance coverage for those claims is inadequate.. All of the activities of our organization, including the commercial use of our products and clinical use of our product candidates expose us to the risk of liability claims. These risks are varied and difficult to predict.  For instance, because SUBSYS® is an opioid, we face significant risk of product liability for this product even though this product is approved for commercial sale by the FDA and manufactured in facilities licensed and regulated by the FDA. Our products and product candidates are designed to affect important bodily functions and processes, but side effects, manufacturing defects, misuse or abuse associated with SUBSYS®, SYNDROS®, or our product candidates could result in injury to a patient or even death. For example, because our sublingual spray technology is designed to be self-administered by patients, it is possible that a patient could fail to follow instructions and as a result apply a dose in a manner that results in injury or death. In addition, SUBSYS® is an opioid pain reliever that contains fentanyl, and SYNDROS® is a  synthetic cannabinoid, which are both regulated \"controlled substances\" under the CSA and could result in harm to patients relating to its potential for abuse. In addition, a liability claim may be brought against us even if our products or product candidates merely appear to have caused an injury or because our commercial activities are alleged to have impaired a prescriber's ability to independently act in the best interest of the patient. Product liability claims may be brought against us by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling or otherwise coming into contact with our products or product candidates, among others. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in:. •  the inability to commercialize our products or, if approved, our product candidates;. •  decreased demand for our products or, if approved, product candidates;. •  impairment of our business reputation;. •  product recall or withdrawal from the market;. •  withdrawal of clinical trial participants;. •  costs of related litigation;. •  distraction of management's attention from our primary business;. •  substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; or. •  loss of revenues.. With the assistance of a reputable and prominent insurance broker, we have maintained product liability insurance coverage for our commercial products and clinical trials, which we believed to have appropriate aggregate coverage limits consistent with market practice at the time we obtained coverage. We also carry excess product liability insurance coverage for commercial product sales and clinical trials that was determined to be appropriate. However, identifying appropriate coverage is difficult to manage and our historic and future insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of our product liability related expenses or losses and may not cover us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and has provisions that limit that coverage under certain circumstances that may apply to our company. In addition, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost, in sufficient amounts or upon adequate terms to protect us against losses due to, among other things, the challenges we have had with respect to the commercial activities of former employees and the past legal actions that our company has endured or may endure in the future. If we determine that it is prudent to increase our product liability coverage, we may be unable to obtain this increased product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all and it is our understanding that insurance providers are increasingly putting limitations around coverage of opioid products and may not be willing to issue coverage at all. Large judgments have been awarded in class action, multi-district, and individual lawsuits related to opioids and we anticipate that significant judgements or settlements will occur in the future. A large successful product liability claim or a series of smaller successful claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments or settlements exceed our insurance coverage or result in significant dollar amounts, could decrease our cash and have a material adverse effect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 43. Table of Contents. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials and we and our third-party manufacturers and suppliers must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business.. Our research and development activities and our third-party manufacturers' and suppliers' activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials owned by us, including the components of our products and product candidates and other hazardous compounds. We and our manufacturers and suppliers are subject to laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. In some cases, these hazardous materials and various wastes resulting from their use are stored at our and our manufacturers' facilities pending use and disposal. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination, which could cause an interruption of our commercialization efforts, research and development efforts and business operations, injury to our employees and others, environmental damage resulting in costly clean-up and liabilities under applicable laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. Although we believe that the safety procedures utilized by our third-party manufacturers for handling and disposing of these materials generally comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot guarantee that this is the case or eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In such an event, we may be held liable for any resulting damages and such liability could exceed our resources. We do not currently carry biological or hazardous waste insurance coverage and our property and casualty and general liability insurance policies specifically exclude coverage for damages and fines arising from biological or hazardous waste exposure or contamination.. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our current and any future partners, contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. While we have not experienced any such material system failure, accident or security breach to date, if such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our commercialization activities, drug development programs and our business operations. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or future clinical trials could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. Likewise, we rely on a large number of third parties to supply components for and manufacture our products and product candidates, warehouse and distribute SUBSYS® and SYNDROS® and conduct clinical trials, and similar events relating to their computer systems could also have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further commercialization and development of our products and product candidates could be delayed.. We may be adversely affected by natural disasters or other events that disrupt our business operations and our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not adequately protect us from a serious disaster.. Our corporate headquarters and other facilities are located in Chandler, Arizona and Round Rock, Texas, which are not areas that have experienced severe earthquakes. Accordingly, we do not carry earthquake insurance and an unexpected similar event in this region could be devastating to our business. However, other natural disasters or similar events, like hurricanes, fires or explosions or large-scale accidents or power outages, could severely disrupt our operations in Arizona or Texas, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. Our enterprise financial systems are located in our Chandler, Arizona headquarters. Our manufacturing facilities are in Round Rock, Texas. If a disaster, power outage or other event occurred that prevented us from using all or a significant portion of our headquarters or our Round Rock facilities, that damaged critical infrastructure, such as enterprise financial systems or manufacturing resource planning and enterprise quality systems, or that otherwise disrupted operations at either location, it may be difficult or, in certain cases, impossible for us to continue our business for a substantial period of time. For example, Texas, from time to time experiences natural disasters like hurricanes or tornadoes.  In addition, Arizona has in the past experienced flash flooding. Due to the inherently unpredictable nature of these events, the disaster recovery and business continuity plans we have in place currently are limited and are unlikely to prove adequate in the event of a serious disaster or similar event. We may incur. 44. Table of Contents. substantial expenses as a result of the limited nature of our disaster recovery and business continuity plans which, particularly when taken together with our lack of earthquake insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Capital Requirements. We have had significant and increasing operating expenses and may require additional funding.. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. In addition, our revenue has been declining and it has been difficult for us to stabilize our product sales so that we can predictably forecast future revenue. We expect our operating and general and administrative expenses to continue to be significant and increase substantially in connection with our planned research, development and other necessary or desirable activities. In particular, our legal expenses are difficult to predict and manage as a result of the continued and varied legal challenges that not only our company has had but also our former employees that, in some instances, we are required to indemnify. In addition, as we have previously disclosed, we have taken a reserve on a potential settlement fine in connection with our DOJ investigation and we anticipate that the fine associated with this investigation and other state related investigations will be substantial.. We believe that cash generated from operations and our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with interest thereon, will be sufficient to fund our operations through at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of this Annual Report. We have based these estimates on factors that are difficult to predict and our assumptions may prove to be wrong and we could spend our available financial resources much faster than we currently expect. Accordingly, future revenue and cash may prove to be inadequate to meet our costs and expenses and we may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations and continue to support our planned research and development and other necessary or desirable activities.. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to:. •  the timing and amount of revenue from sales of our approved products, SUBSYS® and SYNDROS®, and any subsequently approved product candidates that are commercialized;. •  the size and cost of our commercial infrastructure;. •  the timing of FDA approval and DEA classification of our product candidates, if at all;. •  the timing, rate of progress and cost of any future clinical trials and other product development activities for our dronabinol product candidates and any other product candidates that we may develop, in-license or acquire;. •  costs associated with marketing and distributing SUBSYS®, SYNDROS®, and any subsequently approved product candidates;. •  costs and timing of completion of any additional outsourced commercial manufacturing supply arrangements that we may establish;. •  costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights associated with SUBSYS®, SYNDROS®, and our product candidates;. •  costs associated with prosecuting or defending any litigation and regulatory fines or sanctions as a result of governmental investigations that we are or may become involved in and any damages payable by us that result from such litigation or investigations;. •  costs of operating as a public company;. •  the effect of competing technological and market developments;. •  our ability to acquire or in-license products and product candidates, technologies or businesses;. •  personnel, facilities and equipment requirements; and. •  the terms and timing of any additional collaborative, licensing, co-promotion or other arrangements that we may establish.. 45. Table of Contents. We may also need to raise additional funds to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, receivables or royalty financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities or convertible debt, your ownership will be diluted. Any future debt financing into which we enter may impose upon us covenants that restrict our operations, including limitations on our ability to incur liens or additional debt, pay dividends, redeem our stock, make certain investments and engage in certain merger, consolidation or asset sale transactions. In addition, if we raise additional funds through corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to products or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us.. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, we may be required to significantly delay, scale back or discontinue one or more of our product development programs or commercialization efforts, or other aspects of our business plan. We also may be required to relinquish, license or otherwise dispose of rights to products or product candidates that we would otherwise seek to commercialize or develop ourselves on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available. In addition, our ability to achieve profitability or to respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited.. Risks Related to Regulation of our Products and Product Candidates. If we fail to comply with federal and state health care laws, including fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws, we could face substantial penalties and our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected.. As a pharmaceutical company, even though we do not and will not control referrals of health care services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payers, certain federal and state health care laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients' rights are and will be applicable to our business. As a result of our previously disclosed DOJ Investigation, we anticipate we will be subject to sanctions and fines by the federal government and we believe certain ongoing state investigations could result in future sanctions and fines. The laws that may affect our ability to operate and that may be implicated in such foregoing sanctions or fines include:. •  the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which constrains our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing policies, and relationships with health care providers or other entities, by prohibiting, among other things, soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce, or in return for, either the referral of an individual or the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal health care program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs;. •  federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent;. •  HIPAA, which created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or making false statements relating to health care matters;. •  HIPAA, as amended by the HITECH, and its implementing regulations, which imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and. •  state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as the Anti-Kickback Statute and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including commercial insurers, and state and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts.. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the statutory exceptions and safe harbors available under the U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. To the extent that any product we make is sold in a foreign country, we may be subject to similar foreign laws and regulations. If we or our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from participation in U.S. federal or state health. 46. Table of Contents. care programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could materially adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results.. The FDA provides guidelines with respect to appropriate drug and product promotion, product labeling, and continuing medical and health education activities. Although we endeavor to follow these guidelines, the FDA or the Office of the Inspector General: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services may disagree, and we may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative remedies as well as criminal sanctions. The Office of the Inspector General also has the authority to exclude us from participation in healthcare programs funded by the government. In addition, management's attention could be diverted and our reputation could be damaged. See Note 7 under the heading \"Legal Matters\" in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of these investigations by HHS, Office of Inspector General, the U.S. District Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts and other attorney generals from several states, of potential violations involving our SUBSYS® marketing activities.. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated, particularly the risks related to the actions of our former employees. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security and fraud laws may prove costly.. Our currently marketed products, SUBSYS® and SYNDROS®, and any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval, will be subject to ongoing and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize such products.. Even after we achieve U.S. regulatory approval for a product, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on the approved indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or on the conditions of approval. For example, a product's approval may contain requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies and surveillance, including Phase IV clinical trials, to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product. We are also subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review with respect to the manufacturing, processing, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for our product. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration, as well as continued compliance with cGMPs and with GCPs and GLPs, which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA for all of our products in clinical and pre-clinical development, and for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval. To the extent that a product is approved for sale in other countries, we may be subject to similar restrictions and requirements imposed by laws and government regulators in those countries.. In the case of SUBSYS®, SYNDROS®, and any of our product candidates containing controlled substances, we and our contract manufacturers will also be subject to ongoing DEA regulatory obligations, including, among other things, annual registration renewal, security, recordkeeping, theft and loss reporting, periodic inspection and annual quota allotments for the raw material for commercial production of our products. In addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with cGMP regulations, QSR requirements for medical device components or similar requirements, if applicable. If we or a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where, or processes by which, the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, the manufacturer or us, including requiring product recall, notice to physicians, withdrawal of the product from the market or suspension of manufacturing. In that regard, because certain of our contract manufacturers for SUBSYS® and SYNDROS® are located outside the United States, they may be subject to foreign laws and regulations governing the manufacture of drugs and devices, and any failure by them to comply with those laws and regulations may delay or interrupt supplies of our products.. 47. Table of Contents. If we, our products or product candidates or the manufacturing facilities for our products or product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may:. •  impose restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, suspend or withdraw product approvals or revoke necessary licenses;. •  issue warning letters, show cause notices or untitled letters describing alleged violations, which may be publicly available;. •  commence criminal investigations and prosecutions;. •  impose injunctions, suspensions or revocations of necessary approvals or other licenses;. •  impose fines or other civil or criminal penalties;. •  suspend any ongoing clinical trials;. •  deny or reduce quota allotments for the raw material for commercial production of our controlled substance products;. •  delay or refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us;. •  refuse to permit drugs or precursor chemicals to be imported or exported to or from the United States;. •  suspend or impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or. •  seize or detain products or require us to initiate a product recall.. In addition, our product labeling, advertising and promotion are subject to regulatory requirements and continuing regulatory review. The FDA strictly regulates the promotional claims that may be made about prescription drug products. In particular, a drug product may not be promoted for uses that are not approved by the FDA as reflected in the product's approved labeling, although the FDA does not regulate the prescribing practices of physicians. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and a company that is found to have improperly promoted off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including substantial monetary penalties and criminal prosecution. For example, we have received subpoenas from the HHS, Office of Inspector General, the U.S. District Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts and other attorney generals from several states. The subpoenas primarily request documents relating to the marketing of SUBSYS®. We are cooperating in responding to the subpoenas. See Note 7 under the heading \"Legal Matters\" in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion regarding these ongoing investigations.. The FDA's regulations, policies or guidance may change and new or additional statutes or government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates or further restrict or regulate post-approval activities. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to achieve and maintain regulatory compliance, we may not be permitted to market our products, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and achieve or maintain profitability.. Our products and our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other unexpected properties that could result in post-approval regulatory action.. If we or others identify undesirable side effects, or other previously unknown problems, caused by our products, other products with the same or related active ingredients or our product candidates, after obtaining U.S. regulatory approval, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including:. •  regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product;. •  regulatory authorities may require us to recall product;. •  regulatory authorities may require the addition of warnings in the product label or narrowing of the indication in the product label;. 48. Table of Contents. •  we may be required to create a Medication Guide outlining the risks of such side effects for distribution to patients;. •  we may be required to change the way the product is administered or modify the product in some other way;. •  the FDA may require us to conduct additional clinical trials or costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product;. •  we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; and. •  our reputation may suffer.. Any of the above events resulting from undesirable side effects or other previously unknown problems could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product and could substantially increase the costs of commercializing our products.. Health care reform measures and changes in policies, funding, staffing and leadership at the FDA and other agencies could hinder or prevent the commercial success of our products and any of our product candidates that may be approved by the FDA.. In the United States, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the health care system in ways that could affect our future results of operations and the future results of operations of our potential customers. For example, the MMA established a new Part D prescription drug benefit, which became effective January 1, 2006. Under the prescription drug benefit, Medicare beneficiaries can obtain prescription drug coverage from private sector plans that are permitted to limit the number of prescription drugs that are covered in each therapeutic category and class on their formularies. If SUBSYS® or any of our product candidates that are approved by the FDA are not widely included on the formularies of these plans, our ability to market our products to the Medicare population could suffer.. Furthermore, there have been and continue to be a number of initiatives at the federal and state levels that seek to reduce health care costs. For example, PPACA includes measures to significantly change the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation's automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. On January 2, 2013, President Obama signed into law the ATRA which reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These new laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other health care funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our customers and accordingly, our financial operations. For instance, President Trump's declaration of the opioid crisis as a public health emergency is anticipated by many to spur potential legislation or executive branch actions that could materially affect the manner in which federal healthcare programs operate.. Additionally, individual states have become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access, and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. Legally-mandated price controls on payment amounts by third-party payers or other restrictions could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. In addition, regional health care authorities and individual hospitals are increasingly using bidding procedures to determine what pharmaceutical products and which suppliers will be included in their prescription drug and other. 49. Table of Contents. health care programs. This can reduce demand for our products or put pressure on our product pricing, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. In certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement and may, in some cases, be unavailable. In some non-U.S. jurisdictions, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for pharmaceutical products will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any of our products.. In the United States, the commercial success of SUBSYS®, SYNDROS®, and our product candidates, if and when commercialized, will continue to depend, in part, upon the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers at the federal, state and private levels. Third-party payers include governmental programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, private insurance plans and managed care plans. These third-party payers may deny coverage or reimbursement for a product or therapy in whole or in part if they determine that the product or therapy was not medically appropriate or necessary. Also, third-party payers have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage through the use of formularies and other cost-containment mechanisms and the amount of reimbursement for particular procedures or drug treatments.. Additionally, given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription drugs and the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid programs. While we cannot predict the full outcome of any such legislation, it may result in decreased reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce prescription drug prices. This could harm our ability to market our products and generate revenues or could result in lower margins. In addition, legislation has been introduced in Congress that, if enacted, would permit more widespread importation or re-importation of pharmaceutical products from foreign countries into the United States, including from countries where the products are sold at lower prices than in the United States. Such legislation, or similar regulatory changes, could lead to a decision to decrease our prices to better compete, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Alternatively, in response to legislation such as this, we might elect not to seek approval for or market our products in foreign jurisdictions in order to minimize the risk of re-importation, which could also reduce the revenue we generate from our product sales. It is also possible that other legislative proposals having similar effects will be adopted.. Furthermore, regulatory authorities' assessment of the data and results required to demonstrate safety and efficacy can change over time and can be affected by many factors, such as the emergence of new information, including on other products, changing policies and agency funding, staffing and leadership. We cannot be sure whether future changes to the regulatory environment will be favorable or unfavorable to our business prospects. For example, average review times at the FDA for marketing approval applications have fluctuated over the last ten years, and we cannot predict the review time for any of our submissions with any regulatory authorities. In addition, review times can be affected by a variety of factors, including budget and funding levels and statutory, regulatory and policy changes.. Heightened attention on the use of opioids, including government litigation changes in policies, legislation and leadership at the federal and state level could hinder or prevent the commercial success of SUBSYS® and any potential future opioid product candidates.. Many federal and governmental agencies are focused on the abuse of opioids in the United States and our current President and agencies such as the HHS have expressed their belief that the United States is in the midst of a prescription opioid abuse epidemic. Common prescription drugs that contain opioids are drugs such as oxycodone, hydrocodone, and fentanyl. Our product, SUBSYS®, is fentanyl based product in the TIRF class. To the extent that the health care community, regulatory bodies and governmental agencies associate us with, or determine that we are. 50. Table of Contents. a part of, this perceived opioid abuse epidemic then this may negatively affect our stock price and our business in various ways including from a marketing, sales and public relations standpoint and these perceptions may also negatively affect our ongoing governmental investigations.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. We may not be able to obtain and enforce patent rights or other intellectual property rights that cover our products or product candidates, such as SUBSYS®, SYNDROS® and Dronabinol Inhalation Device, and that are of sufficient breadth to prevent third parties from competing against us.. Our success with respect to our products and product candidates, such as SUBSYS®, SYNDROS® and Dronabinol Inhalation Device will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection in both the United States and other countries, to preserve our trade secrets, and to prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights on our product candidates. Our ability to protect any of our approved drug products from unauthorized or infringing use by third parties depends in substantial part on our ability to obtain and maintain valid and enforceable patents. Fentanyl and dronabinol have been approved for many years and therefore our ability to obtain any patent protection is limited. Composition of matter patents on APIs are a particularly effective form of intellectual property protection for pharmaceutical products as they apply without regard to any method of use. However, we will not be able to obtain composition of matter patents or methods of use patents that cover the APIs in any of our products or product candidates. As a result, competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval can offer products with the same active ingredients as our products or product candidates so long as the competitors do not infringe any formulation patents that we may obtain or license, if any.. Our patent portfolio related to our sublingual spray technology that is used in SUBSYS® includes patents and patent applications in the United States, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Europe, India, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand and Russia. The covered technology and the scope of coverage vary from country to country. For those countries where we do not have granted patents, we may not have any ability to prevent the unauthorized use of our sublingual spray technology.. In addition, the only patent protection that we can expect will otherwise cover SUBSYS® and dronabinol products and product candidates consists of patents relating to formulations, methods of treatment using certain formulations and methods of manufacturing and packaging. Formulation patents preclude competitors from using a similar formulation. Manufacturing or packaging patents preclude competitors from using the same manufacturing or packaging methods. However, these type of patents do not preclude a competitor from making and marketing the same composition of matter unless they use the same formulation or manufacturing or packaging methods. Any patents that we may obtain may be too narrow in scope and thus easily circumvented by competitors.. Further, in countries where we do not have granted patents directed to our formulations or manufacturing or packaging, third parties may be able to make, use, or sell products identical to, or substantially similar to, SUBSYS®, our dronabinol products or product candidates.. We have multiple pending patent applications in the United States and in some foreign jurisdictions directed to formulations for our fentanyl and dronabinol products and product candidates. We have a number of pending applications and issued patents in the United States and in many foreign countries that pertain to either fentanyl or dronabinol formulations. We can give no assurances that any patents will issue, that if they do issue or have issued, they will provide sufficient protection against competitors, or that they would be valid and enforceable.. Due to legal standards relating to patentability, validity, enforceability and claim scope of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions, our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, rights under any patents we may obtain or license may not provide us with sufficient protection for our products and product candidates to afford a commercial advantage against competitive products or processes, including those from branded and generic pharmaceutical companies. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. Even if patents have issued or will issue, we cannot guarantee that the claims of these patents are or will be held valid or enforceable by the courts or will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable to us.. 51. Table of Contents. Patent applications in the United States are generally maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing. Similarly, publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries. Consequently, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on our products or product candidates. In the event that a third-party has also filed an U.S. patent application relating to our drug product or a similar invention, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the USPTO to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position.. In addition, third parties may challenge our in-licensed patents and any of our own patents that we may obtain, which could result in the invalidation or unenforceability of some or all of the relevant patent claims. Litigation or other proceedings to enforce or defend intellectual property rights is very complex, expensive, and may divert our management's attention from our core business and may result in unfavorable results that could adversely affect our ability to prevent third parties from competing with us.. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not provide intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain evolving or unresolved. Changes in either the patent laws or in the interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents.. The degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain. Patent protection may be unavailable or severely limited in some cases and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example:. •  we might not have been the first to invent or the first to file the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents;. •  others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies;. •  the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business;. •  it is possible that some or none of our or our licensors' pending patent applications will result in issued patents;. •  any patents we obtain or our licensors' issued patents may not encompass commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties;. •  any patents we obtain or our in-licensed issued patents may not be valid or enforceable; or. •  we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable.. If we or our licensors fail to prosecute, maintain and enforce patent protection for our products or product candidates, our ability to develop and commercialize our products or product candidates may be adversely affected and we may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competing products. This failure to properly protect the intellectual property rights relating to our products or product candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how.. Proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how are also very important to our business. Although we have taken steps to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how, by entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties, and proprietary information and invention agreements with certain employees, consultants and advisors, third parties may still obtain this information or we may be unable to protect our rights. We also have limited control over the protection of trade secrets used by our licensors, collaborators and suppliers. There can be no assurance that binding agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any breach, or. 52. Table of Contents. that our trade secrets and unpatented know-how will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. If trade secrets are independently discovered, we would not be able to prevent their use. Enforcing a claim that a third-party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets or unpatented know-how is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secret information.. Our products and the intellectual property related to such products face competition from lower cost generic or follow-on products.. Manufacturers of generic drugs are seeking to compete with our drugs and will do so with our product candidates if they are approved. These generic drug manufacturers present a significant challenge to us and they may challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of our patents in court, requiring us to engage in complex, lengthy and costly litigation. If any of our owned or licensed patents are infringed or challenged, we may not be successful in enforcing or defending those intellectual property rights and, as a result, may not be able to develop or market the relevant product exclusively, which would have a material adverse effect on our sales of that product.. In addition, manufacturers of innovative drugs as well as generic drug manufacturers may be able to design their products around our owned or licensed patents and compete with us using the resulting alternative technology. For more information concerning certain pending proceedings relating to our intellectual property rights, including a discussion on our Paragraph IV challenges, see Note 7 under the heading \"Legal Matters\" in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection for a product, or upon the \"at-risk\" launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a manufacturer of a generic version of one of our products, we could quickly lose a significant portion of our sales of that product and the value of that product line could be significantly reduced.  In addition, if our branded products lose their market exclusivity, our products may face increased competition or pricing pressure.. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, and we may be unable to protect our rights to our products and technology.. If we or our collaborators or licensors choose to go to court to stop a third-party from using the inventions claimed in our own or in-licensed patents, that third-party may ask the court to rule that the patents are invalid and/or should not be enforced against that third-party. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources even if we or they, as the case may be, were successful in stopping the infringement of these patents. In addition, there is a risk that the court will decide that these patents are not valid and that we or they, as the case may be, do not have the right to stop others from using the inventions.. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of these patents is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the third-party on the ground that such third-party's activities do not infringe our owned or in-licensed patents. In addition, our own or in-licensed patents may be subject to challenge and subsequent invalidation or significant narrowing of claim scope in a reexamination or opposition proceeding before a governmental patent agency, or during litigation.. We may also not be able to detect infringement of our own or in-licensed patents, which may be especially difficult for methods of manufacturing or formulation products. While we intend to take actions reasonably necessary to enforce our patent rights, we depend, in part, on our licensors and collaborators to protect a substantial portion of our proprietary rights.. If we are sued for alleged infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our commercial success depends upon our ability and the ability of our collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our products and product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields relating to our products and product candidates. As the medical device,. 53. Table of Contents. biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that others may assert our products or product candidates infringe the patent rights of others. Moreover, it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of medical devices, drugs, products or their methods of use. Thus, because of the large number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our fields, there may be a risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our products, product candidates, technology or methods.. In addition, there may be issued patents of third parties of which we are currently unaware, that are infringed or are alleged to be infringed by our products, product candidates or proprietary technologies. Because some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, and because publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our own and in-licensed issued patents or our pending applications. Our competitors may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering our products, product candidates or technology similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our own and in-licensed patent applications or patents, which could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If another party has filed an U.S. patent application on inventions similar to those owned or in-licensed to us, we or, in the case of in-licensed technology, the licensor may have to participate, in the United States, in an interference proceeding to determine priority of invention.. If another party has reason to assert a substantial new question of patentability against any of our claims in our own and in-licensed U.S. patents, the third-party can request that the patent claims be reexamined, which may result in a loss of scope of some claims or a loss of the entire patent. In addition to potential infringement suits and, interference and reexamination proceedings, we may become a party to patent opposition proceedings where either the patentability of the inventions subject of our patents are challenged, or we are challenging the patents of others. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful.. We may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties having patent or other intellectual property rights alleging that our products and/or product candidates and/or proprietary technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. These lawsuits are costly and could adversely affect our results of operations and divert the attention of managerial and technical personnel. There is a risk that a court would decide that we or our commercialization partners are infringing the third-party's patents and would order us or our partners to stop the activities covered by the patents. In addition, there is a risk that a court will order us or our collaborators to pay the other party damages for having violated the other party's patents.. If a third-party's patents was found to cover our products and/or product candidates, proprietary technologies or their uses, we or our collaborators could be enjoined by a court and required to pay damages and could be unable to continue to commercialize our products or our product candidates or use our proprietary technologies unless we or they obtained a license to the patent. A license may not be available to us or our collaborators on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, during litigation, the patent holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable relief which could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, technologies or methods pending a trial on the merits, which could be years away.. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the device, biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally. If a third-party claims that we or our collaborators infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to:. •  infringement and other intellectual property claims which, regardless of merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management's attention from our core business;. •  substantial damages for infringement, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes or violates the third-party's rights, and if the court finds that the infringement was willful, we could be ordered to pay treble damages and the patent owner's attorneys' fees;. •  a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing the product unless the third-party licenses its product rights to us, which it is not required to do;. 54. Table of Contents. •  if a license is available from a third-party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, upfront fees and/or grant cross-licenses to intellectual property rights for our products; and. •  redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial monetary expenditures and time.. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise additional funds or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed to us alleged trade secrets of their other clients or former employers.. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, certain of our employees were formerly employed by other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Moreover, we engage the services of consultants to assist us in the development of our products and product candidates, many of whom were previously employed at or may have previously been or are currently providing consulting services to, other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that these employees and consultants or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers or their former or current customers. For example, we have in the past received letters from third parties asserting that one of our employees may have used proprietary information of his former employers in connection with our prior regulatory filings. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these types of claims. Even if we are successful in defending against any such claims, any such litigation would likely be protracted, expensive, a distraction to our management team, not viewed favorably by investors and other third parties, and may potentially result in an unfavorable outcome.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. Periodic maintenance fees on our own and in-licensed patents are due to be paid to the governmental patent agencies over the lifetime of the patents. Future maintenance fees will also need to be paid on other patents which may be issued to us. We have systems in place to remind us to pay these fees, and we employ outside firms to remind us or our licensor to pay annuity fees due to patent agencies on our patents and pending patent applications. The various governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. In many cases, an inadvertent lapse can be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules. However, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, our competitors might be able to enter the market and this circumstance would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Stock. Our principal stockholder has placed his shares in an independently controlled trust and the voting committee associated with such trust can effectively control our direction and policies, and they may make decisions that are not in the best interests of us or our other stockholders.. Effective as of February 27, 2018, our company entered into a voting trust agreement with Dr. John N. Kapoor (and certain of his beneficiaries) and an independent trustee.  During the term of this voting trust, Dr. John N. Kapoor (and certain of his beneficiaries) will not have control over voting decisions (except under limited circumstances) over the shares of the Company's common stock beneficially owned by Kapoor and the beneficiaries.  As of the effective date of the voting trust agreement, the shares subject to the trust represented approximately 59% of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company. Until the voting trust agreement is terminated, the shares subject to the trust shall generally be voted on any matter by the trustee as directed by an. 55. Table of Contents. independent voting committee (the \"Voting Committee\") whose members meet certain independence standards with respect to Kapoor.  If at any time the shares subject to the trust represent less than 40% of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company, such shares shall be voted on any matter by the trustee in the same proportion that the shares of the Company's common stock that are not subject to the trust are voted on such matter, which is commonly referred to as \"mirror voting.\". By virtue of this trust, the Voting Committee can and will be able to effectively control the election of the members of our Board of Directors, our management and our affairs and prevent corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, that may be favorable from our standpoint or that of our other stockholders or cause a transaction that we or our other stockholders may view as unfavorable. In addition, pursuant to an exception included in the voting trust agreement, Kapoor retains a veto right which permits him to veto change of control transactions.  Accordingly, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by:. •  delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control;. •  impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us;. •  discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us; or. •  otherwise effectively limiting the rights of other stockholders because the voting committee of the trust has the ability to approve matters submitted to stockholders, including the election of directors, approval of significant transactions and the amendment of our certificate of incorporation.. In addition, the existence and nature of this voting trust could be viewed negatively by third parties and have a negative impact on our stock price. Moreover, if Kapoor's ownership falls below 40% of the outstanding shares and the shares subject to the trust are now subject to \"mirror voting,\" it is possible that a group of shareholders representing a relatively small percentage of ownership in the company could work together to effectively control key decisions. Finally, upon Kapoor's passing, we cannot assure you as to how these shares will be distributed and subsequently voted.. Our common stock price has been volatile, which could result in substantial losses for stockholders.. Our common stock is currently traded on The NASDAQ Global Market. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, limited daily trading volume. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The market for pharmaceutical companies, in particular, has at various times experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may significantly affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The trading price of our common stock could be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, changes in expectations of our future performance, changes in estimates by securities analysts (or failure to meet such estimates), quarterly fluctuations in our sales and financial results and a variety of risk factors, including the ones described elsewhere in this report. Periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities sometimes result in securities class action litigation, which regardless of the merit of the claims, can be time-consuming, costly and divert management's attention. In addition, if we needed to raise equity funds under adverse conditions, it would be difficult to sell a significant amount of our stock without causing a significant decline in the trading price of our stock.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. 56. Table of Contents. Future sales of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock may depress our stock price.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. The exercise of outstanding stock options could result in increased sales of our common stock in the market, which could exert significant downward pressure on our stock price. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price we deem appropriate.. If a large number of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock are sold in the public market after they become eligible for sale, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital.. Anti-takeover provisions in our stockholder rights plan, charter documents and Delaware law might deter acquisition bids for us that you might consider favorable.. On August 15, 2014, after approval by our stockholders, we entered into a rights agreement traditionally referred to as a poison pill. This rights agreement will have certain anti-takeover effects which will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire the Company on terms not approved by our Board. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions:. •  establish a classified Board of Directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time;. •  authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include rights superior to the rights of the holders of common stock;. •  prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;. •  provide that the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, or repeal our bylaws; and. •  establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing so as to cause us to take certain corporate actions you desire.. We may be a \"controlled company\" under Nasdaq's rules and, as a result, may qualify for, and may rely on, exemptions from certain Nasdaq independence rules, which could make our common stock less attractive to investors.. As a result of the independent voting trust holding Kapoor's shares and controlling the related voting power, we believe we are potentially a \"controlled company\" as defined in the Nasdaq Listing Rules and, therefore we may avail ourselves of certain exemptions under applicable Nasdaq rules, including exemptions from the rules that require us to have (i) a majority of independent directors on the Board; (ii) independent director oversight of executive officer compensation; and (iii) independent director oversight of director nominations.. 57. Table of Contents. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. The continued operation and expansion of our business may require substantial funding. Accordingly, we do not anticipate that we will pay any cash dividends on shares of our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant."
