[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. We routinely encounter and address risks in conducting our business. Some of these risks may cause our future results to be different - sometimes materially different - than we presently anticipate. Below are material risks we have identified that could adversely affect our business. How we react to material future developments, as well as how our competitors and customers react to those developments, could also affect our future results.. Our business is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively our sales and results of operations will suffer.. The market for flavors and fragrances is highly competitive. We face vigorous competition from companies throughout the world, including multi-national and specialized flavor, fragrance and cosmetic ingredients companies, as well as consumer product companies who may develop their own flavors, fragrances or cosmetic ingredients. In the flavors industry, we also face increasing competition from ingredient suppliers that have expanded their portfolios to include flavor offerings. Some of our competitors specialize in one or more of our product sub-segments, while others participate in many of our product sub-segments. In addition, some of our global competitors may have greater resources than we do or may have proprietary products that could permit them to respond to changing business and economic conditions more effectively than we can.. 11. Consolidation of our competitors may exacerbate these risks. With our entry into cosmetic ingredients, we may face greater competition-related risks in this market than with our core historic flavor and fragrances businesses.. Competition in our business is based on innovation, product quality, regulatory compliance, pricing, quality of customer service, the support provided by marketing and application groups, and understanding of consumers. It is difficult for us to predict the timing, scale and success of our competitors' actions in these areas. In particular, the discovery and development of new flavors and fragrance compounds and ingredients, protection of the Company's intellectual property and development and retention of key employees are critical to our ability to effectively compete in our business. Increased competition by existing or future competitors, including aggressive price competition, could result in the potential loss of substantial sales or create the need for us to reduce prices or increase spending, and this could have an adverse impact on sales and profitability.. If we are unable to provide our customers with innovative, cost-effective products that allow them to achieve their own profitability expectations, our sales and results of operations will suffer.. During 2017, our 25 largest customers accounted for 50% of our sales, and the largest customer across all end-use categories accounted for 11% to 12% of our sales for each of the last three fiscal years. Loss of or a reduction in sales to our largest customer or any of our other large customers for an extended period of time could adversely affect our business or financial results.. Large multi-national customers, and increasingly, middle-market customers are unilaterally limiting the number of their suppliers or rationalizing the number of products that they offer to increase their margins and profitability. As part of these initiatives, these customers are creating \"core lists\" of suppliers and giving these \"core lists\" suppliers priority for new or modified products. Recently, these customers are making inclusion on their \"core lists\" contingent upon a supplier providing more favorable commercial terms which may adversely affect our margins. These and other profitability initiatives being pursued by our customers reduce the market opportunity for which we compete and subject the volume and pricing of the remaining suppliers to downward pressure. To be successful in this competitive environment, we must continue to make investments in customer relationships and tailor product research and development in order to anticipate customers' needs, deliver products that contribute to our customers' profitability, provide effective customer service and offer competitive cost-in-use solutions to secure and maintain inclusion on certain \"core lists\" and our share of our customers' purchases. If we are unable to do so, it could adversely impact our future results of operations.. We may not successfully develop and introduce new products that meet our customers' needs, which may adversely affect our results of operations.. Our ability to differentiate ourselves and deliver growth in line with our Vision 2020 strategy largely depends on our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product improvements that meet our customers' needs, and ultimately appeal to consumers. Innovation is a key element of our ability to develop and introduce new products. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in achieving our innovation goals, such as the development of new molecules, new and expanded delivery systems and other technologies. We currently spend approximately 8% of our sales on research and development; however, such investments may only generate future revenues to the extent that we are able to develop products that meet our customers' specifications, are at an acceptable cost and achieve acceptance by the targeted consumer market. Furthermore, there may be significant lag times from the time we incur R&D costs to the time that these R&D costs may result in increased revenue. Consequently, even when we \"win\" a project, our ability to generate revenues as a result of these investments is subject to numerous customer, economic and other risks that are outside of our control, including delays by our customers in the launch of a new product, the level of promotional support for the launch, poor performance of our third-party vendors, anticipated sales by our customers not being realized or changes in market preferences or demands, or disruptive innovations by competitors.. 12. A disruption in our manufacturing operations or our supply chain could adversely affect our business and financial results.. As a company engaged in research and development, manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, we and our suppliers are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions in supply chain or information systems, disruption or loss of key research or manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters, international conflicts, terrorist acts and other external factors over which we have no control. While we operate research and development and manufacturing facilities throughout the world, many of these facilities are extremely specialized and certain of our facilities or certain suppliers are the sole source of a specific ingredient or product. If our research and development activities or the manufacturing of ingredients or products were disrupted, the cost of relocating or replacing these activities or reformulating these ingredients or products may be substantial, which could result in production or development delays or otherwise have an adverse effect on our margins, operating results and future growth.. A disruption in our supply chain, including the inability to obtain ingredients and raw materials from third parties, could adversely affect our business and financial results.. In connection with our manufacture of our fragrance and flavor compounds, we often rely on third party suppliers for ingredients and raw materials that are integral to our manufacture of such compounds. Our purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. In addition, our ingredient suppliers, similar to us, are subject to the risks inherent in manufacturing and distribution on a global scale, including industrial accidents, environmental events, strikes and other labor disputes, disruptions in supply chain or information systems, disruption or loss of key research or manufacturing sites, product quality control, safety and environmental compliance issues, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as natural disasters, international conflicts, terrorist acts and other external factors over which they have no control. These suppliers also could become insolvent or experience other financial distress. For example, a fire at the manufacturing facility of BASF Group (\"BASF\"), one of our suppliers, in 2017 caused them to declare a force majeure and has resulted in a disruption of the availability of certain ingredients used in some of our fragrance and flavor compounds. If our suppliers are unable to supply us with sufficient ingredients and raw materials to meet our needs, we would need to seek alternative sources of such materials or pursue our own production of such ingredients or direct acquisition of such raw materials. However, for certain of our raw ingredients and raw materials we rely on a limited number of suppliers where there are not readily available alternatives. If we are unable to obtain or manufacture alternative sources of such ingredients or raw materials at a similar cost, we would seek to (i) reformulate our compounds and/or (2) increase pricing to reflect the higher supply cost. However, if we are not able to successfully implement any of these alternatives, we could experience disruptions in production, increased cost of sales and a corresponding decrease in gross margin or reduced sales if our competitors were able to more successfully adjust to such market disruption. Such fluctuations and decrease in gross margin could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may not be able to successfully identify and complete sufficient acquisitions to meet our Vision 2020 strategy, and even if we are able to do so, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions.. As part of our Vision 2020 strategy, we intend to add between $500 million and $1.0 billion of sales growth through acquisitions within the flavors and fragrances industries and adjacencies. Since 2015, we have completed five acquisitions which align with this strategic objective, most recently acquiring Fragrance Resources, a privately-held fragrance company, and PowderPure, a producer capable of providing clean label flavor solutions, in 2017.. Identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or complete acquisitions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or at all.. Even if we complete an acquisition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisition. Our recent acquisitions have required, and any similar future transactions may also require, significant efforts and expenditures, including with respect to integrating the acquired business with our historical business. We may encounter unexpected difficulties, or incur unexpected costs, in connection with acquisition activities and integration efforts, which include:. • diversion of management attention from managing our historical core business;. • potential disruption of our historical core business or of the acquired business;. • the strain on, and need to continue to expand our existing operational, technical, financial and administrative infrastructure;. 13. • challenges related to the lack of experience in operating in the geographical or product markets of the acquired business;. • challenges in controlling additional costs and expenses in connection with and as a result of the acquisition;. • difficulties in assimilating employees and corporate cultures or in integrating systems and controls;. • difficulties in anticipating and responding to actions that may be taken by competitors;. • difficulties in realizing the anticipated benefits of the transaction;. • potential loss of key employees, key customers, suppliers or other partners of the acquired business; and. • the assumption of and exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of acquired businesses.. If any of our acquisitions do not perform as anticipated for any of the reasons noted above or otherwise, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. The interruption or failure of key information technology systems or a loss of data, malicious attack or other breach of security of our information technology systems, may have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business, subject us to increased operating costs, damage our reputation and expose us to litigation.. We rely on information technology systems, including some managed by third-party providers, to conduct business and support our business processes, including product formulas, product development, sales, order processing, production, distribution, internal communications and communications with third parties throughout the world, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, tax or legal requirements, and collecting and storing customer, supplier, employee and other stakeholder information. These systems may be susceptible to disruptions or outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, natural disasters, cyber-attacks, failed upgrades or other similar events, or due to the poor performance of third-party providers. An effective response to disruptions will require effort and diligence on the part of our employees and third-party providers to avoid any adverse impact to our business. In addition, our systems and proprietary data stored electronically may be vulnerable to computer viruses, cybercrime, computer hacking and similar information security breaches, which in turn could result in the unauthorized release or misuse of confidential or proprietary information about our business (including, but not limited to, the trade secrets upon which we rely to protect our proprietary fragrance and flavor formulations), employees, or customers, and disrupt our operations. Depending on their nature and scope, these threats could potentially lead to improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data or product non-compliance. The occurrence of any of these events could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our sales, subject us to increased operating costs, damage our reputation and expose us to litigation or regulatory proceedings.. If we are unable to successfully market to our expanding and decentralized Flavors customer base, our operating results and future growth may be adversely affected.. The industries in which our Flavors customers operate are expanding and becoming increasingly decentralized. Our historical customer based was primarily comprised of large food and beverage companies, which have faced, in recent years, growing competition from mid-size regional companies and companies focused on niche-product categories driving and accelerating product innovation. In connection with Vision 2020, we identified serving these clients as a key element of our business strategy and invested in this strategy through the acquisition of Ottens Flavors and David Michael. In 2017, we announced the creation of Tastepoint by IFF, designed to service the middle-market customer in North America which is focused on servicing customers with the \"can-do\" approach of a smaller company backed by expertise traditionally reserved for companies with a more of a global reach. However, if we are unable to successfully implement this strategy or gain market share with this growing customer base, our future growth could be adversely affected.. Increasing awareness of health and wellness are driving changes in the consumer products industry, and if we are unable to react in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and future growth may be adversely affected.. We must continually anticipate and react, in a timely and cost-effective manner, to changes in consumer preferences and demands, including changes in demand driven by increasing awareness of health and wellness and demands for transparency with respect to product ingredients. Consumers, especially in developed economies such as the United States and Western Europe, are shifting away from products containing artificial ingredients to all natural, healthier alternatives. In addition, there has been a growing demand by consumers, non-governmental organizations and, to a lesser extent, governmental agencies to provide more transparency in product labeling and our customers have been taking steps to address this demand, including by voluntarily providing product-specific ingredients disclosure. These two trends could affect the. 14. types and volumes of our flavors and fragrances that our customers include in their product offerings. If we are unable to react to or anticipate these trends in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and future growth may be adversely affected.. We may not succeed in establishing and maintaining collaborations, joint ventures or partnerships, and such arrangements may not lead to development or commercialization of products, which may limit our ability to execute our Vision 2020 strategy and adversely affect our future growth.. From time to time and in line with our Vision 2020 strategy, we may evaluate and enter into collaborations, joint ventures or partnerships to enhance our research and development efforts. Our ability to generate revenues from such collaborations will depend on our partners' abilities and efforts to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements. The process of establishing and maintaining collaborative relationships is difficult, time-consuming to negotiate, document and implement. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish and implement collaborations or other alternative arrangements should we choose to enter into such arrangements, and the terms of the arrangements may not be favorable to us. Additionally, collaborations may not lead to development or commercialization of products in the most efficient manner, or at all. If we are unable to establish and maintain collaborative relationships on acceptable terms or to successfully transition terminated collaborative agreements, it could limit our ability to execute our Vision 2020 strategy and adversely affect our future growth.. We have made investments in and continue to expand our business into emerging markets, which exposes us to certain risks.. As part of our growth strategy, we have increased our presence in emerging markets by expanding our manufacturing presence, sales organization and product offerings in these markets, and we expect to continue to expand our business in these markets. In addition to the currency and international operation risks described below, our operations in these markets may be subject to a variety of other risks. Emerging markets typically have a consumer base with limited or fluctuating disposable income and customer demand in these markets may fluctuate accordingly. As a result, decrease in customer demand in emerging markets may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute our growth strategy. In addition, emerging markets may have weak legal systems which may affect our ability to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights, exchange controls, unstable governments and privatization or other government actions that may affect taxes, subsidies and incentive programs and the flow of goods and currency. In conducting our business, we move products from one country to another and may provide services in one country from a subsidiary located in another country. Accordingly, we are vulnerable to abrupt changes in trade, customs and tax regimes in these markets that may have significant negative impacts on our financial condition and operating results.. The impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in the international markets in which we operate may negatively affect our results of operations.. We have significant operations outside the United States, the results of which are reported in the local currency and then translated into United States dollars at applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. The exchange rates between these currencies and the United States dollar have fluctuated and will continue to do so in the future. Changes in exchange rates between these local currencies and the United States dollar will affect the recorded levels of sales, profitability, assets and/or liabilities. Additionally, volatility in currency exchange rates may adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows or liquidity. Although we employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including sourcing strategies and a limited number of foreign currency hedging activities, we cannot guarantee that such hedging and risk management strategies will be effective, and our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our international operations are subject to regulatory, political and other risks that could materially and adversely affect our revenues, cash flows or financial position.. We operate on a global basis, with manufacturing and sales facilities in the United States, Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Latin America, and Greater Asia. During 2017, 75% of our net sales were to customers outside the United States and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. As a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations. These risks, which can vary substantially by location, include the following:. • governmental laws, regulations and policies adopted to manage national economic and macroeconomic conditions, such as increases in taxes, austerity measures that may impact consumer spending, monetary policies that may impact inflation rates, currency fluctuations and sustainability of resources;. 15. • changes in environmental, health and safety regulations, such as the continued implementation of the European Union's REACH regulations and similar regulations that are being evaluated and adopted in other markets, and the burdens and costs of our compliance with such regulations;. • the imposition of or changes in tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, by the United States or other Countries, which could adversely affect our cost or ability to import raw materials or export our flavors or fragrances to surrounding markets;. • risks and costs arising from language and cultural differences;. • changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in the countries in which we operate, including the risk of expropriation or nationalization, and the costs and ability to repatriate the profit that we generate in these countries;. • risks and costs associated with political and economic instability, bribery and corruption, and social and ethnic unrest in the countries in which we operate;. • difficulty in recruiting and retaining trained local personnel;. • natural disasters, pandemics or international conflicts, including terrorist acts, or national and regional labor strikes in the countries in which we operate, which could interrupt our operations or endanger our personnel; or. • the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and regulations and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights.. The occurrence of any one or more of these factors could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations.. Economic uncertainty may adversely affect demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances and this may have a negative impact on our operating results and future growth.. Our flavors and fragrance compounds and ingredients are components of a wide assortment of global consumer products throughout the world. Historically, demand for consumer products using flavors and fragrances was stimulated and broadened by changing social habits and consumer needs, population growth, an expanding global middle-class and general economic growth, especially in emerging markets. The global economy has experienced significant recessionary pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. While some segments of the global economy appear to be recovering, the ongoing global recessionary economic environment in Europe has, and may in the near future, increase unemployment and underemployment, decrease salaries and wage rates, increase inflation or result in other market-wide cost pressures that will adversely affect demand for consumer products in both developed and emerging markets. In addition, growth rates in the emerging markets have moderated from previous levels. Reduced consumer spending may cause changes in our customer orders including reduced demand for our flavors and fragrances, or order cancellations.. The timing of placing of orders and the amounts of these orders are generally at our customers' discretion. Customers may cancel, reduce or postpone orders with us on relatively short notice. Significant cancellations, reductions or delays in orders by customers could affect our quarterly results.. It is currently anticipated that these challenging economic uncertainty will continue to affect certain of our markets during 2018 which could adversely affect our sales, profitability and overall operating results.. Our success depends on attracting and retaining talented people within our business. Significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention could adversely affect our ability to compete and achieve our strategic goals.. Attracting, developing, and retaining talented employees, including our perfumers and flavorists, is essential to the successful delivery of our products and success in the marketplace. Furthermore, as we continue to focus on innovation, our need for scientists and other professionals will increase. Competition for all these types of employees can be intense. The ability to attract and retain talented employees is critical in the development of new products and technologies which is an integral component of our growth strategy. However, we may not be able to attract and retain such employees in the future. If we experience significant shortfalls in recruitment or retention, our ability to effectively compete with our competitors and to grow our business could be adversely affected.. 16. Failure to comply with environmental protection laws may cause us to close, relocate or operate one or more of our plants at reduced production levels, which could adversely affect our operating results and future growth.. Our business operations and properties are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to protection of the environment, including air emissions, sewage discharges, the use of hazardous materials, waste disposal practices and clean-up of existing environmental contamination. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or any future changes to them may result in significant consequences to us, including the need to close or relocate one or more of our production facilities, administrative, civil and criminal penalties, liability for damages and negative publicity. If we are unable to meet production requirements, we can lose customer orders, which can adversely affect our future growth or we may be required to make incremental capital investments to ensure supply. For example, in 2015 Chinese authorities notified us of compliance issues pertaining to the emission of odors from several of our plants in China and, consequently, we invested approximately $6.5 million in odor-abatement equipment at these facilities and have located a site for construction of a second flavors manufacturing facility in China, with an estimated cost of $45 million. We have also recently completed negotiations with the Chinese government concerning the relocation of a second Fragrance facility in China. Idling of facilities or production modifications has caused or may cause customers to seek alternate suppliers due to concerns regarding supply interruptions and these customers may not return or may order at reduced levels even once issues are remediated. If these non-compliance issues reoccur in China or occur or in any other jurisdiction, we may lose business and may be required to incur capital spending above previous expectations, close a plant, or operate a plant at significantly reduced production levels on a permanent basis, and our operating results and cash flows from operations may be adversely affected.. Our ongoing optimization of our manufacturing facilities may not be as effective as we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the expected cost savings and increased efficiencies.. As part of our strategy, we seek to enhance our manufacturing efficiency and align our geographic manufacturing footprint with our expectations of future growth and technology needs. Many of our facilities are located in close proximity to our customers in order to minimize both our customers' and our own costs. However, we may not have sufficient demand to utilize all of our production capacity and may be required to ship excess products to other regions in which we operate, which will increase our costs and decrease our margins. To operate more efficiently and control costs, from time to time, we also execute rationalization activities, which include manufacturing facility consolidations. For example, we are in the midst of relocating our Flavors facility in Hangzhou, China, constructing a new facility in Indonesia and expect to begin relocating a Fragrance facility in China. We also recently broke ground on a new Flavors and Fragrances facility in India. The spending associated with these projects may result in capital spending above previous expectations. Our ability to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies and revenue enhancements from these activities may be affected by a number of factors and may pose significant risks, including:. • the risk that we may be unable to integrate successfully the relocated manufacturing operations;. • the risk that we may be unable to effectively reduce overhead, coordinate management and integrate and retain employees of the relocated manufacturing operations;. • the risk that we may face difficulties in implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems;. • potential strains on our personnel, systems and resources and diversion of attention from other priorities; and. • unforeseen or contingent liabilities of the relocated manufacturing operations.. Furthermore, our rationalization and consolidation actions may not be as effective as we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the cost savings we expect from these actions. Actual charges, costs and adjustments due to these activities may vary materially from our estimates, and these activities may require cash and non-cash integration and implementation costs or charges in excess of budgeted amounts, which could offset any such savings and other synergies and therefore could have an adverse effect on our margins.. Volatility and increases in the price of raw materials, energy and transportation could harm our profits.. We use many different raw materials for our business, including essential oils, extracts and concentrates derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods and other botanicals, animal products, raw fruits, organic chemicals and petroleum-based chemicals. Historically, we have experienced a considerable amount of price volatility in natural products that represent approximately half of our raw material purchases, and we expect this volatility to continue in the near future. For example, during and in 2017 we experienced increases in the prices of certain naturals, including citrus and vanilla. Availability and pricing of these natural products can be impacted by crop size and quality, weather, alternative land use, and other factors which we cannot control.. 17. If we are unable to increase the prices to our customers of our fragrance or flavor products to offset raw material and other input cost increases, or if we are unable to achieve cost savings to offset such cost increases, we could fail to meet our cost expectations and our profits and operating results could be adversely affected. Increases in prices of our products to customers may lead to declines in volume, and we may not be able to accurately predict the volume impact of price increases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Similarly, commodities and energy prices are subject to significant volatility caused by market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, production and transportation disruptions, and other world events. As we source many of our raw materials globally to help ensure quality control, if the cost of energy, shipping or transportation increases and we are unable to pass along these costs to our customers, our profit margins would be adversely affected. Furthermore, increasing our prices to our customers could result in long-term sales declines or loss of market share if our customers find alternative suppliers or choose to reformulate their consumer products to use fewer ingredients, which could have an adverse long-term impact on our results of operations.. To mitigate our sourcing risk, we maintain strategic stock levels for critical items. However, if we do not accurately estimate the amount of raw materials that will be used for the geographic region in which we will need these materials, our margins could be adversely affected.. If we are unable to maintain the integrity of our raw materials, supply chain and finished goods, or fail to comply with applicable regulations, it may result in regulatory non-compliance, litigation costs, customer loss and harm to our reputation, all of which may adversely impact sales and our results of operations.. The development, manufacture and sale of our products are subject to various regulatory requirements in each of the countries in which our products are developed, manufactured and sold. In addition, we are subject to product safety and compliance requirements established by the industry or similar oversight bodies. We use a variety of strategies, methodologies and tools to (i) identify current product standards, (ii) assess relative risks in our supply chain that can impact product integrity, (iii) monitor internal and external performance and (iv) test raw materials and finished goods to minimize the likelihood of product or process non-compliance.. Gaps in our operational processes or those of our suppliers could adversely affect the quality of our finished products, subject us to a recall and result in a regulatory non-compliance event. For instance, we may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged, and certain of our raw materials could be blocked from entering a country if they are subject to import alerts. Product non-compliance events could subject us to customer claims, recalls, penalties, litigation costs and settlements, remediation costs or loss of sales. As our flavors and fragrance compounds and ingredients are used in many products intended for human use or consumption, these consequences would be exacerbated if we or our customer did not identify the defect before the product reaches the consumer and there was a resulting impact at the consumer level. Such a result could lead to potentially large scale adverse publicity, negative effects on consumer's health, recalls and potential consumer litigation. In addition, if we do not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification from suppliers or other third parties, or if insurance or indemnification is not available, the liability relating to product or possible third-party claims arising from defective products could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, adverse publicity about our products, or our customers' products that contain our ingredients, including concerns about product safety or similar issues, whether real or perceived, could harm our reputation and result in an immediate adverse effect on our sales and customer relationships, as well as require us to utilize significant resources to rebuild our reputation.. Our performance may be adversely impacted if we are not successful in managing our inventory and/or working capital balances.. We evaluate our inventory balances of materials based on shelf life, expected sourcing levels, known uses and anticipated demand based on forecasted customer order activity and changes in our product/sales mix. Efficient inventory management is a key component of our business success, financial returns and profitability. To be successful, we must maintain sufficient inventory levels and an appropriate product/sales mix to meet our customers' demands, without allowing those levels to increase to such an extent that the costs associated with storing and holding other inventory adversely impact our financial results. If our buying decisions do not accurately predict sourcing levels, customer trends or our expectations about customer needs are inaccurate, we may have to take unanticipated markdowns or impairment charges to dispose of the excess or obsolete inventory, which can adversely impact our financial results. Additionally, we believe excess inventory levels of raw materials with a short shelf life in our manufacturing facilities subjects us to the risk of increased inventory shrinkage. If we are not successful in managing our inventory balances and shrinkage, our results of and cash flows from operations may be negatively affected.. 18. We sell certain accounts receivable on a non-recourse basis to unrelated financial institutions under \"factoring\" agreements that are sponsored, solely and individually, by certain customers. The cost of participating in these programs was immaterial to our results in all periods. Should we choose not to participate, or if these programs were no longer available, it could reduce our cash flows from operations in the period in which the arrangement ends.. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar U.S. or foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate.. The global nature of our business, the significance of our international revenue and our focus on emerging markets create various domestic and local regulatory challenges and subject us to risks associated with our international operations. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations in other countries generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or for other commercial advantage. In addition, U.S. public companies are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent their transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Under the FCPA, U.S. companies may be held liable for the corrupt actions taken by directors, officers, employees, agents, or other strategic or local partners or representatives. As such, if we or our intermediaries fail to comply with the requirements of the FCPA or similar legislation, governmental authorities in the United States and elsewhere could seek to impose substantial civil and/or criminal fines and penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition.. We operate or may pursue opportunities in some jurisdictions, such as China, India, Brazil and Africa, which pose potentially elevated risks of fraud or corruption or increased risk of internal control issues. In certain jurisdictions, compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. From time to time, we have conducted and will conduct internal investigations of the relevant facts and circumstances, control testing and compliance reviews, and take remedial actions, when appropriate, to help ensure that we are in compliance with applicable corruption and similar laws and regulations. Detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations of the FCPA or similar laws is expensive and could consume significant time and attention of our senior management. We could be subject to inquiries or investigations by government and other regulatory bodies. Any allegations of non-compliance with the FCPA or similar laws could have a disruptive effect on our operations in such jurisdiction over the near term, including interruptions of business or loss of third-party relationships, which may negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition. Any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with the FCPA or similar laws could expose us to severe criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, significant fines, termination of necessary licenses and permits, and penalties or other sanctions that may harm our business and reputation.. Our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights.. We rely on patents and trade secrets to protect our intellectual property rights. We often rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary fragrance and flavor formulations, as this does not require us to publicly file information regarding our intellectual property. From time to time, a third party may claim that we have infringed upon or misappropriated their intellectual property rights, or a third party may infringe upon or misappropriate our intellectual property rights. We could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions to assert our intellectual property rights against third parties or to defend ourselves from third party assertions of invalidity, infringement or misappropriation or other claims. Any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from such litigation could require us to obtain a license to continue to use the intellectual property rights that are the subject of the claim, or otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of such intellectual property rights. Any required licensing fees may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. For those intellectual property rights that are protected as trade secrets, this litigation could result in even higher costs, and potentially the loss of certain rights, since we would not have a perfected intellectual property right that precludes others from making, using or selling our products or processes. The ongoing trend among our customers towards more transparent labeling could further diminish our ability to effectively protect our proprietary flavor formulations.. For intellectual property rights that we seek to protect through patents, we cannot be certain that these rights, if obtained, will not later be opposed, invalidated, or circumvented. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the United States, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If other parties were to infringe on our intellectual property rights, or if a third party successfully asserted that we had infringed on their intellectual property rights, it could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations by (i) reducing the price that we could obtain in the marketplace for products which are based on such rights, (ii) increasing the royalty or other fees that we may be required to pay in connection with such rights or (iii) limiting the volume, if any, of such products that we can sell.. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted by the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation.. 19. From time to time we are involved in a number of legal claims and litigation, including claims related to intellectual property, product liability, environmental matters and indirect taxes. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such litigation. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that future events will not result in an increase in the number of claims or require an increase in the amount accrued for any such claims, or require accrual for one or more claims that has not been previously accrued. In addition, if we were found liable, we could be subject to certain indemnification claims. There can be no assurance that our insurance will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to pending and future claims or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices.. The level of returns on pension and postretirement plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods. Changes in government regulations could also affect our pension and postretirement plan expenses and funding requirements.. The funding obligations for our pension plans are impacted by the performance of the financial markets, particularly the equity markets, and interest rates. Funding obligations are determined under government regulations and are measured each year based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date. If the financial markets do not provide the long-term returns that are expected under the governmental funding calculations, we could be required to make larger contributions. The equity markets can be very volatile, and therefore our estimate of future contribution requirements can change dramatically in relatively short periods of time. Similarly, changes in interest rates and legislation enacted by governmental authorities can impact the timing and amounts of contribution requirements. An adverse change in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase our required contributions in the future and adversely impact our liquidity.. Assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined by us in consultation with outside consultants and advisors. In the event that we determine that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on assets, or expected health care costs, our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses could increase or decrease. Due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the assumptions that we use may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on our pension and postretirement liabilities and related costs and funding requirements.. Any future impairment of our tangible or intangible long-lived assets may adversely impact our profitability.. A significant portion of our assets consists of long-lived assets, including tangible assets such as our manufacturing facilities, and intangible assets and goodwill. As of December 31, 2017, we had recorded approximately $1.6 billion of intangible assets and goodwill including goodwill and intangible assets related to our acquisitions. Long-lived assets are subject to an impairment analysis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Additionally, goodwill is subject to an impairment test at least annually. Indicators such as under performance relative to historical or projected future operating results, changes in the Company's strategy for its overall business or use of acquired assets, unexpected negative industry or economic trends, decreased market capitalization relative to net book values, unanticipated competitive activities, change in consumer demand, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts may signal that an asset has become impaired. To the extent any of our acquisitions do not perform as anticipated, whether due to internal or external factors, the value of such assets may be negatively affected and we may be required to record impairment charges. Our results of operations and financial position in future periods could be negatively impacted should future impairments of our long-lived assets, including intangible assets or goodwill occur.. Changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new United States or international tax legislation, or changes in existing tax laws could expose us to additional tax liabilities that may affect our future results.. We are subject to taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in liabilities for uncertain tax positions, cost of repatriations or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. We have and will continue to implement transfer pricing policies among our various operations located in different countries. These transfer pricing policies are a significant component of the management and compliance of our operations across international boundaries and overall financial results. Many countries routinely examine transfer pricing policies of taxpayers subject to their jurisdiction, challenge transfer pricing policies aggressively where there is potential non-compliance and impose significant interest charges and penalties where non-compliance is determined. There can be no assurance that a governmental authority will not challenge these policies more aggressively in the future or, if challenged, that we will prevail. We could suffer significant costs related to one or more challenges to our transfer pricing policies.. 20. We are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and foreign tax authorities in those countries in which we operate, and we may be subject to assessments or audits in the future in any of the countries in which we operate. The final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals, and while we do not believe the results that follow would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, such results could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods in which that determination is made.. In addition, a number of international legislative and regulatory bodies have proposed legislation and begun investigations of the tax practices of multi-national companies and, in the European Union (\"EU\"), the tax policies of certain EU member states. One of these efforts has been led by the OECD, an international association of 34 countries including the United States, which has finalized recommendations to revise corporate tax, transfer pricing, and tax treaty provisions in member countries. Since 2013, the European Commission (\"EC\") has been investigating tax rulings granted by tax authorities in a number of EU member states with respect to specific multi-national corporations to determine whether such rulings comply with EU rules on state aid, as well as more recent investigations of the tax regimes of certain EU member states. Under EU law, selective tax advantages for particular taxpayers that are not sufficiently grounded in economic realities may constitute impermissible state aid. If the EC determines that a tax ruling or tax regime violates the state aid restrictions, the tax authorities of the affected EU member state may be required to collect back taxes for the period of time covered by the ruling. In late 2015 and early 2016, the EC declared that tax rulings, related to other companies, by tax authorities in Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Belgium did not comply with the EU state aid restrictions. If the EC were to successfully challenge tax rulings applicable to us in any of the EU member states in which we are subject to taxation, we could be exposed to increased tax liabilities.. The recently adopted US tax legislation may result in additional tax liabilities that may affect our future results and profitability.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") that significantly revises the U.S. tax code effective January 1, 2018 by, among other things, lowering the corporate income tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat 21%, limiting deductibility of interest expense and performance based incentive compensation, transitioning to a territorial system and creating new taxes associated with global operations. The Tax Act impacted our consolidated results of operations during the 2017 fourth quarter and is expected to continue to impact our consolidated results of operations in future periods. In particular, the transition to the new territorial tax system required us to record a one-time tax or \"toll charge\" which resulted in a provisional incremental tax expense of $100.6 million principally related to previously unremitted earnings on non-U.S. subsidiaries. The cash portion of the \"toll charge\" will be payable in installments over 8 years beginning in 2018. In addition, the reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate resulted in a provisional net deferred tax expense of $38.6 million related to the remeasurement of net deferred tax assets as a result of the reduction in the corporate income tax rate. Given the significant complexity of the Tax Act, anticipated guidance from the U.S. Treasury about implementing the Tax Act and the potential for additional guidance from the SEC or the FASB, the Company's provisional charge may be adjusted during 2018 and is expected to be finalized no later than the fourth quarter of 2018. Other provisions of the Tax Act that impact future tax years are still being assessed. Any material revisions in the Company's computations could adversely affect its cash flows and results of operations.. In future periods, we expect that our effective tax rate will be impacted by the lower U.S. corporate tax rate that will initially be offset by the elimination of the deductibility of performance based incentive compensation, and other provisions of the Tax Act that may impact us prospectively. However, the ultimate impact of the Tax Act will depend on additional regulatory or accounting guidance that may be issued with respect to the Tax Act and any operating and structural changes that we may undertake to permit us to benefit from the new, lower U.S. tax rate prospectively. This could adversely affect our results of operations.. The potential government regulation of certain of our product development initiatives is uncertain, and we may be subject to adverse consequences if we fail to comply with applicable regulations.. As part of our ingredients research program, we seek to collaborate with research institutions and companies throughout the world, including biotechnology companies. However, it is unclear whether any of our product developments will be classified as genetically modified food products subject to regulation as a biotechnology product. The manufacture of biotechnology products is subject to applicable Current Good Manufacturing Practice (CGMP) regulations as prescribed by the Food and Drug Administration and the applicable standards prescribed by European Commission and the competent authorities of European Union Member States and to other rules and regulations prescribed by foreign regulatory authorities. Compliance with these regulations can be expensive and time consuming. Such regulation could also subject us to requirements for labeling and traceability, which may cause our customers to avoid our affected products and seek our. 21. competitors' products. This may result in our inability to realize any benefit from our investment and have an adverse effect on our operating results.. The United Kingdom's expected departure from the European Union in 2019 could have an adverse effect on us.. In June 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which a majority of voters voted to exit the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit\" and negotiations are underway to determine the terms of the U.K.'s withdrawal from the European Union. A withdrawal could, among other outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the U.K. and the European Union, undermine bilateral cooperation in key geographic areas and significantly disrupt trade between the U.K. and the European Union or other nations as the U.K. pursues independent trade relations. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate. The effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to European Union or other markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. Given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade and legal implications the withdrawal of the U.K. from the European Union would have and how such withdrawal would affect us. Adverse consequences concerning Brexit or the European Union could include deterioration in global economic conditions, instability in global financial markets, political uncertainty, volatility in currency exchange rates, or adverse changes in the cross-border agreements currently in place, any of which could have an adverse impact on our financial results in the future."
