[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Risk Factors. An investment in the Company's common stock involves risks.  The following is a description of the material risks and uncertainties that the Company believes affect its business and an investment in its common stock.  If any of the risks described below were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.  If this were to happen, the value of the common stock could decline significantly and all or part of an investment could be lost.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our allowance for probable loan losses may be insufficient.. The determination of an appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions.  This allowance represents management's best estimate of probable losses that may exist within our existing loan portfolio.  The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for probable loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions regarding current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes.  In addition, if future charge-offs exceed the allowance for probable loan losses, we may need to increase the allowance for probable loan losses.  Any increases in the allowance for probable loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If real estate values in our target markets decline, the loan portfolio would be impaired.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio consists of loans secured by real estate located in the markets we serve.  An adverse change in the economy affecting real estate values generally or in our target markets could significantly impair the value of collateral underlying certain of our loans and our ability to sell the collateral at a profit or at all upon foreclosure.. We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area.. We face substantial competition from a variety of different competitors in our market areas, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources.  These competitors include national, regional and community banks within the various markets we serve.  We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including credit. 22. Table of Contents. unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries.  Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures, which may allow them to offer better pricing on a broader range of products and services.  Also, technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods.  The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and related income.  The loss of revenue streams and the reduction of lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. External funding which we rely on, in part, to provide liquidity may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all.. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost.  We rely on deposits, repurchase agreements, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) of Dallas, the FHLB of Topeka and other borrowings to meet our liquidity demands.  If we were unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, we might be unable to meet customers' needs, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity, and level of regulatory-qualifying capital.  Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry.. Our earnings are subject to interest rate risk.. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the FRB.  Changes in monetary policy, interest rates, the yield curve, or market risk spreads, a prolonged inverted yield curve or instability in domestic or foreign financial markets could negatively influence the interest we receive on loans and securities, as well as the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings.  If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected.  Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings.  Any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to or may become subject to extensive government regulation and supervision.. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations.  These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices and dividend policy and growth, among other things.  The statutory and regulatory framework under which we operate has changed substantially as the result of the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act.  These changes and other changes to statutes and regulations, including changes in the interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect our operations in substantial and unpredictable ways.  Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products.  Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our potential future acquisitions and branch expansion could be adversely affected by a number of factors.. Acquisitions of other financial institutions and branch expansion have been a key element of our growth in the past.  There are a number of factors that may impact our ability to continue to grow through acquisition transactions, including strong competition from other financial institutions who are active or potential acquirers of financial institutions in our existing or future markets.  Acquisitions of other financial institutions and new branches must be approved by bank regulators and such approvals are dependent on many factors, including the results of regulatory examinations and CRA ratings.. 23. Table of Contents. We rely heavily on our chief executive officer.. We have experienced substantial growth in assets and deposits, particularly since Dennis E. Nixon became our President in 1979. We do not have an employment agreement with Mr. Nixon and the loss of his services could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects.. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business.  Our products and services involve the gathering, storage and transition of sensitive information regarding our customers and their accounts.  While we conduct our own data processing, we are reliant on certain external vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain our day to day operations. As a financial institution we are also subject to and examined for compliance with an array of data protection laws, regulations and guidance, as well as our own internal privacy and information security policies and programs. If our information systems or infrastructure experience a significant disruption or breach, it could lead to unauthorized access to personal or confidential information of our customers in our possession and unauthorized access to our proprietary information, methodologies and business secrets. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems.  In addition, if our partners, vendors, or other market participants experience a disruption or breach, it could lead to unauthorized transactions on our or our customer accounts, or unauthorized access to personal or confidential information maintained by those entities.  The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of these information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Additional capital or funding to increase liquidity levels may not be available when needed or at all.. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and our financial performance.  We have historically had access to a number of alternative sources of liquidity, but if there is an increase in volatility in the credit and liquidity markets similar to 2008, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such liquidity on terms that are favorable to us, or at all.  If we were unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, we might be unable to meet customers' needs, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity, and level of regulatory-qualifying capital.. Our holding company relies on dividends from our Subsidiary Banks for most of our revenue.. Our holding company receives substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our Subsidiary Banks.  These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock to shareholders of our holding company, as well as interest and principal on our holding company's debt.  Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our Subsidiary Banks may pay to our holding company.  Our Subsidiary Banks' ability to pay dividends to us is subject to, among other thing, their earnings, financial condition and need for funds, as well as federal and state governmental policies and regulations applicable to our holding company and Subsidiary Banks which limit the amount that may be paid as dividends without prior regulatory approval, including a statutory requirement that our holding company serve as a source of financial strength for our Subsidiary Banks.  Although our holding company has historically declared semi-annual cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or cease to pay common stock dividends in the future.  If we reduce or cease to pay common stock dividends, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected.. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business.. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. These events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and cause us to incur additional expenses. Although we have established disaster recovery policies and procedures, a severe weather event, natural disaster or other external event in or near the markets we serve could have a material adverse effect on our business.. 24. Table of Contents. An impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill could negatively impact our earnings and capital.. Goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. If we experience disruption in our business, unexpected significant declines in our operating results, or sustained market capitalization declines, it could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future, which would be recorded as charges against earnings. We performed an annual goodwill impairment assessment as of October 1, 2017. Based on our analyses, we concluded that the fair value of our reporting units exceeded the carrying value of our assets and liabilities and, therefore, goodwill was not considered impaired. Depending on the response of the financial industry to the legal, regulatory and competitive changes related to interchange fees, overdraft services and interest on demand deposit accounts, financial institutions may need to change their policies, procedures and operating plans in the future to compete more effectively.  Such changes may require certain financial institutions to take a goodwill impairment charge to account for anticipated reduction in revenue related to such changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.. We are subject to environmental liability risks as a result of certain lending activities.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. There is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental remediation may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and for evaluating and reporting on its system of internal controls.  While management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures, any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks.. From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. Compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our accounting estimates and risk management processes rely on analytical and forecasting tools and models.. The processes we use to estimate probable loan losses and to measure the fair value of financial instruments, as well as the processes used to estimate the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and results of operations, depends upon the use of analytical tools and forecasting models. These tools and models reflect assumptions that may not be accurate, particularly in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances. Even if these assumptions are adequate, the tools or models may prove to be inadequate or inaccurate because of other flaws in their design or their implementation. Any such failure in our analytical or forecasting tools or models could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 25. Table of Contents. We may be adversely affected by declining crude oil prices.. Decreased market oil prices have compressed margins for many U.S.,  Texas and Oklahoma - based oil producers, particularly those that utilize higher - cost production technologies such as hydraulic fracking and horizontal drilling, as well as oilfield service providers, energy equipment manufacturers and transportation suppliers, among others. Energy production and related industries represent a large part of the economies in some of our primary markets. Furthermore, a prolonged period of low oil prices could also have a negative impact on the U.S. economy and, in particular, the economies of energy dominant states such as Texas and Oklahoma. Accordingly, a prolonged period of low oil prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. Risks Related to the Company's Industry. Our success depends significantly on economic conditions in the local markets in which we operate.. Our success depends, to a certain extent, on local, national and international economic and political conditions and local, as well as governmental monetary policies. We are particularly affected by conditions in our primary market areas of south, central and southeast Texas, including Austin, Dallas and Houston, the State of Oklahoma and Mexico. If economic conditions in these market areas weaken or worsen due to a decline in oil prices or other factors, or fail to improve or to continue to improve, we could experience an increase in loan delinquencies and non - performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and services, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties as well as the soundness of other financial institutions.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. We also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties, financial institutions or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information or problems with the soundness of other financial institutions with which we interact could have a material adverse impact on our business and our financial condition and results of operations.. If we do not adjust to rapid changes in the financial services industry, our financial performance may suffer.. Our ability to deliver strong financial performance and returns on investment to shareholders will depend in part on our ability to expand the scope of available financial services to meet the needs and demands of our customers and our ability to stay abreast of technological innovations and evaluate those technologies that will enable us to compete on a cost - effective basis.    In addition to traditional banks,  our competitors also include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, specialty finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one - stop financial services that may include services that banks have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past. The continued competitive environment in our industry is primarily a result of changes in regulation, technology and product delivery systems, and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Changes in the financial industry may result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.    Further, the costs of new technology, including personnel, can be high in both absolute and relative terms. There can be no assurance, given the fast pace of change and innovation, that our technology will meet or continue to meet our operational needs and the needs of our customers.. We are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to intellectual property.. Banking and other financial services companies, including us and our Subsidiary Banks, rely on technology companies to provide information technology products and services necessary to support our day - to - day operations. Technology companies frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of. 26. Table of Contents. intellectual property rights. Such claims may increase in the future as the financial services sector becomes more reliant on information technology vendors. The plaintiffs in these actions frequently seek injunctions and substantial damages.. Regardless of the scope or validity of such patents or other intellectual property rights, or the merits of any claims by potential or actual litigants, we may have to engage in protracted litigation. Such litigation is often expensive, time - consuming, disruptive to our operations, and distracting to management. If legal matters related to intellectual property claims were resolved against us,  we could be required to make payments in amounts that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Dodd - Frank Act, the powers of the CFPB, and the FDIC Overdraft Payment Supervisory Guidance may increase the likelihood of lawsuits against financial institutions.. The Dodd - Frank Act provides that courts must make preemption determinations on a case - by - case basis with the respect to particular state laws and can no longer rely on blanket preemption determinations. Also, the CFPB is authorized to protect consumers from \"unfair,\" \"deceptive\" and \"abusive\" acts and practices. Depending on the future actions of the CFPB, the likelihood of lawsuits against financial institutions related to allegedly \"unfair,\" \"deceptive\" and \"abusive\" acts and practices could increase. Moreover, the costs related to such lawsuits would be significantly increased if the CFPB restricts the use of arbitration and/or class action waivers in consumer banking contracts.. Risks Related to the Company's Stock. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile.. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated over time due in part to actual or anticipated variations in our earnings, changes in government regulations, policies and guidance, news reports of trends, concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry, operating and stock performance of our peer companies, new technology used or services offered by traditional and non-traditional competitors, continued low trading volume in our common stock, the impact of short selling activity in our common stock and reports of trends, concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry.  Moreover, general market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. The holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our shareholders.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $160 million in junior subordinated debentures outstanding that were purchased by our statutory trusts using the proceeds from the sale of trust preferred securities to third party investors. The junior subordinated debentures are senior to our shares of common stock.  Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by us to the extent not paid or made by each trust.  We must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on our common stock. While we have the right to defer interest payments on the junior subordinated debentures at any time no dividends may be paid to holders of our common stock during any such deferral, which could cause the trading price of our stock to decline.. The exercise of warrants in connection with our participation in the CPP could negatively impact the market price for our common stock.. In connection with our sale of Senior Preferred Stock under the Capital Purchase Program, we also issued a warrant to purchase 1,326,238 shares of our common stock, which expires on December 23, 2018.  While we have repurchased all of the Senior Preferred Stock, the warrant remains outstanding and was sold to a third party in 2013.  The dilutive impact of the warrant may have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock."
