[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Forward-looking statements. This report contains forward-looking statements. The documents incorporated into this report by reference may also contain forward-looking statements. You can identify a forward-looking statement by our use of the words \"anticipate,\" \"estimate,\" \"expect,\" \"may,\" \"believe,\" \"objective,\" \"projection,\" \"forecast,\" \"goal,\" and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements include our statements regarding the timing of future events, our anticipated future operations and our anticipated future financial position and cash requirements.. We believe that the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable. However, we do not know whether our expectations will ultimately prove correct.. In the section that follows below, in cautionary statements made elsewhere in this report, and in other filings we have made with the SEC, we list the important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of the risk factors described below and other factors set forth in or incorporated by reference in this report.. 5. Table of Contents. These factors and cautionary statements apply to all future forward-looking statements we make. Many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. Do not put undue reliance on forward-looking statements or project any future results based on such statements or on present or prior earnings levels.. Additional information concerning these or other factors, which could cause the actual results to differ materially from those in our forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in our other SEC filings. Copies of those filings are available from us and/or the SEC.. France Family Group control of NASCAR may create conflicts of interest. Members of the France Family Group own and control NASCAR. James C. France, our Chairman of the Board, and Lesa France Kennedy, our Vice Chairwoman and Chief Executive Officer, are both members of the France Family Group in addition to holding positions with NASCAR. Each of them, as well as our general counsel and chief marketing officer, spends part of his or her time on NASCAR's business. Because of these relationships, even though all related party transactions are approved by our Audit Committee, certain potential conflicts of interest between us and NASCAR exist with respect to, among other things:. • The terms of any sanctioning agreements that may be awarded to us by NASCAR;. • The amount of time the employees mentioned above and certain of our other employees devote to NASCAR's affairs; and. • The amounts charged or paid to NASCAR for office rental, transportation costs, shared executives, administrative expenses and similar items.. France Family Group members, together, beneficially own approximately 41.6 percent of our capital stock and control approximately 74.1 percent of the combined voting power of both classes of our common stock. Historically, members of the France Family Group have voted their shares of common stock in the same manner. Accordingly, they can (without the approval of our other shareholders) elect our entire Board of Directors and determine the outcome of various matters submitted to shareholders for approval, including fundamental corporate transactions and have done so in the past. If holders of Class B common stock other than the France Family Group elect to convert their beneficially owned shares of Class B common stock into shares of Class A common stock and members of the France Family Group do not convert their shares, the relative voting power of the France Family Group will increase. Voting control by the France Family Group may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us, including transactions in which the holders of Class A common stock might receive a premium for their shares over prevailing market prices.. Adverse changes in our relationships with NASCAR and other motorsports sanctioning bodies, or their sanctioning practices, could limit our future success. Our success has been, and is expected to remain, dependent on maintaining good working relationships with the organizations that sanction the races we promote at our facilities, particularly NASCAR. NASCAR-sanctioned races conducted at our wholly owned motorsports entertainment facilities accounted for approximately 89.3 percent of our total revenues in fiscal 2017. Through 2014, each NASCAR sanctioning agreement (and the accompanying media rights fees revenue) was awarded on an annual basis.  In 2015, we entered into sanctioning agreements with five year terms, through 2020, with NASCAR Event Management, Inc. (\"NEM\"), an affiliate of NASCAR, for the promotion of our inventory of NASCAR Cup, Xfinity and Camping World Truck Series events. NASCAR is not required to continue to enter into, renew or extend these five year sanctioning agreements with us to conduct any event. These agreements may be terminated by NASCAR due to a breach by us or should we be unable to comply with the terms thereof.  Any adverse change in these sanctioning practices, or the economic structure of the NASCAR industry, could adversely impact our operations and revenue. Moreover, while we may pursue the possible development and/or acquisition of additional motorsports entertainment facilities in the future, we have no assurance that any sanctioning body, including NASCAR, will enter into sanctioning agreements with us to conduct races at any newly developed or acquired motorsports entertainment facilities. Failure to obtain a sanctioning agreement for a major NASCAR event could negatively affect us. Similarly, although NASCAR has in the past approved our requests for realignment of sanctioned events within our portfolio, NASCAR is not obligated to modify its race schedules to allow us to schedule our races more efficiently or profitably.. Changes to media rights revenues could adversely affect us. Domestic broadcast and certain ancillary media rights fee revenues derived from NASCAR's three national touring series -- the Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series, Xfinity Series, and Camping World Truck Series -- are an important component of our revenue and earnings stream and any adverse changes to such rights fee revenues could adversely impact our results.. 6. Table of Contents. Any material changes in the media industry that could lead to differences in historical practices or decreases in the term and/or financial value of future broadcast agreements, such as a significant decrease in subscriber fees or advertising revenues due to changing consumer habits, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial results.. Changes, declines and delays in consumer and corporate spending as well as illiquid credit markets could adversely affect us. Our financial results depend significantly upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer and corporate spending, including economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income and corporate budgets such as:. • Employment;. • Business and general economic conditions;. • Interest rates; and. • Taxation rates.. These factors can impact both attendance at our events and advertising and marketing dollars available from the motorsports industry's principal sponsors and potential sponsors. Economic and other lifestyle conditions such as illiquid consumer and business credit markets adversely affect consumer and corporate spending thereby impacting our revenue, profitability and financial results. Further, changes in consumer behavior such as deferred purchasing decisions and decreased spending budgets adversely impact our cash flow visibility and revenues. For example, the significant economic deterioration that began in fiscal 2008 and the Great Recession significantly impacted these areas of our business and our revenues and financial results.. Unavailability of credit on favorable terms, if at all, can adversely impact our growth, development and capital spending plans. General economic conditions may be significantly and negatively impacted by global events such as terrorist attacks, prospects of war, or global economic uncertainty. A weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence created by such a climate, could adversely affect our financial results. Finally, our financial results could also be adversely impacted by a widespread outbreak of a severe epidemiological crisis.. Delay, postponement or cancellation of major motorsports events because of weather could adversely affect us. We promote outdoor motorsports entertainment events. Weather conditions affect sales of, among other things, tickets, food, drinks and merchandise at these events. Poor weather conditions prior to an event, or even the forecast of poor weather conditions, could have a negative impact on us, particularly for walk-up ticket sales to events which are not sold out in advance. If an event scheduled for one of our facilities is delayed or postponed because of weather, we could incur increased expenses associated with conducting the rescheduled event, as well as possible decreased revenues from tickets, food, drinks and merchandise at the rescheduled event.  Moreover, the forecast of poor weather conditions and/or the delay or postponement of an event due to weather conditions could have a negative impact on renewals for the following year. If such an event is canceled, we would incur the expenses associated with preparing to conduct the event as well as losing all, or a portion of, the revenues associated with the event.. If a canceled event is part of the Monster Energy NASCAR Cup, Xfinity or Camping World Truck series, in the year of cancellation we could experience a reduction in the amount of money we expect to receive from television revenues for all of our NASCAR-sanctioned events in the series that experienced the cancellation. This would occur if, as a result of the cancellation, and without regard to whether the canceled event was scheduled for one of our facilities, NASCAR experienced a reduction in television revenues greater than the amount scheduled to be paid to the promoter of the canceled event.. Terrorism and/or fear of violence or attacks at mass gatherings could adversely affect us. Acts of terrorism or violence at mass gatherings or sporting events, prospects of war, global economic uncertainty, or a widespread outbreak of a severe epidemiological crisis, resulting in public fears regarding attendance at sporting events or mass gatherings, could negatively impact attendance at our events.  Any one of these items could increase our expenses related to insurance, security and other related matters. In addition, the delay, postponement or cancellation of major motorsports events could have an adverse impact on us such as increased expenses associated with conducting the rescheduled event, as well as possible decreased revenues from tickets, food, drinks and merchandise at the rescheduled event.  Similar to a delay, postponement or cancellation of major motorsports events, if such an event is canceled, we would incur the expenses associated with preparing to conduct the event as well as losing all, or a portion of, the revenues associated with the event.. 7. Table of Contents. Our success depends on the availability and performance of key personnel. Our continued success depends upon the availability and performance of our senior management team, which possesses unique and extensive industry knowledge and experience. Our inability to retain and attract key employees in the future could have a negative effect on our operations and business plans.. Our capital allocation plan may not achieve anticipated results. Enhancing the live event experience for our guests by investing in our major motorsports facilities is a critical strategy for our growth. We continue to operate under a five-year capital allocation plan adopted by the Board of Directors, covering fiscal years 2017 through 2021.  Components of this plan include funding for the redevelopment of Phoenix (see \"The ISM Raceway Project Powered by DC Solar\") and the infield at Richmond (see \"Richmond Raceway\") with completion for both projects targeted in late 2018, the completion of the development project ONE DAYTONA and strategic reinvestment in our motorsports facilities. The aforementioned five-year capital plan is built upon the merits of the Board of Directors' previously endorsed capital allocation plan for fiscal 2013 through fiscal 2017, which included DAYTONA Rising. These capital allocation plans involve significant challenges and risks including that the projects do not advance our business strategy or that we do not realize a satisfactory return on our investment. It may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits from these projects, such as increased revenue, or the benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized. These events could harm our operating results or financial condition.. Future impairment or loss on disposal of goodwill and other intangible assets or long-lived assets by us or our equity investments and joint ventures could adversely affect our financial results. Our consolidated balance sheets include significant amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets and long-lived assets which could be subject to impairment or loss on retirement. During the fiscal years ended November 30, 2015, 2016 and 2017 we recorded before-tax charges as losses on retirements of long-lived assets primarily attributable to the removal of certain other long-lived assets located at our motorsports facilities totaling approximately $16.0 million, $2.9 million and $10.6 million, respectively. As part of our capital projects process, we identify existing assets that are impacted and require the acceleration of their remaining useful lives. During the fiscal years ended November 30, 2015, 2016, we recorded approximately $6.8 million and zero, respectively, of accelerated depreciation.  During fiscal 2017, we recorded approximately $6.2 million of accelerated depreciation.. As of November 30, 2017, goodwill and other intangible assets and property and equipment accounts for approximately $1.8 billion, or 80.5 percent of our total assets. We account for our goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") 350, \"Intangibles  -  Goodwill and Other\", and for our long-lived assets in accordance with ASC 360, \"Property, Plant and Equipment.\" Both ASC 350 and 360 require testing goodwill and other intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment based on assumptions regarding our future business outlook. While we continue to review and analyze many factors that can impact our business prospects in the future, our analyses are subjective and are based on conditions existing at and trends leading up to the time the assumptions are made. Actual results could differ materially from these assumptions. Our judgments with regard to our future business prospects could impact whether or not an impairment is deemed to have occurred, as well as the timing of the recognition of such an impairment charge. If future testing for impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets or long-lived assets results in a reduction in their carrying value, we will be required to take the amount of the reduction in such goodwill and other intangible assets or long-lived assets as a non-cash charge against operating income, which would also reduce shareholders' equity.. In addition, our growth strategy includes investing in certain joint venture opportunities. In these equity investments we exert significant influence on the investee but do not have effective control over the investee. These equity investments add an additional element of risk where they may not advance our business strategy or that we do not realize a satisfactory return on our investment. It may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits from these equity investments, or the benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized. These events could harm our operating results or financial condition. Our equity investments total approximately $86.2 million at November 30, 2017.. Personal injuries to spectators and participants could adversely affect financial results. Motorsports can be dangerous to participants and spectators. We maintain insurance policies that provide coverage within limits that we believe should generally be sufficient to protect us from a large financial loss due to liability for personal injuries sustained by persons on our property in the ordinary course of our business. There can be no assurance, however, that the insurance will be adequate or available at all times and in all circumstances. Our financial condition and results of operations could be affected negatively to the extent claims and expenses in connection with these injuries are greater than insurance recoveries or if insurance coverage for these exposures becomes unavailable or prohibitively expensive.. 8. Table of Contents. In addition, sanctioning bodies could impose more stringent rules and regulations for safety, security and operational activities. Such regulations include, for example, the improvements and additions of energy absorbing retaining walls at our facilities, which have increased our capital expenditures, and increased safety and security procedures, which have increased our operational expenses.. We operate in a highly competitive environment. As an entertainment company, our racing events face competition from other spectator-oriented sporting events and other leisure, entertainment and recreational activities, including professional football, basketball, hockey and baseball. As a result, our revenues are affected by the general popularity of motorsports, the availability of alternative forms of recreation and changing consumer preferences and habits, including how consumers consume entertainment. Our racing events also compete with other racing events sanctioned by various racing bodies such as NASCAR, USAC, NHRA, SCCA, IMSA, ARCA and others. Many sports and entertainment businesses have resources that exceed ours.. We are subject to changing governmental regulations and legal standards that could increase our expenses. While we believe that our operations are in material compliance with all applicable federal, state and local environmental, laws and regulations, if it is determined that damage to persons or property or contamination of the environment has been caused or exacerbated by the operation or conduct of our business or by pollutants, substances, contaminants or wastes used, generated or disposed of by us, or if pollutants, substances, contaminants or wastes are found on property currently or previously owned or operated by us, we may be held liable for such damage and may be required to pay the cost of investigation and/or remediation of such contamination or any related damage. The amount of such liability as to which we are self-insured could be material.. State and local laws relating to the protection of the environment also can include noise abatement laws that may be applicable to our racing events.. Our existing facilities continue to be used in situations where the standards for new facilities to comply with certain laws and regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act, are constantly evolving. Changes in the provisions or application of federal, state or local environmental, land use or other laws, regulations or requirements to our facilities or operations, or the discovery of previously unknown conditions, also could require us to make additional material expenditures to remediate or attain compliance.. Regulations governing the use and development of real estate may prevent us from advancing certain of our business strategies, such as real estate development, and could also substantially delay, complicate and/or increase the costs related to the process of improving existing facilities.. Our business is subject to, and regulated by certain federal, state and foreign privacy and data protection laws and regulations.  Changes in regulations or regulatory activity related to the acquisition, storage and subsequent use of customer information and data may prevent us from advancing certain of our business strategies or can increase the costs necessary to comply with such regulations.. If we do not maintain the security of customer-related information, we could damage our reputation with customers, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store certain personal information in digital form, including but not limited to name, address and payment account information from individuals, such as our customers, employees and business partners.  We also process customer payment card transactions. In addition, our on-line operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential, personal and payment account information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. We limit the amount of payment information by using \"tokens\" which is an industry best practice that does not require the credit card number to be stored.  Significant resources are dedicated both internally and with external experts to help us manage information security, network security, data encryption, and other security practices to protect our systems and data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security.  As with all companies, these security measures are costly, require ongoing monitoring and rapid change due to technology advances, and are subject to third-party security breaches, cyber-terrorism, employee error or malfeasance, intrusion or other unanticipated situations. Such a compromise of our information systems that results in personal or payment network information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, the credit card brands (such as VISA, MasterCard and American Express) and others.  Such a compromise could also adversely affect our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us, the imposition of penalties, restrictions or other requirements by regulatory bodies or the credit card brands. In addition, a security systems breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our sales operations. While we maintain cyber liability insurance, not all losses would be covered by such insurance.  Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance at commercially reasonable rates.. 9. Table of Contents. Our quarterly results are subject to seasonality and variability. We derive most of our income from a limited number of NASCAR-sanctioned races. As a result, our business has been, and is expected to remain, highly seasonal based on the timing of major racing events. Future schedule changes as determined by NASCAR or other sanctioning bodies, as well as the acquisition of additional, or divestiture of existing, motorsports entertainment facilities could impact the timing of our major events in comparison to prior or future periods."
