[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common stock. These risk factors are intended to highlight certain factors that may affect our financial condition and results of operations and are not meant to be an exhaustive discussion of risks that we may face. Our operations could also be affected by factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. Due to risk and uncertainties, both known and unknown, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted. In addition, the price of our securities is subject to volatility and could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, causing investors to lose all or part of their investment.. Our operating results can fluctuate dramatically.  Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary in the future.  Past financial results may not be a reliable indicator of future performance. Fluctuations in operating results can result from a wide variety of factors, including:. • global economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets;. 7. Table of Contents. • the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry;. • changes in the demand for and mix of products sold and in the markets we and our customers serve;. • the availability of industry-wide wafer processing capacity;. • the availability of industry-wide and package specific assembly subcontract capacity and related raw materials;. • competitive pricing pressures;. • the success and timing of new product and process technology announcements and introductions from us or our competitors;. • potential loss of market share among a concentrated group of customers;. • difficulty in attracting and retaining key personnel;. • difficulty in predicting customer product requirements;. • production difficulties and interruptions caused by our complex manufacturing and logistics operations;. • limited control over our manufacturing and product delivery as a result of our reliance on subcontractors, foundry and other manufacturing services;. • unrealized potential of acquired businesses and resulting assets impairment;. • availability and costs of raw materials from a limited number of suppliers;. • political, economic and health conditions in various geographic areas;. • trade-relations disputes and/or tariffs imposed by various countries;. • imposition and/or enforcement of U.S. export control restrictions or similar regulatory trade limitations;. • timing and execution of plans and programs subject to foreign labor law requirements, including consultation with work councils;. • reduced customer demand as a result of the impact from natural and/or man-made disasters which may adversely impact our customer's manufacturing capability or reduce our customer's ability to acquire critical materials or components to manufacture their end products;. • costs associated with other events, such as intellectual property disputes or other litigation; and. • legislative, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes or changes in their interpretation.. Global economic and geo-political conditions may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We have and/or rely on facilities and operations in many countries throughout the world and some of our operations are concentrated in one or more geographic regions. A significant portion of our revenue comes from shipments to locations outside the United States. As a result of the breadth of our international operations, we are subject to the potential for substantial volatility in global capital markets and the global demand for semiconductor product. Our financial results and operations, including our ability to manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop and sell products, may be adversely affected by various global economic and geo-political conditions which can include:. • slow, uneven economic growth throughout the world;. • uncertainty regarding macroeconomic conditions and/or an institutional or economic collapse in a geographic region;. • geo-political events and security breaches throughout the world, such as armed conflict, civil or military unrest, political instability, terrorist activity, cyber attacks and data fraud or theft;. • natural disasters and public health issues including pandemics and outbreaks of infectious diseases;. • large scale disruptions in transportation, communications and information technology networks;. • disruption from trade-relations disputes and/or tariffs imposed by various countries; and. • imposition and/or enforcement of U.S. export control restrictions or similar regulatory trade limitations.. The cyclicality of the semiconductor industry exacerbates the volatility of our operating results.. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with product cycles of both semiconductor companies and their customers, but also related to declines in general economic conditions.  These downturns have been characterized by volatile customer demand, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices.  Any future economic downturns could materially and adversely affect our business from one period to the next relative to demand and product pricing.  In addition, the semiconductor industry may experience periods of increased demand, during which we may experience internal and external manufacturing constraints. We may also experience substantial changes in future operating results due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry.. Our acquisitions and the integration of businesses, operations and employees with our own will involve risks and the failure to integrate successfully in the expected time frame may adversely affect our future results.. Any failure to successfully integrate the business, operations and employees of acquired companies could harm our results of operations. Our ability to realize these benefits will depend, in part, on the timely integration and consolidation of organizations, operations, facilities, procedures, policies and technologies, and the harmonization of differences in the business cultures between the companies and their personnel. Implementation and integration of acquired businesses will be complex and time-consuming,. 8. Table of Contents. will involve additional expense and could disrupt our business and divert management's attention from ongoing business concerns. The challenges involved in integrating acquired businesses will include:. • preserving customer, supplier and other important relationships of the acquired companies and the Company;. • coordinating and integrating operations;. • integrating financial forecasting and controls, procedures and reporting cycles;. • combining and integrating information technology systems; and. • integrating employees and related human resources systems and benefits, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees.. The benefits we expect to realize from acquisitions are, necessarily, based on projections and assumptions about the combined businesses of the Company and the acquired businesses and assume, among other things, the successful integration of the acquired companies into our business and operations. We may not successfully integrate such acquired businesses and our operations in a timely manner, or at all. If we do not realize the anticipated benefits of such transaction, our growth strategy and future profitability could be affected. In addition, an acquisition could significantly increase the amount of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which could adversely affect our future results of operations.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from implementing our strategy or fulfilling our contractual obligations.. On April 4, 2017, we borrowed $200 million in a term loan facility (Initial Term B Loan) with an original maturity date of April 4, 2024. In November 2015, we issued $373.8 million of 0.875% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022 (Convertible Notes). Our substantial indebtedness may:. • limit our ability to use our cash flow or borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes;. • make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and. • increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions.. Our Credit Agreement related to the Initial Term B Loan contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict our and our subsidiaries' ability to, among other things, incur indebtedness, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of assets, make investments, make acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, pay dividends or make distributions and repurchase stock. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our business and our ability to service or repay our indebtedness would increase.. The exercise of warrants issued to JPMorgan Chase Bank concurrently with our Convertible Notes would, and the conversion of our Conversion Notes could, dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders.. If the market price per share of our common stock, as measured under the terms of the warrant transactions, exceeds the strike price of the warrants during the measurement period at the maturity of the warrants, we will owe JPMorgan Chase Bank a number of shares of our common stock in an amount based on the excess of such market price per share of our common stock over the strike price of the warrants. Any issuance by us of additional shares to JPMorgan Chase Bank upon exercise of the warrants will dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. In addition, the conversion of our Convertible Notes will dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders and could have a dilutive effect on our net income per share to the extent that the price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price of the Convertible Notes. Any sales in the public market by JPMorgan Chase Bank of our common stock upon exercise of the warrants or sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions and divestitures which could divert management's attention, cause ownership dilution to our stockholders, be difficult to integrate, and/or adversely affect our financial results.. Acquisitions and divestitures are commonplace in the semiconductor industry and we have acquired and divested, and may continue to acquire or divest, businesses and technologies. Mergers, acquisitions and divestitures include a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges. Acquisitions or divestitures could divert our management's attention and other resources from other business concerns. Integrating newly acquired businesses or technologies, or in the case of a divestiture, separating businesses or technologies, could put a strain on our resources, could be costly and time consuming, and might not be successful. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations or might incur increased expenses, including but not limited to legal, administrative and compensation expenses, related to newly hired or terminated employees.  Acquisitions and divestitures could also result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company or technology, dilutive or potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the assumption or incurrence of contingent liabilities, or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our business. Consequently, we might not be successful in acquiring or integrating any new businesses, products, or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated. 9. Table of Contents. revenues and cost benefits. In addition, we might be unsuccessful in finding or completing acquisition or divestiture opportunities on acceptable terms in a timely manner. For all these reasons, our pursuit of an acquisition, investment, divestiture, merger or joint venture could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated.. Demand for our products depends primarily on demand in the communications, enterprise computing, consumer, automotive and industrial markets which can be significantly affected by concerns over macroeconomic issues.. Our product portfolio consists predominantly of semiconductor solutions for the communications, computing, consumer, automotive and industrial markets. Our strategy and resources are directed at the development, production and marketing of products for these markets. The markets for our products will depend on continued and growing demand for communications equipment, servers, consumer electronics, and automotive and industrial solutions. These end-user markets may experience changes in demand that could adversely affect our business and could be greater in periods of economic uncertainty and contraction. To the extent demand or markets for our products do not grow, our business could be adversely affected.. We rely upon subcontractors and third-party foundries.. We are dependent on third-party subcontractors for all of our assembly operations. We are also dependent on third-party outside foundries for the manufacture of our silicon wafers. Our reliance on subcontractors and third-party foundries for our current products presents certain risks because we will have less control over manufacturing quality and delivery schedules, maintenance of sufficient capacity to meet our orders and maintaining in place the manufacturing processes we require. Due to production lead times and potential capacity constraints, any failure on our part to adequately forecast the mix of product demand and resulting foundry and subcontractor requirements could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we cannot be certain that these foundries and subcontractors will continue to manufacture, assemble, package and test products for us on acceptable economic and quality terms, or at all, and it may be difficult for us to find alternatives in a timely and cost-effective manner if they do not do so.. We build most of our products based on estimated demand forecasts.. Demand for our products can change rapidly and without advance notice. Demand can be affected by changes in our customers' levels of inventory and differences in the timing and pattern of orders from their end customers. Also, product recalls or delays and/or discontinuance of product development activities of our customers can impact the demand for our products. A large percentage of our revenue in the APAC region is recognized upon shipment to our distributors. Consequently, we have less visibility over both inventory levels at our distributors and end customer demand for our products. Further, the distributors have assumed more risk associated with changes in end demand for our products. Accordingly, significant changes in end demand in the semiconductor business in general, or for our products in particular, may be difficult for us to detect or otherwise measure, which could cause us to incorrectly forecast end-market demand for our products. If we are not able to accurately forecast end demand for our products, we may be left with large amounts of unsold products, may not be able to fill all actual orders, and may not be able to efficiently utilize our existing manufacturing capacity or make optimal investment and other business decisions. As a result, we may end up with excess and obsolete inventory or we may be unable to meet customer short-term demands, either of which could have an adverse impact on our operating results.. If we are unable to execute our business strategy successfully, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected.. Our future financial performance and success are largely dependent on our ability to execute our business strategy successfully. Our present business strategy to be a leading provider of essential mixed signal semiconductor solutions will be affected, without limitation, by: (1) our ability to continue to aggressively manage, maintain and refine our product portfolio including focus on the development and growth of new applications; (2) our ability to continue to maintain existing customers, aggressively pursue and win new customers; (3) our ability to successfully develop, manufacture and market new products in a timely manner; (4) our ability to develop new products in a more efficient manner; (5) our ability to sufficiently differentiate and enhance our products; (6) our ability to successfully deploy research and development (R&D) investment in the areas of displays, silicon timing, power management, signal integrity and radio frequency; and (7) our ability to improve our results of operations.. Our business strategy is based on our assumptions about the future demand for our current products and the new products and applications that we are developing and on our ability to produce our products profitably. We may not be successful in carrying out our business strategy. Further, some or all of our assumptions may be incorrect and our business strategy may not sustain or improve our results of operations. In particular, we may not be able to build our position in markets with high growth potential, increase our volume or revenue, rationalize our manufacturing operations or reduce our costs and expenses.. In addition, circumstances beyond our control and changes in our business or industry may require us to change our business strategy at any given time.. 10. Table of Contents. We face significant competition.. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid market developments and changes in industry standards, trends and desirable technology. If we do not anticipate and respond to these developments, our competitive position may weaken and our products and/or technologies may become undesirable or obsolete. Further, the price and product development pressures that result from competition may lead to reduced profit margins and lost business opportunities in the event that we are unable to match the price decline or cost efficiencies or advancements of our competitors.. Our results are dependent on the success of new products.. The markets we serve are characterized by competition, rapid technological change, evolving standards, short product life cycles and continuous erosion of average selling prices.  Consequently, our future success will be highly dependent upon our ability to continually develop new products using the latest and most cost-effective technologies, introduce our products in commercial quantities to the marketplace ahead of the competition and have our products selected for inclusion in leading system manufacturers' products. In addition, the development of new products will continue to require significant R&D expenditures. If we are unable to successfully develop, produce and market new products in a timely manner, have our products available in commercial quantities ahead of competitive products or have our products selected for inclusion in products of systems manufacturers and sell them at gross margins comparable to or better than our current products, our future results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, our future revenue growth is also partially dependent on our ability to penetrate new markets in which we have limited experience and where competitors are already entrenched. Future success for certain new products will also depend on the development of product solutions for new emerging markets and new applications for existing markets. The success of such products is dependent on the ability of our customers and their customers to successfully develop new markets and gain market acceptance for new product solutions in those markets. Even if we are able to develop, produce and successfully market new products in a timely manner, such new products may not achieve market acceptance. The above described events could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our gross margin percentage, and ultimately leading to impairment of assets.. The loss of the services of any key personnel may adversely affect our business and growth prospects.. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers, technical personnel or other key employees could adversely affect our business. In addition, our future success depends on our ability to successfully compete with other technology firms in attracting and retaining specialized technical and management personnel. If we are unable to identify, hire, and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel, our business and growth prospects could be adversely affected.. We are dependent on a concentrated group of customers for a significant part of our revenues.. A large portion of our revenues depends on sales to a limited number of customers.  If these relationships were to diminish, or if these customers were to develop their own solutions or adopt a competitor's solution instead of buying our products, our results could be adversely affected.. Many of our end-customer OEMs have outsourced their manufacturing to a concentrated group of global EMSs and original design manufacturers (ODMs) who then buy products directly from us or from our distributors on behalf of the OEM. These EMSs and ODMs have achieved greater autonomy in the design win, product qualification and product purchasing decisions, especially for commodity products. Competition for the business from EMSs and ODMs is intense and there is no assurance we can remain competitive and retain our existing market share with these customers. If these companies were to allocate a higher share of commodity or second-source business to our competitors instead of buying our products, our results would be adversely affected. Furthermore, as EMSs and ODMs have represented a growing percentage of our overall business, our concentration of credit and other business risks with these customers has increased. Competition among global EMSs and ODMs is intense as they operate on very low margins.  If any one or more of our global EMSs or ODMs customers were to file for bankruptcy or otherwise experience significantly adverse financial conditions, our business would be adversely affected as well.. In addition, we utilize a relatively small number of global and regional distributors around the world, who buy product directly from us on behalf of their customers. If our business relationships with any of these distributors were to diminish or any of these distributors were to file for bankruptcy or otherwise experience significantly adverse financial conditions, our business could be adversely affected. Because we continue to be dependent on product demand from a small group of OEM end customers and global and regional distributors, any material delay, cancellation or reduction of orders from or loss of these or other major customers could cause our revenue to decline significantly.. 11. Table of Contents. We face competitive pressures and unique requirements from our automotive business customers.. Our automotive business is highly competitive and we may face significant pricing and price reduction pressures from our automotive business customers. Our automotive business results could be adversely impacted if we are unable to offset pricing reduction pressures by improving operating efficiencies and reducing expenditures. In addition to aggressive pricing and ongoing price reductions, our automotive business customers may require longer term product supply commitments and greater contractual penalties and/or liability terms than those or our non-automotive business customers.  Our automotive business customers' products may also carry a risk of personal injury or property damage to end users in the event of a component failure and our participation in such business segment carries an increased risk that we will be required to respond to product liability and other similar types of claims.. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers.. Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate raw materials on a timely basis. The number of suppliers of certain raw materials, such as silicon wafers, ultra-pure metals and certain chemicals and gases needed for our products, is very limited. In addition, certain packages for our products require long lead times and are available from only a few suppliers. From time to time, suppliers have extended lead times or limited supply to us due to capacity constraints. Our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected if we were unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner or if there were significant increases in the costs of raw materials, or if foundry or assembly subcontractor capacity were not available, or if capacity were only available at unfavorable prices.. Our operations and business could be significantly harmed by natural disasters or acts of terrorism.. A majority of the third-party foundries and subcontractors we currently use are located in Malaysia, South Korea, the Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand, China, and Germany.  In addition, we own test facilities in Malaysia and Germany. The risk of an earthquake or tsunami in these Pacific Rim locations is significant. The occurrence of an earthquake, drought, flood, fire, or other natural disaster near any of these locations could cause a significant reduction of end-customer demand and/or availability of materials, a disruption of the global supply chain, an increase in the cost of products that we purchase, and otherwise interfere with our ability to conduct business. In addition, public health issues, acts of terrorism, armed conflicts or other catastrophic events could significantly delay the production or shipment of our products.  Although we maintain insurance for some of the damage that may be caused by natural disasters, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and would not cover us for lost business. As a result, a natural disaster in one or more of these regions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are exposed to risks related to cybersecurity threats and incidents.. In the conduct of our business, we collect, use, transmit and store data on information technology systems. These data include confidential information belonging to us or our customers or other business partners, as well as personally-identifiable information of individuals. Unauthorized persons or employees may gain access to our facilities or information technology systems to steal trade secrets or other proprietary information, compromise confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. These parties may also be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that disrupt our operations and create security vulnerabilities. We devote significant resources to network security, data encryption and other measures to protect our systems and data from unauthorized access or misuse. However, depending on their nature and scope, cybersecurity incidents could result in: business disruption; the misappropriation, corruption or loss of confidential information; reputational damage; litigation with third parties; data privacy issues; and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs. Attempted or successful attacks against our products and services could damage our reputation with customers or users and reduce demand for our products and services; which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. Costs related to product defects and errata may harm our results of operations and business.. Costs associated with unexpected product defects and errata, or deviations from published specifications, due to, for example, unanticipated problems in our design and manufacturing processes, could include:. • writing off the value of inventory of such products;. • disposing of products that cannot be fixed;. • recalling such products that have been shipped to customers;. • providing product replacements for, or modifications to, such products;. • defending against litigation related to such products; and. • paying penalties or damages attributable to the defect.. 12. Table of Contents. These costs could be substantial and may therefore increase our expenses and lower our gross margin. In addition, our reputation with our customers or users of our products could be damaged as a result of such product defects and errata, and the demand for our products could be reduced. The announcement of product defects and/or errata could cause customers to purchase products from our competitors as a result of anticipated shortages of our components or for other reasons. These factors could harm our financial results and the prospects for our business.. Intellectual property claims against and/or on behalf of us could adversely affect our business and operations.. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. We have been involved with patent litigation and asserted intellectual property claims in the past, both as a plaintiff and a defendant, some of which have adversely affected our operating results.  Although we have obtained patent licenses from certain semiconductor manufacturers, we do not have licenses from a number of semiconductor manufacturers that have broad patent portfolios. Claims alleging infringement of intellectual property rights have been asserted against us in the past and could be asserted against us in the future.. As a result of these claims, we may have to discontinue the use of certain processes, license certain technologies, cease the manufacture, use, and sale of infringing products, incur significant litigation costs and damages, indemnify customers against certain claims made against them, and develop non-infringing technology. We might not be able to obtain such licenses on acceptable terms or develop non-infringing technology. Further, the failure to renew or renegotiate existing licenses on favorable terms, or the inability to obtain a key license, could materially and adversely affect our business. Future litigation, either as a plaintiff or a defendant, could adversely affect our operating results, as a result of increased expenses, the cost of settled claims, and/or payment of damages.. We may be unable to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights.. We rely on patents, copyrights, trade secrets, mask rights, and other intellectual property rights as well as confidentiality and licensing agreements to protect our intellectual property interests. Our ability to enforce these rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of these rights in various countries.  Should we seek to enforce our intellectual property rights, we could be subject to claims that our intellectual property rights are invalid or otherwise not enforceable.  Our assertion of our intellectual property rights may result in the other party seeking to assert claims against us, which could be disruptive to and/or harm our business.  Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights under any of these circumstances may harm our competitive position and business.. We rely on access to third-party intellectual property, which may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all.. Some of our products include third-party intellectual property and/or implement industry standards, which may require licenses from third parties. Based on past experience and industry practice, we believe such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. However, there is no assurance that the necessary licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or at all. Failure to obtain the right to use third-party intellectual property, or to use such intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms, could preclude us from selling certain products or otherwise have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results.. Our product manufacturing operations are complex and subject to interruption.. From time to time, we have experienced production difficulties, including lower manufacturing yields or products that do not meet our or our customers' specifications, which has resulted in delivery delays, quality problems and lost revenue opportunities. While delivery delays have been infrequent and generally short in duration, we could experience manufacturing problems, capacity constraints and/or product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, the complexity of our manufacturing processes, changes to our process technologies (including transfers to other facilities and die size reduction efforts), and difficulties in ramping production.  In addition, any significant quality problems could damage our reputation with our customers and could take focus away from the development of new and enhanced products. These could have a significant negative impact on our financial results.. We are dependent upon electric power and water provided by public utilities where we operate our manufacturing facility. We maintain limited backup generating capability, but the amount of electric power that we can generate on our own is insufficient to fully operate this facility, and prolonged power interruptions and restrictions on our access to water could have a significant adverse impact on our business.. Tax benefits we receive may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our costs.. As a result of our international manufacturing operations, a significant portion of our worldwide profits are in jurisdictions outside the United States, primarily Malaysia, which has granted the Company significant reductions in tax rates. These lower tax rates allow us to record a relatively low tax expense on a worldwide basis.. 13. Table of Contents. We were granted a tax incentive in Malaysia during fiscal 2009. The tax incentive was contingent upon us continuing to meet specified investment criteria in fixed assets, and to operate as an APAC regional headquarters center. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company agreed with the Malaysian Industrial Development Authority (MIDA) to cancel the previously granted tax incentive and enter into a new tax incentive agreement which provides a full tax exemption on statutory income for a period of 10 years commencing April 4, 2011. We are required to meet several conditions as to financial targets, investment, headcount and activities in Malaysia to retain this status. Our inability to renew this tax incentive or other exemptions, when they expire, or to meet certain conditions of the agreement with MIDA may adversely impact our effective tax rate.. Our financial results may be adversely affected by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities.  Tax audits may have a material adverse effect on our profitability.. As a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region in which we operate. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\"). The changes included in the TCJA are broad and complex. The final transition impacts of the TCJA may differ from the estimates provided elsewhere in our financial results, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the TCJA, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the TCJA, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the TCJA, or any updates or changes to estimates we have utilized to calculate the transition impacts, including impacts from changes to post-1986 earnings and profits for our foreign entities and current year earnings estimates. Additionally, other countries where we do business have been considering changes in relevant tax laws applicable to multinational corporations such as ours. These potential changes could adversely affect our effective tax rate or result in higher cash tax liabilities.. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets, or by material audit assessments, which could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the United States, is dependent upon our ability to generate future taxable income in the United States. Further, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority such as the Internal Revenue Service in the United States could have a material effect on our profitability.. The costs associated with legal proceedings can be substantial, specific costs are unpredictable and not completely within our control, and unexpected increases in litigation costs could adversely affect our operating results.. We have been, and continue to be, involved in various legal proceedings from time to time, such as those described below in Part I, Item 3 \"Legal Proceedings.\"  We may face legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, competition and other issues on a global basis. The costs associated with legal proceedings are typically high, relatively unpredictable, and are not completely within our control.  The costs may be materially more than expected, which could adversely affect our operating results. Moreover, we may become involved in unexpected litigation with additional litigants at any time, which would increase our aggregate litigation costs, and could adversely affect our operating results. We are not able to predict the outcome of any legal action, and an adverse decision in any legal action could significantly harm our business and financial performance.. If the credit market conditions deteriorate, it could have a material adverse impact on our investment portfolio.. Although we manage our investment portfolio by purchasing only highly-rated securities and diversifying our investments across various sectors, investment types, and underlying issuers, recent volatility in the short-term financial markets has been high.   We have no securities in asset-backed commercial paper and hold no auction rated or mortgage-backed securities.  However, it is uncertain as to the full extent of the current credit and liquidity crisis and with possible further deterioration, particularly within one or several of the large financial institutions, the value of our investments could be negatively impacted.. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies.. The methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations.  Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments.  Changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. In particular, the calculation of stock-based compensation expense under the authoritative guidance requires us to use valuation methodologies that were not developed for use in valuing employee stock options and make a number of assumptions, estimates, and conclusions regarding matters such as expected forfeitures, expected volatility of our share price and the exercise behavior of our employees. Changes in these variables could affect our stock-based compensation expense and have a significant and potentially adverse effect on our gross margins, research and development expense and selling, general and administrative expense. For more information, see \"Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates\" in Part II, Item 7 and \"Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies\" in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.. 14. Table of Contents. International operations add increased volatility to our operating results.. A substantial percentage of our total revenues are derived from international sales, based on the customers' shipment locations, as summarized below:. (percentage of total revenues) Fiscal 2018   Fiscal 2017   Fiscal 2016 Hong Kong 36 %   36 %   44 % Korea 10 %   11 %   11 % Rest of Asia Pacific 30 %   31 %   25 % Europe 14 %   12 %   9 % Americas 10 %   10 %   11 % Total 100 %   100 %   100 %. In addition, our test facilities in Malaysia and Germany, our design centers in Canada, China, and Germany, and our foreign sales offices incur payroll, facility, and other expenses in local currencies. Accordingly, movements in foreign currency exchange rates can impact our revenues and costs of goods sold, as well as both pricing and demand for our products.. Our non-U.S. offshore sites, manufacturing subcontractors and export sales are also subject to risks associated with foreign operations, including:. • political instability and acts of war or terrorism, which could disrupt our manufacturing and logistical activities;. • regulations regarding use of local employees and suppliers;. • exposure to foreign employment practices and labor laws;. • currency controls and fluctuations, devaluation of foreign currencies, hard currency shortages and exchange rate fluctuations;. • changes in local economic conditions;. • governmental regulation of taxation of our earnings and those of our personnel; and. • changes in tax laws, import and export controls, tariffs and freight rates.. Our international locations are subject to local labor laws, which are often significantly different from U.S. labor laws and which may under certain conditions result in large separation costs upon termination.. Contract pricing for raw materials and equipment used in the fabrication and assembly processes, as well as for foundry and subcontract assembly services, may also be affected by currency controls, exchange rate fluctuations and currency devaluations.  We sometimes hedge currency risk for currencies that are highly liquid and freely quoted, but may not enter into hedge contracts for currencies with limited trading volume. In addition, as much of our revenues are generated outside the United States, a significant portion of our cash and investment portfolio accumulates in the foreign countries in which we operate. As of April 1, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and investments of approximately $201.8 million invested overseas in accounts belonging to our foreign subsidiaries. While these amounts are primarily invested in U.S. dollars, a portion is held in foreign currencies, and all offshore balances are exposed to local political, banking, currency control and other risks. In addition, these amounts may be subject to tax and other transfer restrictions.. We rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business.. We maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. These information systems include telecommunications, the Internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications, and e-mail. These information systems are subject to attacks, failures, and access denials from a number of potential sources including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, communication lines and networking equipment. To the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and emergency recovery processes, to address the outlined risks. While we believe that our information systems are appropriately controlled and that we have processes in place to adequately manage these risks, security procedures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business.. 15. Table of Contents. We are exposed to potential impairment charges on certain assets.. Over the past several years, we have made several acquisitions. As a result of these acquisitions, we had $420.1 million of goodwill and $180.8 million of intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet as of April 1, 2018. In determining fair value, we consider various factors, including our market capitalization, forecasted revenue and costs, risk-adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions, determination of appropriate market comparables and expected periods over which our assets will be utilized and other variables. If our assumptions regarding forecasted cash flow, revenue and margin growth rates of certain long-lived asset groups and reporting units are not achieved, an impairment review may be triggered for the remaining balance of goodwill and long-lived assets prior to the next annual review in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, which could result in material charges that could impact our operating results and financial position.. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices.. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), SEC and various organizations formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting standards and practices. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred and may occur in the future. New accounting pronouncements or a change in the interpretation of existing accounting standards or practices may have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is announced or effective.. Our common stock may experience substantial price volatility.. Our stock price has experienced volatility in the past, and volatility in the price of our common stock may occur in the future, particularly as a result of fluctuations in global economic conditions and quarter-to-quarter variations in our actual or anticipated financial results, or the financial results of other semiconductor companies or our customers. Stock price volatility may also result from product announcements by us or our competitors, or from changes in perceptions about the various types of products we manufacture and sell.  In addition, our stock price may fluctuate due to price and volume fluctuations in the stock market, especially in the technology sector, and as a result of other considerations or events described in this section.. We depend on the ability of our personnel, raw materials, equipment and products to move reasonably unimpeded around the world.. Any political, military, world health or other issue which hinders the worldwide movement of our personnel, raw materials, equipment or products or restricts the import or export of materials could lead to significant business disruptions. Furthermore, any strike, economic failure, or other material disruption on the part of major airlines or other transportation companies could also adversely affect our ability to conduct business. If such disruptions result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or corporate spending on information technology, or directly affect our marketing, manufacturing, financial and logistics functions, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. We invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments.. We make investments in companies around the world to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. Such investments include equity instruments of private companies, and many of these instruments are non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. These companies range from early-stage companies that are often still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. The success of these companies is dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and other key business factors as well as their ability to secure additional funding, obtain favorable investment terms for future financings, or participate in liquidity events such as public offerings, mergers, and private sales. If any of these private companies fail, we could lose all or part of our investment in that company. If we determine that other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for an equity investment in a private company in which we have invested, we write down the investment to its fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss.. When the strategic objectives of an investment have been achieved, or if the investment or business diverges from our strategic objectives, we may decide to dispose of the investment. We may incur losses on the disposal of our non-marketable investments.. We are subject to a variety of environmental and other regulations related to hazardous materials used in our manufacturing processes.. The manufacturing and testing of our products require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Any failure by us to adequately control the use or discharge of hazardous materials under present or future regulations could subject us to substantial costs or liabilities or cause our manufacturing operations to be suspended.. 16. Table of Contents. Existing and future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify our product designs, or incur other expenses associated with such laws and regulations. Many new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under existing or future environmental laws and regulations that may restrict our use of one or more of such materials in our manufacturing, and test processes, or products. Any of these restrictions could harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter our manufacturing and test processes.. Our operations could be affected by the complex laws, rules and regulations to which our business is subject.. We are subject to complex laws, rules and regulations affecting our domestic and international operations relating to, for example, environmental, safety and health; exports and imports; International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), bribery and corruption; tax; data privacy; labor and employment; competition; and intellectual property ownership and infringement. Compliance with these laws, rules and regulations may be onerous and expensive, and if we fail to comply or if we become subject to enforcement activity, our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business could be restricted and we could be subject to fines, penalties or other legal liability. Furthermore, should these laws, rules and regulations be amended or expanded, or new ones enacted, we could incur materially greater compliance costs or restrictions on our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business.. In October 2015, the European Court of Justice invalidated the year 2000 \"Safe Harbor\" agreement between the European Union and the United States. Before this ruling, companies that complied with the Safe Harbor agreement were deemed to provide an adequate level of protection for European Union citizens' personally identifiable information that was transferred to, and used in, the United States in the ordinary course of business. Since 2000, we have relied on the Safe Harbor agreement to ensure compliance with data privacy laws in Europe. In light of the October 2015 ruling invalidating the Safe Harbor agreement, we may incur fines, penalties, legal liability and/or additional material costs as we move forward to put in place policies, procedures and practices that ensure compliance with existing and evolving data privacy laws and requirements of the European Union and its member states."
