[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS. IF OUR PRODUCTS DO NOT ACHIEVE MARKET ACCEPTANCE, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO GENERATE THE REVENUE NECESSARY TO SUPPORT OUR BUSINESS.. The da Vinci Surgical System and our other products represent a fundamentally new way of performing surgery. Achieving physician, patient, and third-party payor acceptance of da Vinci Surgery as a preferred method of performing surgery is crucial to our success. If our products fail to achieve market acceptance, customers will not purchase our products and we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. We believe that physicians' and third-party payors' acceptance of the benefits of procedures performed using our products will be essential for acceptance of our products by patients. Physicians will. 16. Table of Contents. not recommend the use of our products unless we can demonstrate that they produce results comparable or superior to existing surgical techniques. Even if we can prove the effectiveness of our products through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons. For example, cardiologists may continue to recommend conventional heart surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted. In addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third-party payors, particularly in light of ongoing health care reform initiatives and the evolving U.S. health care environment following the 2016 U.S. elections.. We expect that there will be a learning process involved for surgical teams to become proficient in the use of our products.  Broad use of our products will require training of surgical teams. Market acceptance could be delayed by the time required to complete this training. We may not be able to rapidly train surgical teams in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our products.. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR COMPANY.. Uncertainty about global economic conditions, including credit and sovereign debt concerns in certain European countries and concerns about slowed economic growth in China and other OUS markets, have caused and may continue to cause disruptions in the financial credit markets, volatile currency exchange rates and energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions, and liquidity concerns. Customers and distributors may choose to postpone or reduce spending due to financial difficulties or may be unable to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products due to restraints on credit. There could be additional effects from adverse conditions in the credit markets on our business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance the development and/or manufacture of our products resulting in product delays.. In addition, our business is closely tied to the overall U.S. healthcare system, relating to which there are concerns and uncertainties as a result of efforts made by the U.S. federal government to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the PPACA. In addition, the U.S. federal government has called for, or enacted, substantial changes to trade, fiscal, and tax policies, which may include changes to existing trade agreements, including, but not limited to, the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\"), and may have a significant impact on our operations. We cannot predict the impact, if any, that these changes could have on our business.. If economic conditions worsen or new legislation is passed related to the healthcare system, trade, fiscal or tax policies, customer demand may not materialize to the levels we require to achieve our anticipated financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. BECAUSE OUR MARKETS ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, CUSTOMERS MAY CHOOSE TO PURCHASE OUR COMPETITORS' PRODUCTS OR SERVICES OR MAY NOT ACCEPT DA VINCI SURGERY, WHICH WOULD RESULT IN REDUCED REVENUE AND LOSS OF MARKET SHARE.. da Vinci Surgery is a technology that competes with established and emerging treatment options in both disease management and reconstructive medical procedures. These competitive treatment options include conventional MIS, open surgery, interventional approaches, and pharmacological regimens. Some of these procedures are widely accepted in the medical community and in many cases have a long history of use. Technological advances could make such treatments more effective or less expensive than using our products, which could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. Studies could be published that show that other treatment options are more beneficial and/or cost-effective than da Vinci Surgery. We cannot be certain that physicians will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will continue to be competitive with current or future technologies.. Additionally, we face or expect to face competition from companies that develop or have developed wristed, robotic, or computer-assisted surgical systems and products. The following companies have introduced products in the field of robotic surgery or have made explicit statements about their efforts to enter the field: Auris Surgical Robotics Inc.; Avatera Medical GmbH; Cambridge Medical Robotics Ltd; Johnson & Johnson and Google Inc. and their joint venture, Verb Surgical Inc.; Medicaroid Inc.; MedRobotics Corp.; meerecompany Inc.; Medtronic PLC; Olympus Corp.; Samsung Corporation; Smart Robot Technology Group Co. Ltd.; TransEnterix Inc.; and Titan Medical Inc. Other companies with substantial experience in industrial robotics could potentially expand into the field of surgical robotics and become competitors. Our revenues may be reduced due to pricing pressure or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. If we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues will suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, result of operations, or cash flows. We may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources.. In addition, third-party service providers that provide services to da Vinci Surgical System operators may emerge and compete with us on price or offerings. To date, substantially all of our customers have sourced services on their da Vinci Surgical Systems from us through service contract commitments or time and materials contracts. Furthermore, there are third-party service providers. 17. Table of Contents. offering consulting services targeted at analyzing the cost-effectiveness of hospitals' robotic surgery programs, including procedures performed, placement of systems, and consumption of instruments and accessories. We currently provide similar services and analysis to our customers, but it is difficult to assess the impact that this may have on our business. If we are unable to compete successfully with any third-party service providers, our revenues may suffer.. OUR CUSTOMERS MAY USE UNAUTHORIZED OR UNAPPROVED INSTRUMENTS AND ACCESSORIES, WHICH WOULD RESULT IN REDUCED REVENUE AND LOSS OF MARKET SHARE.. A large portion of our revenue is generated through our sales of instruments and accessories. Third parties have attempted to and may discover ways to manufacture and sell counterfeit reprocessed instruments and/or alter instruments that are compatible and function with the da Vinci Surgical System, and such activities may reduce our market share. While our sales arrangements with customers generally prohibit the use of unauthorized or unapproved instruments and accessories with da Vinci Surgical Systems, warranties will be void if such instruments and accessories are used, and a programmed memory chip inside each instrument is designed to prevent the instrument from being used for more than the prescribed number of procedures to help ensure that its performance meets specifications during each procedure, these measures may not prevent the use of unauthorized or unapproved instruments and accessories by our customers. In addition to potential reductions to our revenues and market share, sales of unauthorized instruments and accessories by third parties may create safety and health risks to da Vinci patients and could cause negative publicity for us if these products cause injuries and/or do not function as intended when used with the da Vinci Surgical Systems, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENTS AND INTRODUCTIONS MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS.. We develop and introduce new products with enhanced features and extended capabilities from time to time. We may introduce new products that target different markets than what our existing products target. The success of new product introductions depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to, timely and successful research and development, regulatory clearances or approvals, pricing, competition, market and consumer acceptance, the effective forecasting and management of product demand, inventory levels, the management of manufacturing and supply costs, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction.. We invest substantially in various research and development projects to expand our product offerings. Our research and development efforts are critical to our success, and our research and development projects may not be successful. We may be unable to develop and market new products successfully, and the products we invest in and develop may not be well-received by customers or meet our expectations. Our research and development investments may not generate significant operating income or contribute to our future operating results for several years, and such contributions may not meet our expectations or even cover the costs of such investments. In addition, the introduction or announcement of new products or product enhancements may shorten the life cycle of our existing products or reduce demand for our current products, thereby offsetting any benefits of successful product introductions and potentially leading to challenges in managing inventory of existing products.. Our products are subject to various regulatory processes, and we must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in order to sell our new products.  If a potential purchaser believes that we plan to introduce a new product in the near future or if a potential purchaser is located in a country where a new product that we have introduced has not yet received regulatory clearance, planned purchases may be deferred or delayed. We have in the past experienced a slowdown in demand for existing products in advance of new product introductions and may experience a slowdown in demand in the future as well. It is also possible that a new product introduction could cause downward pressure on the prices of our existing products or require us to change how we sell our products, either of which could have material adverse effect on our revenues.. If we fail to effectively develop new products and manage new product introductions in the future, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially adversely impacted.. WE EXPECT GROSS PROFIT MARGINS TO VARY OVER TIME, AND CHANGES IN OUR GROSS PROFIT MARGINS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION OR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.. Our gross profit margins have fluctuated from period to period, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future.  Our gross profit margins may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including:. • changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of da Vinci Surgical System models sold;. • changes in the portion of sales involving a trade-in of another system and the amount of trade-in credits given;. • introduction of new products, which may have lower margins than our existing products;. • our ability to maintain or reduce production costs;. • changes to our pricing strategy;. 18. Table of Contents. • changes in competition;. • changes in production volume driven by demand for our products;. • changes in material, labor, or other manufacturing-related costs, including the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations for foreign-currency denominated costs;. • changes to U.S. and foreign trade policies, including the enactment of tariffs on goods imported into the U.S., including but not limited to, goods imported from Mexico where we manufacture a majority of our instruments that we sell;. • inventory obsolescence and product recall charges; and. • market conditions.. If we are unable to offset the unfavorable impact of the factors noted above by increasing the volume of products shipped, reducing product manufacturing costs, or otherwise, our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows may be materially adversely affected.. WE EXPERIENCE LONG AND VARIABLE CAPITAL SALES CYCLES AND SEASONALITY IN OUR BUSINESS, WHICH MAY CAUSE FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS.. The sales and purchase order cycle of our da Vinci Surgical System is lengthy because it is a major capital item and its purchase generally requires the approval of senior management of hospitals, their parent organizations, purchasing groups, and government bodies, as applicable. In addition, sales to some of our customers are subject to competitive bidding or public tender processes. These approval and bidding processes can be lengthy. As a result, hospitals may delay or accelerate system purchases in conjunction with timing of their capital budget timelines. Further, IDN groups are creating larger networks of da Vinci system operators with increasing purchasing power and are increasingly evaluating their da Vinci Surgery programs to optimize the efficiency of the da Vinci system operations. Further, the introduction of new products could adversely impact our sales cycle as customers take additional time to assess the benefits and costs of such products. As a result, it is difficult for us to predict the length of capital sales cycles and, therefore, the exact timing of capital sales. Historically, our sales of da Vinci Surgical Systems have tended to be heaviest during the third month of each fiscal quarter, lighter in the first fiscal quarter and heavier in the fourth fiscal quarter.. We have experienced procedure growth for a number of benign conditions, including hysterectomies for benign conditions, sacrocolpopexies, hernia repairs, cholecystectomies, and certain other surgeries. Many of these types of surgeries may be postponed in the short term by patients to avoid vacation periods and for other personal scheduling reasons. Patients may also accelerate procedures to take advantage of insurance funding cut-off dates. Historically, we have experienced lower procedure volume in the first and third fiscal quarters and higher procedure volume in the second and fourth fiscal quarters. Timing of procedures and changes in procedure growth directly affect the timing of instrument and accessory purchases and capital purchases by customers.. The above factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Because of these fluctuations, it is possible that in future periods our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors.  If that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. These fluctuations, among other factors, also mean that our operating results in any particular period may not be relied upon as an indication of future performance.. WE ARE SUBJECT TO A VARIETY OF RISKS DUE TO OUR OPERATIONS OUTSIDE OF THE U.S.. We manufacture, perform research and development activities, and distribute our products in OUS markets. Revenue from OUS markets accounted for approximately 27%, 28%, and 29% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. Our OUS operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks including:. • failure to obtain or maintain the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property rights as we have in the U.S.;. • multiple OUS regulatory requirements that are subject to change and that could impact our ability to manufacture and sell our products;. • changes in tariffs, trade barriers, and regulatory requirements;. • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in OUS markets;. • local or national regulations that make it difficult or impractical to market or use our products;. • U.S. relations with the governments of the foreign countries in which we operate;. • inability or regulatory limitations on our ability to move goods across borders;. • the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;. • difficulty in establishing, staffing, and managing OUS operations;. • the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets;. • building and maintaining an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations;. 19. Table of Contents. • anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials;. • economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; and. • business interruptions due to natural disasters, outbreak of disease, and other events beyond our control.. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (the \"UK\") held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union (the \"EU\"), commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" On March 29, 2017, the UK formally notified the EU of its intention to withdraw pursuant to Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty. The withdrawal of the UK from the EU will take effect either on the effective date of the withdrawal agreement or, in the absence of agreement, two years after the UK provided its notice of withdrawal. As a result of the referendum, the British government has begun negotiating the terms of the UK's future relationship with the EU, including the terms of trade between the UK and the EU. Although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the UK and EU countries, increased regulatory complexities, and economic and political uncertainty in the region.. In addition, the U.S. federal government has made recent proposals and explicit statements about its intention to make changes to U.S. trade policy, including signing an executive order to withdraw from the negotiating process of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, renegotiate the terms of NAFTA, and imposing border taxes on imports into the U.S. We manufacture a majority of the instruments we sell in Mexico and any legislation enacted that impacts the relationship between the U.S. and Mexico and/or the continuity of NAFTA could adversely affect our operations and financial results. If enacted, any legislation taken by the U.S. federal government that restricts trade, such as tariffs, trade barriers, and other protectionist or retaliatory measures taken by governments in Europe, Asia, and other countries, could adversely impact our ability to sell products and services in our OUS markets.. Furthermore, a large portion of our OUS sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive and/or less affordable in OUS markets.. If we are unable to meet and manage these risks, our OUS operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, result of operations, or cash flows.. WE UTILIZE DISTRIBUTORS FOR A PORTION OF OUR SALES, WHICH SUBJECTS US TO A NUMBER OF RISKS THAT COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS.. We have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products in certain foreign countries. If these strategic relationships are terminated and not replaced, our revenues and/or ability to sell or service our products in the markets serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. In addition, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits against our distributors related to sales or service of our products performed by them. Please see our risk factor below titled \"We Are Subject to Product Liability and Negligence Claims Relating to the Use of Our Products and Other Legal Proceedings That Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition, Divert Management's Attention, and Harm Our Business.\" The actions of our distributors may affect our ability to effectively market our products in certain foreign countries or regulatory jurisdictions if a distributor holds the regulatory authorization in such countries or within such regions and causes, by action or inaction, the suspension of such marketing authorization or sanctions for non-compliance. It may be difficult, expensive, and time consuming for us to re-establish market access or regulatory compliance in such case.. WE ARE EXPOSED TO THE CREDIT RISK OF SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN MATERIAL LOSSES.. We believe customer financing through leasing is an important consideration for some of our customers and have experienced an increase in demand for customer financing. We may experience loss from a customer's failure to make payments according to the contractual lease terms. Our exposure to the credit risks relating to our lease financing arrangements may increase if our customers are adversely affected by changes in healthcare laws, coverage and reimbursement, economic pressures or uncertainty, or other customer-specific factors.. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing credit risks relating to these lease financing arrangements. If the level of credit losses we experience in the future exceed our expectations, such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. WE MAY INCUR LOSSES ASSOCIATED WITH CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EFFECTIVELY HEDGE OUR EXPOSURE.. Our operating results are subject to volatility due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our primary exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relates to revenue and operating expenses denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar adversely affects our foreign currency-denominated revenue. Margins on OUS revenue could also be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as we may not be able to raise local prices to fully offset the strengthening of the U.S. dollar. Conversely, the strengthening of foreign. 20. Table of Contents. currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, while generally beneficial to our foreign currency-denominated revenue and earnings, may cause us to reduce pricing on our products in our OUS markets and may cause us to incur losses on our foreign currency hedging instruments, thereby limiting the benefit that strengthened foreign currencies could have on our results of operations.. We attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity, and expense. Although we have established a hedging program to partially hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, primarily related to transactions denominated in the Euro, Japanese Yen, Korean Won, British Pound, and the Swiss Franc, and we regularly review our hedging program and make adjustments as necessary, our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact caused by unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. See \"Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk\" for additional discussion on the impact of foreign exchange risk.. WE ARE EXPOSED TO CREDIT RISK AND FLUCTUATIONS IN THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR INVESTMENTS.. Our investment portfolio includes both domestic and international investments. The credit ratings and pricing of our investments can be negatively affected by liquidity concerns, credit deterioration, financial results, economic risk, political risk, or other factors. As a result, the value and liquidity of our cash equivalents and marketable securities could fluctuate substantially. Our other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of investments, impairment charges resulting from revaluations of debt and equity securities and other investments, changes in interest rates, increases or decreases in cash balances, volatility in foreign exchange rates, and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. Increased volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty could increase the risk that actual amounts realized on our investments may differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them.. While we have not realized any significant losses on our cash equivalents or marketable securities, future fluctuations in their value could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. IF DEFECTS ARE DISCOVERED IN OUR PRODUCTS, WE MAY INCUR ADDITIONAL UNFORESEEN COSTS, HOSPITALS MAY NOT PURCHASE OUR PRODUCTS, AND OUR REPUTATION MAY SUFFER.. Our success depends on the quality and reliability of our products. While we subject components sourced and products manufactured to stringent quality specifications and processes, our products incorporate mechanical parts, electrical components, optical components, and computer software, any of which may contain errors or exhibit failures, especially when products are first introduced.  In addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. Because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure, we and our customers have an increased sensitivity to such defects. In the past, we have voluntarily recalled certain products. Although our products are subject to stringent quality processes and controls, we cannot provide assurance that our products will not experience component aging, errors, or performance problems. If we experience product flaws or performance problems, any or all of the following could occur:. • delays in product shipments;. • loss of revenue;. • delay in market acceptance;. • diversion of our resources;. • damage to our reputation;. • product recalls;. • regulatory actions;. • increased service or warranty costs; or. • product liability claims.. Costs associated with product flaws or performance problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. WE ARE SUBJECT TO PRODUCT LIABILITY AND NEGLIGENCE CLAIMS RELATING TO THE USE OF OUR PRODUCTS AND OTHER LEGAL PROCEEDINGS THAT COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION, DIVERT MANAGEMENT'S ATTENTION, AND HARM OUR BUSINESS.. We are and may become subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. Certain current lawsuits and pending proceedings to which we are party, including purported class actions, derivative lawsuits, and product liability litigation, are described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8.. In particular, our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims, which are inherent to the medical device industry. Product liability claims have been brought against us by or on behalf of individuals alleging that they have sustained. 21. Table of Contents. personal injuries and/or death as a result of purported product defects, the alleged failure to warn, and/or the alleged inadequate training by us of physicians regarding the use of the da Vinci Surgical System.  The individuals who have brought the product liability claims seek recovery for their alleged personal injuries and in many cases, punitive damages.  Current product liability claims have resulted in negative publicity regarding our Company, and these and any other product liability or negligence claims or product recalls also could harm our reputation.  Please see our risk factor below titled \"Negative Publicity, Whether Accurate or Inaccurate, Concerning Our Products or Our Company Could Reduce Market Acceptance of Our Products and Could Result in Decreased Product Demand and a Decline in Revenues\" for additional risks related to the potential effects of negative publicity on our business.. The outcome of these product liability claims and other legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. We currently self-insure our product liability risk and maintain third-party insurance coverage for certain other liabilities. However, we cannot determine whether our insurance coverage from third-party carriers, or our self-insurance of product liability risk, would be sufficient to cover the costs or potential losses related to these lawsuits and proceedings or otherwise be excluded under the terms of any third-party policy. Regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant legal costs (including settlements, judgments, legal fees, and other related defense costs) and diversion of management attention. If we do not prevail in the purported class actions and derivative lawsuits, product liability litigation, or other legal proceedings, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. NEGATIVE PUBLICITY, WHETHER ACCURATE OR INACCURATE, CONCERNING OUR PRODUCTS OR OUR COMPANY COULD REDUCE MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR PRODUCTS AND COULD RESULT IN DECREASED PRODUCT DEMAND AND A DECLINE IN REVENUES.. There have been articles published and papers written questioning patient safety and efficacy associated with da Vinci Surgery, the cost of da Vinci Surgery relative to other disease management methods, and the adequacy of surgeon training. Negative publicity, including statements made by public officials, whether accurate or inaccurate, concerning our products or our Company could reduce market acceptance of our products and could result in decreased product demand and a decline in revenues. In addition, significant negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, regardless of whether these claims are meritorious. The number of claims could be further increased by plaintiffs' law firms that use a wide variety of media to advertise their services and solicit clients for product liability cases against us.. WE ARE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT, UNINSURED LIABILITIES.. For certain risks, we do not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. For example, we self-insure our product liability risks and we indemnify our directors and officers for third-party claims and do not carry insurance to cover that  indemnity or the related underlying losses. We also do not carry, among other types of coverage, earthquake, and cyber insurance. In addition, in the future, we may not continue to maintain certain existing insurance coverage or adequate levels of coverage. Premiums for many types of insurance have increased significantly in recent years, and depending on market conditions and our circumstances, in the future, certain types of insurance such as directors' and officers' insurance may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Because we retain some portion of our insurable risks, and in some cases we are self-insured completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insurance coverage could require us to pay substantial amounts, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. WE MAY ENCOUNTER MANUFACTURING PROBLEMS OR DELAYS THAT COULD RESULT IN LOST REVENUE.. Manufacturing our products is a complex process.  We (or our critical suppliers) may encounter difficulties in scaling up or maintaining production of our products, including:. • problems involving production yields;. • quality control and assurance;. • component supply shortages;. • import or export restrictions on components, materials or technology;. • shortages of qualified personnel; and. • compliance with state, federal, and foreign regulations.. If demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders.  If we are unable to maintain larger-scale manufacturing capabilities, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. 22. Table of Contents. OUR RELIANCE ON SOLE AND SINGLE SOURCE SUPPLIERS COULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO MEET DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS IN A TIMELY MANNER OR WITHIN BUDGET.. Some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers or single-sourced suppliers.  We generally purchase components through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory.  While alternative suppliers exist and could be identified for sole-sourced components, the disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our operating results. A disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. Furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. The delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. IF INSTITUTIONS OR SURGEONS ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN COVERAGE AND REIMBURSEMENT FROM THIRD-PARTY PAYORS FOR PROCEDURES USING OUR PRODUCTS, OR IF REIMBURSEMENT IS INSUFFICIENT TO COVER THE COSTS OF PURCHASING OUR PRODUCTS, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO GENERATE SUFFICIENT SALES TO SUPPORT OUR BUSINESS.. In the U.S., hospitals generally bill for the services performed with our products to various third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid, and other government programs and private insurance plans. If hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if government and private payors' policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. Our success in OUS markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for coverage and reimbursement through government-sponsored health care payment systems and third-party payors. Reimbursement practices vary significantly by country. Many OUS markets have government-managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. Other foreign markets have both private insurance systems and government-managed systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. Market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability and level of coverage and reimbursement in any country within a particular time. In addition, health care cost containment efforts similar to those in the U.S. are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we intend to sell our products and these efforts are expected to continue.  Please see our risk factor below titled \"Changes in Healthcare Legislation and Policy May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" for additional risks related to the ability of institutions or surgeons to obtain reimbursements.. IF WE LOSE OUR KEY PERSONNEL OR ARE UNABLE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL, OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE WILL BE HARMED.. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. For example, our product development plans depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain engineers with experience in mechanics, electronics, software and optics.  Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and competition for qualified personnel is intense. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among technology and healthcare companies and universities. The loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete.. NATURAL DISASTERS OR OTHER EVENTS BEYOND OUR CONTROL COULD DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULT IN LOSS OF REVENUE OR IN HIGHER EXPENSES.. Natural disasters, terrorist activities, and other business disruptions, including but not limited to internet security threats, could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. For example, the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan and their aftermath created economic uncertainty and disrupted economic activities in Japan, including a reduction in hospital spending. Furthermore, our corporate headquarters and many of our operations, including certain of our manufacturing facilities, are located in California, which in the past has experienced both severe earthquakes and other natural disasters. We do not have multiple-site capacity for all of our operations in the event of a business disruption. Furthermore, parties in our supply chain and our customers are similarly vulnerable to natural disasters or other sudden, unforeseen, and severe adverse events. A natural disaster in any of our major markets, or an unanticipated business disruption caused, for example, by internet security threats, damage to global communication networks, or similar events could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. EPIDEMIC DISEASES OR THE PERCEPTION OF THEIR EFFECTS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, OR CASH FLOWS.. 23. Table of Contents. Outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as the Ebola virus, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or the H1N1 virus, could divert medical resources and priorities towards the treatment of that disease. An outbreak of a contagious disease could also negatively affect hospital admission rates. This could negatively impact the number of da Vinci procedures performed and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. IF WE DO NOT SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR COLLABORATION ARRANGEMENTS, LICENSING ARRANGEMENTS, JOINT VENTURES, STRATEGIC ALLIANCES, OR PARTNERSHIPS WITH THIRD PARTIES, WE MAY NOT REALIZE THE EXPECTED BENEFITS FROM SUCH ALLIANCES AND IT MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, OR CASH FLOWS.. From time to time, we enter into collaborations, in-licensing arrangements, joint ventures, strategic alliances or partnerships to complement or augment our research and development, product development, training, procedure development, and marketing efforts. For example, in 2016, we entered into an agreement to form a joint venture with Fosun Pharma to research, develop, manufacture, and sell robotic-assisted catheter-based medical devices. Proposing, negotiating, and implementing collaborations, in-licensing agreements, joint ventures, strategic alliances, or partnerships may be a lengthy and complex process. In addition, other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, technology, or other business resources, may compete with us for these opportunities or arrangements. As a result, we may not identify, secure, or complete any such arrangements in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or on otherwise favorable terms, if it all.. There can be no assurance we will realize the expected benefits from these alliances. In addition, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision making authority regarding any collaboration or other arrangement, which could create the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, and our alliances may have economic or business interests that are, or that may become, inconsistent with our interests. It is possible that conflicts may arise in these relationships, such as conflicts concerning the achievement of performance milestones, or the interpretation of significant terms under any agreement, such as those related to financial obligations, termination rights or the ownership or control of intellectual property developed during the collaboration. These alliances can be difficult to manage, given the potentially different interests of the parties involved, and we could suffer delays in product development or other operational difficulties.. The alliances may involve significant expense and divert the focus or attention of our management and other key personnel. Any of these relationships may require us to incur non-recurring and other charges, increase our near- and long-term expenditures, or disrupt our ordinary business activities. Such arrangements may also expose us to numerous known and unknown risks, including unique risks with respect to the economic, political, and regulatory environment of any foreign entities with whom we partner, including Fosun Pharma. Any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. IF WE FAIL TO SUCCESSFULLY ACQUIRE OR INTEGRATE NEW BUSINESSES, PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGY, WE MAY NOT REALIZE EXPECTED BENEFITS OR OUR BUSINESS MAY BE HARMED.. We need to grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands, and competitive pressures.  In some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products, or technologies rather than through internal development.. Identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. In addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results.  Even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products, technologies, or employees into our operations, or may not fully realize some of the expected synergies. An acquired company may have deficiencies in product quality, regulatory marketing authorizations, or intellectual property protections, which are not detected during due diligence activities or which are unasserted at the time of acquisition. It may be difficult, expensive, and time consuming for us to re-establish market access, regulatory compliance, or cure such deficiencies in product quality or intellectual property protection in such cases, which may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, or cash flows.. Integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources.  In many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company at a business that lacks them.  In addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company's customers, suppliers, distributors, or other partners for a variety of reasons, including that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. 24. Table of Contents. CHANGES TO FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS MAY AFFECT OUR REPORTED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing standards or the reevaluation of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.. WE USE ESTIMATES, MAKE JUDGMENTS, AND APPLY CERTAIN METHODS IN MEASURING THE PROGRESS OF OUR BUSINESS IN DETERMINING OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND IN APPLYING OUR ACCOUNTING POLICIES. AS THESE ESTIMATES, JUDGMENTS, AND METHODS CHANGE, OUR ASSESSMENT OF THE PROGRESS OF OUR BUSINESS AND OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD VARY.. The methods, estimates, and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time may lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in any of our assumptions may adversely affect our reported financial results.. We utilize methods for determining surgical market sizes as well as the number and type (cancerous or benign) of certain da Vinci procedures performed that involve estimates and judgments, which are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Our estimates of surgical market sizes or the number and type of da Vinci procedures performed do not have an impact on our results of operations, but are used to estimate the progress of our business. Estimates and judgments for determining surgical market sizes and the number and type of da Vinci procedures and the accuracy of these estimates may be impacted over time with changes in treatment modalities, hospital reporting behavior, system internet connectivity, distributor reporting behavior, increases in procedures per field employee, and other factors.  In addition, from time to time, we may change the method for determining market sizes and the number and type of da Vinci procedures, causing variation in our reporting.. CHANGES IN OUR EFFECTIVE TAX RATE MAY IMPACT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.. We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. Tax rates in these jurisdictions may be subject to significant change due to economic and/or political conditions. A number of other factors may also impact our future effective tax rate including:. • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;. • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities;. • changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;. • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired intangibles and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions;. • changes in availability of tax credits, tax holidays, and tax deductions;. • changes in share-based compensation; and. • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in generally accepted accounting principles.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. federal government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"2017 Tax Act\"). The 2017 Tax Act significantly changed the existing U.S. corporate income tax laws by, among other things, lowering the corporate tax rate, implementing a territorial tax system, and imposing a one-time deemed repatriation toll tax on cumulative undistributed foreign earnings, for which we have not previously provided U.S. taxes. Given the timing, scope, and magnitude of the changes enacted by the 2017 Tax Act, along with on-going implementation efforts, guidance, and other developments from U.S. regulatory and standard-setting bodies, the completion of the accounting for certain tax items included in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, that have been reported as provisional, or where no estimate of the impact was provided as a result of us not having the necessary information, may be subject to material change. Any significant changes to our future effective tax rate, including final resolution of provisional amounts relating to effects of the 2017 Tax Act, may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. DISRUPTION OF CRITICAL INFORMATION SYSTEMS OR MATERIAL BREACHES IN THE SECURITY OF OUR SYSTEMS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS, CUSTOMER RELATIONS, AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.. Information technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and accurately produce our financial statements. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. If our data management systems do not effectively collect, store, process, and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast, and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially.  Any such impairment could materially. 25. Table of Contents. and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the timeliness with which we report our internal and external operating results.. Our business requires us to use and store customer, employee, and business partner personally identifiable information (\"PII\").  This may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers, and payment account information. We require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems. We also use encryption and authentication technologies to secure the transmission and storage of data. These security measures may be compromised as a result of security breaches by unauthorized persons, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management, or other irregularity, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to our data or accounts. Third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords, or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. For example, our employees have received \"phishing\" emails and phone calls attempting to induce them to divulge passwords and other sensitive information.. In addition, unauthorized persons may attempt to hack into our products or systems to obtain personal data relating to patients or employees, our confidential or proprietary information or confidential information we hold on behalf of third parties. If the unauthorized persons successfully hack into or interfere with our connected products or services, they may create issues with product functionality that could pose a risk of loss of data, a risk to patient safety, and a risk of product recall or field activity. We have programs in place to detect, contain, and respond to data security incidents, and we make ongoing improvements to our information-sharing products in order to minimize vulnerabilities, in accordance with industry and regulatory standards. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect, we may not be able to anticipate and prevent these intrusions or mitigate them when and if they occur.. We also rely on external vendors to supply and/or support certain aspects of our information technology systems. The systems of these external vendors may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security of our own systems, and we are dependent on these third parties to deploy appropriate security programs to protect their systems.. While we devote significant resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our systems and data, these security measures cannot provide absolute security. We may experience a breach of our systems and may be unable to protect sensitive data. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate network security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs, and security vulnerabilities could be significant. Our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in unexpected interruptions, delays, cessation of service, and harm to our business operations. Moreover, if a computer security breach affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of PII, our reputation and brand could be materially damaged and use of our products and services could decrease. We would also be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and potential liability, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT. CHANGES IN HEALTHCARE LEGISLATION AND POLICY MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.. In the U.S., there have been and continue to be a number of legislative initiatives to contain healthcare costs. In March 2010, the PPACA was enacted, which made changes that have impacted and are expected to significantly impact the pharmaceutical and medical device industries.. The PPACA contained a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund health insurance coverage expansions among other things. This includes fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers. For sales between January 1, 2013, and December 31, 2015, medical device manufacturers were required to pay an excise tax (or sales tax) of 2.3% of certain U.S. medical device revenues. Though there were some exceptions to the excise tax, this excise tax did apply to all or most of our products sold within the U.S. In December 2015, the former U.S. President signed into law the Appropriations Act. The Appropriations Act included a two-year moratorium on the medical device excise tax such that medical device revenues in 2016 and 2017 were exempt from the excise tax. New legislation was passed in January 2018 such that MDET will be delayed until January 1, 2020.. The PPACA also implemented a number of Medicare payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians, and other providers to improve the coordination, quality, and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models, and appropriated funding for comparative effectiveness research.. The taxes imposed by the PPACA and the expansion in the government's role in the U.S. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits to us, lower reimbursement by payors for our products, and/or reduced medical procedure volumes, all of which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. 26. Table of Contents. Since its enactment, there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the PPACA, as well as efforts by the current U.S. administration to modify, repeal or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the PPACA. Since January 2017, the U.S. President has signed two Executive Orders designed to delay the implementation of certain provisions of the PPACA or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the PPACA. The current U.S. administration has also announced that it will discontinue the payment of cost-sharing reduction (\"CSR\") payments to insurance companies until Congress approves the appropriation of funds for the CSR payments. The loss of the CSR payments is expected to increase premiums on certain policies issued by qualified health plans under the PPACA. A bipartisan bill to appropriate funds for CSR payments has been introduced in the Senate, but the future of that bill is uncertain. In addition, CMS has recently proposed regulations that would give states greater flexibility in setting benchmarks for insurers in the individual and small group marketplaces, which may have the effect of relaxing the essential health benefits required under the PPACA for plans sold through such marketplaces. Because of the 2017 Tax Act, the PPACA's individual mandate penalty for not having health insurance coverage will be eliminated starting in 2019. It is unclear what impact the elimination of the individual mandate penalty will have on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Further, each chamber of Congress has put forth multiple bills designed to repeal or repeal and replace portions of the PPACA. Although the majority of these measures have not been enacted by Congress to date, Congress will likely continue to consider other legislation to repeal or repeal and replace elements of the PPACA.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted. These changes included aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013, and will remain in effect through 2025 unless additional Congressional action is taken. On January 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several types of providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. MACRA repealed the formula by which Medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments scheduled to begin in 2019 that are based on various performance measures and physicians' participation in alternative payment models such as accountable care organizations. It is unclear what impact new quality and payment programs, such as MACRA, may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Individual states in the U.S. have also become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, and discounts, and require marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures.. We expect additional state and federal health care reform measures to be adopted in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our customers. Any changes of, or uncertainty with respect to future reimbursement rates, or changes in hospital admission rates could impact our customers' demand for our products and services, which in turn  could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. Further, the federal, state and local governments, Medicare, Medicaid, managed care organizations, and foreign governments have in the past considered, are currently considering, and may in the future consider healthcare policies and proposals intended to curb rising healthcare costs, including those that could significantly affect both private and public reimbursement for healthcare services. Future significant changes in the healthcare systems in the U.S. or other countries, including retroactive and prospective rate and coverage criteria changes, competitive bidding or tender processes for certain products and services, and other changes intended to reduce expenditures along with uncertainty about whether and how changes may be implemented, could have a negative impact on the demand for our products.  We are unable to predict whether other healthcare policies, including policies stemming from legislation or regulations affecting our business may be proposed or enacted in the future; what effect such policies would have on our business; or the effect ongoing uncertainty about these matters will have on the purchasing decisions of our customers.. WE ARE SUBJECT TO FEDERAL, STATE AND FOREIGN LAWS GOVERNING OUR BUSINESS PRACTICES WHICH, IF VIOLATED, COULD RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL PENALTIES. ADDITIONALLY, CHALLENGES TO OR INVESTIGATION INTO OUR PRACTICES COULD CAUSE ADVERSE PUBLICITY AND BE COSTLY TO RESPOND TO AND THUS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act requires us to track and disclose the source of any tantalum, tin, gold, and tungsten used in manufacturing which may originate in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining regions (so called \"conflict minerals\"). These metals are central to the technology industry and are present in some of our products as component parts. In most cases no acceptable alternative material exists which has the necessary properties. Because it is not possible to determine the source of the metals by analysis, we must obtain a good faith description of the source of the intermediate components and raw materials from parties in our supply chain. The components that incorporate those metals may originate from many sources and we purchase fabricated products from manufacturers who may have a long and difficult-to-trace supply chain. As the spot price of these materials varies, producers of the metal intermediates can be expected to change the mix of sources used. Accordingly, components and assemblies we buy may have a mix of sources as their origin. We are required to carry out a diligent effort to determine and disclose the source of these materials. There can be no assurance we can obtain this information. 27. Table of Contents. accurately or reliably, or at all, from intermediate producers who may be unwilling or unable to provide this information or further identify their sources of supply or to notify us if these sources change. In addition, these metals are subject to price fluctuations and shortages which can affect our ability to obtain the manufactured materials we rely on at favorable terms or from consistent sources. These changes could have an adverse impact on our ability to manufacture and market our devices and products.. The Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback laws, and several similar state laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, prohibit payments, or other remuneration that could be considered to induce hospitals, physicians, or other potential purchasers of our products either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order, of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid and any other third-party payor programs. Further, the PPACA, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes.  A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. Although we would not submit claims directly to government payors, manufacturers can be held liable under the federal false claim act if they are deemed to \"cause\" the submission of false or fraudulent claims by, for example, providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers or promoting a product off-label.. These laws may affect our sales, marketing, and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians, or other potential purchasers of our products. They particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting, and other service arrangements. These laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. Violating anti-kickback laws can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial and include exclusion from government healthcare programs for non-compliance.  Even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to defend, and thus could harm our business and results of operations.. The PPACA also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements on device manufacturers for any \"transfer of value\" made or distributed to prescribers and other healthcare providers.  Such information must be made publicly available in a searchable format.  In addition, device manufacturers are required to report and disclose any ownership or investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members, as well as any transfers of value made to such physician owners and investors, during the preceding calendar year. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $165,786 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1.105 million per year for \"knowing failures\"), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. Device manufacturers are required to submit reports to CMS by the 90th day of each calendar year.. In addition, there has been increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians, including the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration to physicians. Certain states mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws, impose restrictions on device manufacturer marketing practices, and/or require the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration to physicians or marketing expenditures and pricing information. The shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may be found out of compliance of one or more of the requirements, subjecting us to significant civil monetary penalties.. Compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our OUS operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties in the U.S. and/or abroad.  These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, which became effective on July 1, 2011. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation.  Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies.. OUR PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO A LENGTHY AND UNCERTAIN DOMESTIC REGULATORY REVIEW PROCESS. IF WE DO NOT OBTAIN AND MAINTAIN THE NECESSARY DOMESTIC REGULATORY AUTHORIZATIONS, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO PROVIDE OUR PRODUCTS IN THE U.S.. Our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. by the FDA. The FDA regulates the development and clinical testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, promotion, sales, distribution, and post-market support and medical device reporting in the U.S. to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. In order for us to market products for use in the U.S., we generally must first obtain clearance from the FDA pursuant to Section 510(k) of the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetic Act (\"FFDCA\"). Clearance under Section 510(k) requires demonstration that a new device is substantially equivalent to another device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered (\"pre-amendment\") status.. 28. Table of Contents. If we significantly modify our products after they receive FDA clearance, the FDA may require us to submit a separate 510(k) or premarket approval application (\"PMA\") for the modified product before we are permitted to market the products in the U.S. In addition, if we develop products in the future that are not considered to be substantially equivalent to a device with 510(k) clearance or grandfathered status, we will be required to obtain FDA approval by submitting a PMA. A PMA is typically a much more complex, lengthy and burdensome application than a 510(k). To support a PMA, the FDA would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective.  In some cases such studies may be requested for a 510(k) as well. The FDA may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our 510(k) or PMA submissions, or we may encounter significant difficulties and costs in our efforts to obtain FDA clearance or approval, all of which could delay or preclude the sale of new products in the U.S. Moreover, we may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, in which case the FDA may not grant any necessary clearances or approvals. In addition, the FDA may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. Product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval.  Any delays or failure to obtain FDA clearance or approvals of new products we develop, any limitations imposed by the FDA on new product use, or the costs of obtaining FDA clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. In addition, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may change their policies, adopt additional regulations, or revise existing regulations, or take other actions which may prevent or delay approval or clearance of our products under development or impact our ability to modify our currently approved or cleared products on a timely basis. We may be found non-compliant as a result of future changes in, or interpretations of, regulations by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. We also cannot predict the likelihood, nature, or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation, administrative, or executive action. For example, certain policies of the current U.S. administration may impact our business and industry. Namely, the current U.S. administration has taken several executive actions, including the issuance of a number of Executive Orders, that could impose significant burdens on, or otherwise materially delay, the FDA's ability to engage in routine regulatory and oversight activities such as implementing statutes through rulemaking, issuance of guidance, and review and approval of marketing applications. It is difficult to predict how these requirements will be implemented, and the extent to which they will impact the FDA's ability to exercise its regulatory authority. If these executive actions impose constraints on FDA's ability to engage in oversight and implementation activities in the normal course, our business may be negatively impacted.. In order to conduct a clinical investigation involving human subjects for the purpose of demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of a medical device, a company must, among other things, apply for and obtain Institutional Review Board (\"IRB\") approval of the proposed investigation. In addition, if the clinical study involves a \"significant risk\" (as defined by the FDA) to human health, the sponsor of the investigation must also submit and obtain FDA approval of an Investigational Device Exemption (\"IDE\") application. Many of our products to date have been or would be considered significant risk devices requiring IDE approval prior to investigational use. We may not be able to obtain FDA and/or IRB approval to undertake clinical trials in the U.S. for any new devices we intend to market in the U.S. in the future. If we obtain such approvals, we may not be able to conduct studies which comply with the IDE and other regulations governing clinical investigations or the data from any such trials may not support clearance or approval of the investigational device. Failure to obtain such approvals or to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certainty that clinical trials will meet desired endpoints, produce meaningful or useful data and be free of unexpected adverse effects, or that the FDA will accept the validity of foreign clinical study data cannot be assured, and such uncertainty could preclude or delay market clearance or authorizations resulting in significant financial costs and reduced revenue.. In addition, some products may be regulated by the FDA as drugs, biologics, or combination devices which carry still greater requirements for clinical trials, regulatory submissions, and approvals.. COMPLYING WITH FDA REGULATIONS IS A COMPLEX PROCESS, AND OUR FAILURE TO COMPLY FULLY COULD SUBJECT US TO SIGNIFICANT ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.. Because our products, including the da Vinci Surgical System, are commercially distributed, numerous quality and post-market regulatory requirements apply, including the following:. • continued compliance to the QSR, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, documentation, and other quality assurance procedures during the development and manufacturing process;. • labeling regulations;. • the FDA's general prohibition against false or misleading statements in the labeling or promotion of products for unapproved or \"off-label\" uses;. • stringent complaint reporting and Medical Device Reporting (\"MDR\") regulations, which requires that manufacturers keep detailed records of investigations or complaints against their devices and to report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur;. 29. Table of Contents. • adequate use of the Corrective and Preventive Actions process to identify and correct or prevent significant systemic failures of products or processes or in trends which suggest same; and. • the reporting of Corrections and Removals, which requires that manufacturers report to the FDA recalls and field corrective actions taken to reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the FFDCA that may pose a risk to health.. We are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements.  If the FDA finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from inspectional observations (Form FDA 483) to a public Warning Letter to more severe civil and criminal sanctions including the seizure of our products and equipment or ban on the import or export of our products. The FDA has in the past issued and could in the future issue Warning Letters or other communications to us. If we fail to satisfy or remediate the matters discussed in any such Warning Letters or communications, the FDA could take further enforcement action, including prohibiting the sale or marketing of the affected product. Our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The receipt of a Warning Letter places certain limits on the ability to obtain FDA issued Certificates to Foreign Government (\"CFGs\") used for new and re-registration of products in certain foreign countries.. The FDA also strictly regulates labeling, advertising, promotion, and other activities relating to the marketing of our products. Medical devices may be promoted only for their cleared or approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the cleared or approved label. It is possible that federal or state enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under a variety of statutory authorities, including under the FFDCA as well as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement.. In addition, any modification or change of medical devices cleared for market requires the manufacturer to make a determination whether the change is significant enough to require new 510(k) clearance. We have created labeling, advertising, and user training for the da Vinci Surgical System to describe specific surgical procedures that we believe are fully within the scope of our existing 510(k) indications for use stated in our 510(k) clearances.  Although we have relied on expert in-house and external staff, consultants and advisors, some of whom were formerly employed by FDA and familiar with FDA perspective, we cannot provide assurance that the FDA would agree that all such specific procedures are within the scope of the existing general clearance or that we have compiled adequate information to support the safety and efficacy of using the da Vinci Surgical System for all such specific procedures. From time to time we modify our products, including the hardware and software in the da Vinci Surgical System, after we obtain 510(k) clearance from the FDA for the devices in ways that we do not believe require new 510(k) clearance. We cannot provide assurance that the FDA would agree in all cases with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. If the FDA disagrees with our assessments that a new 510(k) clearance was not required prior to commercializing the devices with these changes or modifications, then the FDA could impose enforcement sanctions and/or require us to obtain 510(k) clearance for any modification to our products. We may be prohibited from marketing the modified device until such 510(k) clearance is granted.. We have a wholly owned manufacturing facility located in Mexicali, Mexico which manufactures reusable and disposable surgical instruments. This facility is registered with the FDA as well as Mexican authorities. The facility is operated under U.S. and international quality system regulations including those applicable to Canada, the European Union, and Japan among others.  Our wholly owned manufacturing facility in Mexicali, Mexico has an FDA Establishment Registration but has not been inspected by the FDA to date. If the FDA were to identify non-conformances in our product documentation or quality system compliance, it could hold indefinitely the importation of instruments at the border which would deprive us of the ability to sell and supply the majority of our customers until the FDA requirements have been satisfied. Similar supply disruptions could occur if key suppliers outside of the U.S. were to encounter non-conformances with their documentation or quality system compliance.. OUR PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO VARIOUS INTERNATIONAL REGULATORY PROCESSES AND APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS. IF WE DO NOT OBTAIN AND MAINTAIN THE NECESSARY INTERNATIONAL REGULATORY APPROVALS, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO PROVIDE OUR PRODUCTS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.. To be able to provide our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries which may differ substantially from those of the U.S. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals is complex, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or to obtain such approvals on a favorable schedule. If we fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. In particular, if the FDA refuses to provide CFGs our ability to register products or renew such registrations may be delayed or denied.. The EU requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the CE mark, for compliance with the Medical  Device Directive (93/42/EEC), as amended, to their products before selling them in member countries of the EU. The CE mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable European medical device. 30. Table of Contents. directives. In order to obtain the authorization to affix the CE mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes and products meet certain European quality standards. In January 1999, we received permission to affix the CE mark to our da Vinci Surgical System and EndoWrist instruments and have maintained this authorization continuously since that time. From time to time we seek the authorization to affix the CE mark to new or modified products. Subsequent products and accessories have received marketing authorization by our Notified Body, PreSafe.. As we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new instruments, we currently plan to apply for authorization to affix the CE mark to such products. In addition, we are subject to annual regulatory audits in order to maintain the CE mark authorizations we have already obtained including inspection of our compliance to required standards and directives.  We cannot be certain we will be able to affix the CE mark for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. If we are unable to maintain permission to affix the CE mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the EU and many affiliated countries that accept the CE mark, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Some member states of the EU have additional requirements for registration and notification which may add to the time and effort to obtain market access. In addition, the regulations applied to end users of our products may increase over time, forcing us to provide additional solutions to regulations which do not apply directly to us, but which apply indirectly as they may limit our customers' ability to use our products.. In April 2017, the Medical Device Regulation was adopted to replace the Medical Device Directive (93/42/EEC), as amended. The Medical Device Regulation will apply after a three-year transition period and imposes stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices and grants Notified Bodies increased post-market surveillance authority. We may be subject to risks associated with additional testing, modification, certification, or amendment of our existing market authorizations, or we may be required to modify products already installed at our customers' facilities to comply with the official interpretations of these revised regulations.. To date, we received approvals from the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (\"MHLW\") for our da Vinci S, Si, and Xi Surgical Systems and various associated instruments and accessories for use in certain da Vinci procedures. We may seek additional approvals for other products and/or indications; however, there can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted. In addition, because not all of our instruments have received product approvals, and reimbursement is an additional process to generate market acceptance, it is possible that procedures will be adopted slowly or not at all. Sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are reimbursed by governmental health administration authorities. To date, we have received reimbursement approval for prostatectomy and partial nephrectomy procedures in Japan. There are multiple pathways to obtain reimbursement for procedures including those that require in-country clinical data and which are considered for reimbursed status in April of even numbered years. If we are not successful in obtaining the necessary reimbursement approvals or obtaining approvals for future products and procedures, then the demand for our products could be limited. These limitations could eliminate a significant market opportunity for our products in Japan.. Our capital sales in China are subject to importation authorizations and central purchasing tender processes. Therefore, future system sales and our ability to grow future procedure volumes are dependent on the completion of these central purchasing tender authorizations, the most recent of which expired at the end of 2015. The timing and magnitude of these future authorizations, which may determine our system placements in future years, is not certain and we expect to continue to experience variability in the timing of capital sales in China.. IF OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES DO NOT CONTINUE TO MEET FEDERAL, STATE, OR OTHER MANUFACTURING STANDARDS, WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO TEMPORARILY CEASE ALL OR PART OF OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS, IMPORT/EXPORT OF OUR PRODUCTS, AND/OR RECALL SOME PRODUCTS WHICH WOULD RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT PRODUCT DELIVERY DELAYS AND LOST REVENUE.. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities, and our operations will continue to be regulated and inspected by the FDA and other regulatory agencies for compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice requirements contained in the QSR and other regulatory requirements. We are also required to comply with International Organization for Standardization (\"ISO\") quality system standards as well as European Directives and norms in order to produce products for sale in the EU. In addition, many countries such as Canada and Japan have very specific additional regulatory requirements for quality assurance and manufacturing. If we fail to continue to comply with Good Manufacturing Practice requirements, as well as ISO or other regulatory standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations.. We continue to be subject to FDA and certain other inspections at any time. Maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly.  We cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with Good Manufacturing Practice requirements or ISO standards and other regulatory requirements in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities.. Our Sunnyvale, California facility is licensed by the State of California to manufacture medical devices.  We have been subject to periodic inspections by the California Department of Health Services Food and Drug Branch and, if we are unable to maintain. 31. Table of Contents. this license following any future inspections, we will be unable to manufacture or ship some products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2012 the State of California announced suspension of routine inspections but this policy could be modified or inspections could be resumed for specific circumstances. In addition, both our Sunnyvale, California and Mexicali, Mexico facilities are subject to periodic inspections by other regulatory bodies, including third party auditors on behalf of national regulatory authorities.  Compliance with multiple regulatory standards is complex, difficult and costly to maintain, and material deficiencies could result in significant limitations on our ability to manufacture, transport, and sell our products in one or more countries.. IF HOSPITALS AND OTHER SURGERY FACILITIES DO NOT CONTINUE TO MEET FEDERAL, STATE, OR OTHER REGULATORY STANDARDS, THEY MAY BE REQUIRED TO TEMPORARILY CEASE ALL OR PART OF THEIR DA VINCI UTILIZATION.. Our global customers are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities. Our customers are required to comply with applicable local and international regulations, including with respect to the reprocessing of da Vinci instruments and accessories.  Hospitals may not follow cleaning and sterilization instructions properly, or equipment used for cleaning and sterilization may malfunction or be used improperly. If our customers deviate from cleaning and sterilization instructions, regulatory authorities may require them to suspend use of da Vinci Surgical Systems.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO FULLY PROTECT AND SUCCESSFULLY DEFEND OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY FROM USE BY THIRD PARTIES, OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE IN THE MARKET WILL BE HARMED.. Our commercial success depends in part on obtaining patent protection for the proprietary technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents against infringing products and/or services in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent oppositions, reviews, or reexaminations. We will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our patent rights. We do not know whether we will be successful in obtaining the desired patent protection for our new proprietary technologies, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable when challenged.  The success of defending our proprietary rights can be highly uncertain because it involves complex and often evolving legal issues and procedures that are dependent on particular facts of each case.. In addition to patents, we also rely on other intellectual property rights such as trade secret, copyright, and trademark laws to protect proprietary technologies. We further utilize nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions as well as technical measures to protect our proprietary technologies.  Nevertheless, these measures may be inadequate in protecting our technologies.  If these measures are proved to be inadequate in protecting our technologies, our competitive advantages may be reduced.  Moreover, we may not have adequate remedies for potential breaches by employees, consultants, and others who participate in developing our proprietary technologies against their agreements with us regarding intellectual property. As a result, our trade secrets may be lost.  Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technologies without infringing any of our intellectual property which would harm our ability to compete in the market.. As foreign markets become more significant in revenue for us, our foreign operations and strategic alliances with foreign entities will likely increase. Our exposure to risks associated with these operations requires us to increase our reliance on protecting our intellectual property against infringing products and/or services in markets outside the U.S. The laws and judicial systems in these countries may introduce yet another level of uncertainty to our effort to obtain the desired protection as well as defending our rights.. OTHERS MAY BE SUCCESSFUL IN ASSERTING THAT OUR PRODUCTS INFRINGE THEIR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, WHICH MAY CAUSE US TO PAY SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGES AND/OR ENJOIN US FROM COMMERCIALIZING OUR PRODUCTS.. As we continue to introduce and commercialize new products and technologies, there may be U.S. and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to our products. Some of these patents may be broad enough to cover one or more aspects of our products.  We do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be held valid, enforceable and infringed. From time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties accusing us of infringing and/or inviting us to license their patents. We may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these third parties.. We cannot be certain that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we may have concerning invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement of any third-party patent. In addition, other parties may have filed or will file patent applications covering products that are similar or identical to ours. We cannot be certain that patents issuing from our own patent application covering our products will have a priority date over any patents issuing from applications filed by a third party.. The medical device industry has experienced extensive intellectual property litigation and administrative proceedings. If third parties assert infringement claims or institute administrative proceedings against us, our technical and management personnel will. 32. Table of Contents. need to spend time and effort and we will incur large expenses in defending these attacks. We cannot be certain that we will prevail in infringement, invalidity or unenforceability claims against us. If plaintiffs in patent administrative proceedings are successful, our patent portfolio may be adversely affected. If plaintiffs in any patent action are successful, we may be enjoined from selling our products, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, or we may be required to obtain a license that requires us to pay substantial royalties. In addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated or threatened against us could cause our stock price to decline.. OUR PRODUCTS RELY ON LICENSES FROM THIRD PARTIES, AND IF WE LOSE ACCESS TO THESE TECHNOLOGIES, OUR REVENUES COULD DECLINE.. We rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our products. We have entered into license agreements with several industry partners.  Any of these agreements may be terminated for breach.  If any of these agreements are terminated, we may be unable to reacquire the necessary license on satisfactory terms, or at all. The loss or failure to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay further development or commercialization of our products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. RISKS RELATING TO OUR TRADING MARKETS. OUR FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE BELOW SECURITIES ANALYSTS' OR INVESTORS' EXPECTATIONS, WHICH COULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE.. Due to the nascent nature of our industry, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our market and affect our business. The revenue and income potential of our market are unproven, and we may be unable to maintain or grow our revenue. Our products typically have lengthy sales cycles. In addition, our costs may be higher than we anticipated. If we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Further, future revenue from sales of our products is difficult to forecast because the market for new surgical technologies is still evolving. Our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including:. • the extent to which our products achieve and maintain market acceptance;. • actions relating to regulatory matters;. • our timing and ability to develop our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities;. • demand for our products;. • the size and timing of particular sales and any collection delays related to those sales;. • product quality and supply problems;. • the progress of surgical training in the use of our products;. • our ability to develop, introduce, and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis;. • third-party payor reimbursement policies;. • our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third party challenges;. • our ability to license additional intellectual property rights; and. • the progress and results of clinical trials.. Our operating results in any particular period will not be a reliable indication of our future performance. It is possible that in future periods our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock and the value of your investment will likely decline.. OUR STOCK PRICE HAS BEEN, AND WILL LIKELY CONTINUE TO BE, VOLATILE.. The market price of our common stock has experienced fluctuations and may fluctuate significantly in the future. For example, during fiscal 2015, it reached a high of $185.73 and a low of $151.62; during fiscal 2016, it reached a high of $241.61 and a low of $169.09; and during fiscal 2017, it reached a high of $403.70 and a low of $209.83, in each case after giving effect to the three-for-one stock split of our issued and outstanding common stock in October 2017. Our stock price can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including:. • announcements about us or our competitors;. • variations in operating results and financial guidance;. • introduction or abandonment of new technologies or products;. • regulatory approvals and enforcement actions;. • changes in product pricing policies;. • changes in earnings estimates by analysts;. 33. Table of Contents. • changes in accounting policies;. • economic changes and overall market volatility;. • litigation; and. • political uncertainties.. In addition, stock markets generally have experienced, and in the future may experience significant price and volume volatility. This volatility has a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. Further, the securities of many medical device companies, including us, have historically been subject to extensive price and volume fluctuations that may affect the market price of their common stock. If these broad market fluctuations continue, it may have a material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock."
