[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risks set forth below, in addition to the other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition to the risks set forth below and the other risks described in this annual report, there may also be additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. As a result, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us.. Risks Related to Our Business. Because we intend to continue to increase our commercial originations, our credit risk will increase.. At December 31, 2013, our portfolio of multi-family, commercial real estate, construction and C&I loans totaled $6.96 billion, or 53.3% of our total loans. We intend to increase our originations of multi-family, commercial real estate, construction and C&I loans, which generally have more risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Since repayment of commercial real estate loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower's properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the local economy. In addition, our commercial borrowers may have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Because we plan to continue to increase our originations of these loans, it may be necessary to increase the level of our allowance for loan losses because of the increased risk characteristics associated with these types of loans. Any such increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings.. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease.. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If actual results differ significantly from our assumptions, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2013 of $173.9 million was 1.33% of total loans and 124.30% of non-performing loans at such date.. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. A material increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 37. Table of Contents. A significant portion of our multi-family loan portfolio, commercial real estate portfolio and nearly all of our C&I loan portfolio is unseasoned. It is difficult to judge the future performance of unseasoned loans.. Our multi-family loan portfolio has increased to $3.99 billion at December 31, 2013 from $612.7 million at December 31, 2009. Our commercial real estate portfolio has increased to $2.51 billion at December 31, 2013 from $730.0 million at December 31, 2009. Our C&I loan portfolio has increased to $268.4 million at December 31, 2013 from $23.2 million at December 31, 2009. Consequently, a large portion of our multi-family loans, commercial real estate loans and nearly all of our C&I loans are unseasoned. It is difficult to assess the future performance of these recently originated loans because of their relatively limited payment history from which to judge future collectability, especially in the current weak economic environment. These loans may experience higher delinquency or charge-off levels than our historical loan portfolio experience, which could adversely affect our future performance.. Our liabilities reprice faster than our assets and future increases in interest rates will reduce our profits.. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings.. The interest income we earn on our assets and the interest expense we pay on our liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. Our liabilities generally have shorter contractual maturities than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Management of Market Risk.\". In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates causes increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities as borrowers refinance their debt to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest the funds from faster prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. Conversely, an increase in interest rates generally reduces prepayments. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans.. Changes in interest rates also affect the current market value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2013, the fair value of our total securities portfolio was $1.62 billion. Unrealized net losses on securities available-for-sale are reported as a separate component of equity. To the extent interest rates increase and the value of our available-for-sale portfolio decreases, our stockholders' equity will be adversely affected.. We evaluate interest rate sensitivity using models that estimate the change in our net portfolio value over a range of interest rate scenarios. Net portfolio value is the discounted present value of expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet contracts. At December 31, 2013, in the event of a 200 basis point increase in interest rates, whereby rates increase evenly over a twelve-month period, and assuming management took no action to mitigate the effect of such change, the model projects that we would experience a 6.8% or $32.3 million decrease in net interest income and 15.7% or $239.3 million decrease in net portfolio value.. Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability.. During the past four years it has been the policy of the Federal Reserve Board to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at lower levels than available prior to 2008. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, over the past few years, this has been one factor contributing to the increase in our interest rate spread as interest rates decreased. However, our ability to lower our interest expense will be limited at these interest rate levels while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. Accordingly, our net interest income may be adversely affected and may decrease, which may have an adverse effect on our future profitability.. We may not be able to continue to grow our business, which may adversely impact our results of operations.. Our total assets have grown from approximately $8.4 billion at December 31, 2009 to $15.62 billion at December 31, 2013. Our business strategy calls for continued growth. Our ability to continue to grow depends, in part, upon our ability to open new. 38. Table of Contents. branch locations, successfully attract deposits, identify favorable loan and investment opportunities, and acquire other banks and non-bank entities. In the event that we do not continue to grow, our results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Our ability to grow successfully will depend on whether we can continue to fund this growth while maintaining cost controls and asset quality, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as national and regional economic conditions and interest rate trends. If we are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, such growth could adversely impact our earnings and financial condition.. We could be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers due to breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.. We sell into the secondary market a portion of the residential mortgage loans that we originate through our mortgage subsidiary, Investors Home Mortgage. The whole loan sale agreements we enter into in connection with such loan sales require us to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans in the event there is a breach of any of representations or warranties. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default of the borrower on a mortgage loan. We have established a reserve for estimated repurchase and indemnification obligations on the residential mortgage loans that we sell. We make various assumptions and judgments in determining this reserve. If our assumptions are incorrect, our reserve may not be sufficient to cover losses from repurchase and indemnification obligations related to our residential loans sold. Such event would have an adverse effect on our earnings.. We may incur impairments to goodwill.. At December 31, 2013, we had approximately $77.6 million recorded as goodwill. We evaluate goodwill for impairment, at least annually. Significant negative industry or economic trends, including declines in the market price of our common stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows or disruptions to our business, could result in impairments to goodwill. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely on projections of future operating performance. We operate in competitive environments and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. If our analysis results in impairment to goodwill, we would be required to record an impairment charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which such impairment is determined to exist. Any such change could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.. Investors Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the NJDBI, our chartering authority, by the FDIC, as insurer of our deposits, and by the recently created CFPB, with respect to consumer protection laws. As a bank holding company, Investors Bancorp will be subject to regulation and oversight by the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a bank and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the requirement for additional capital, the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, compliance and privacy issues (including anti-money laundering at Bank Secrecy Act Compliance) and approval of merger transactions. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, could have a material impact on Investors Bank, Investors Bancorp and our operations.. The potential exists for additional Federal or state laws and regulations regarding capital requirements, lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to remain active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the potential issuance of formal enforcement orders. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes could increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes, along with negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our on-going operations, costs and profitability.. A continuation or worsening of economic conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Although the U.S. economy has emerged from the severe recession that occurred in 2008 and 2009, economic growth has been slow and unemployment levels, while improving, remain high despite the Federal Reserve Board's unprecedented efforts to maintain low market interest rates and encourage economic growth. Recovery by many businesses has been impaired by lower consumer spending. A discontinuation of the Federal Reserve Board's bond purchasing program could result in higher interest. 39. Table of Contents. rates and reduced economic activity. Moreover, a return to prolonged deteriorating economic conditions could significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our on-going operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued elevated unemployment levels may result in greater loan delinquencies, increases in our nonperforming, criticized and classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our inability to achieve profitability on new branches may negatively affect our earnings.. We have expanded our presence throughout our market area and we intend to pursue further expansion through de novo branching or the purchase of branches from other financial institutions. The profitability of our expansion strategy will depend on whether the income that we generate from the new branches will offset the increased expenses resulting from operating these branches. We expect that it may take a period of time before these branches can become profitable, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. During this period, the expense of operating these branches may negatively affect our net income.. Growing by acquisition entails integration and certain other risks.. We completed the acquisition of Roma Financial Corporation on December 6, 2013 and completed the acquisition of Gateway Community Financial Corp. on  January 10, 2014. Failure to successfully integrate systems subsequent to the completion of these acquisitions could have a material impact on the operations of Investors Bank.. Future acquisition activity could dilute book value.. Both nationally and in New Jersey, the banking industry is undergoing consolidation marked by numerous mergers and acquisitions. From time to time we may be presented with opportunities to acquire institutions and/or bank branches and we may engage in discussions and negotiations. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and trading values, and therefore, may result in the dilution of our book value per share.. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, created a new CFPB, tightened capital standards and will continue to result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\") is significantly changing the current bank regulatory structure and affecting the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. However, it is expected that the legislation and implementing regulations will materially increase our operating and compliance costs.. The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit \"unfair, deceptive or abusive\" acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks with more than $10 billion in assets, such as Investors Bank. Banks with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act also weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws.. The Dodd-Frank Act requires minimum leverage (Tier 1) and risk-based capital requirements for bank and savings and loan holding companies that are no less than those applicable to banks, which will exclude certain instruments that previously have been eligible for inclusion by bank holding companies as Tier 1 capital, such as trust preferred securities.. Effective July 21, 2011, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts, which could result in an increase in our interest expense.. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC deposit insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution, rather than deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2009, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts had unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The legislation also increases the required minimum reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund from 1.15%. 40. Table of Contents. to 1.35% of insured deposits, and directs the FDIC to offset the effects of increased assessments on depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets.. The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called \"golden parachute\" payments. It also provides that the listing standards of the national securities exchanges shall require listed companies to implement and disclose \"clawback\" policies mandating the recovery of incentive compensation paid to executive officers in connection with accounting restatements. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives.. Effective December 10, 2013, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, federal banking and securities regulators issued final rules to implement Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act (the \"Volcker Rule\"). Generally, subject to a transition period and certain exceptions, the Volcker Rule restricts insured depository institutions and their affiliated companies from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, investing in funds with collateral comprised of less than 100% loans that are not registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\") and from engaging in hedging activities that do not hedge a specific identified risk. After the transition period, the Volcker Rule prohibitions and restrictions will apply to banking entities, including  Investors Bancorp, unless an exception applies.. We will become subject to more stringent capital requirements, which may adversely impact our return on equity, or constrain us from paying dividends or repurchasing shares.. In July 2013, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board approved a new rule that will substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to Investors Bank and Investors Bancorp. The final rule implements the \"Basel III\" regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act.. The final rule includes new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which will be effective for Investors Bank and Investors Bancorp on January 1, 2015, and refines the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating these ratios. The new minimum capital requirements will be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. The final rule also establishes a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5%, and will result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%; and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and will increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such actions.. The application of more stringent capital requirements for Investors Bank and Investors Bancorp could, among other things, result in lower returns on equity, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions constraining us from paying dividends or repurchasing shares if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements.. New regulations could restrict our ability to originate and sell mortgage loans.. The CFPB has issued a rule designed to clarify for lenders how they can avoid monetary damages under the Dodd-Frank Act, which would hold lenders accountable for ensuring a borrower's ability to repay a mortgage. Loans that meet this \"qualified mortgage\" definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Under the CFPB's rule, a \"qualified mortgage\" loan must not contain certain specified features, including:. • excessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less \"bona fide discount points\" for prime loans);. •interest-only payments;. •negative-amortization; and. •terms longer than 30 years.. Also, to qualify as a \"qualified mortgage,\" a borrower's total debt-to-income ratio may not exceed 43%. Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower for the loan and underwrite the. 41. Table of Contents. loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments. The CFPB's rule on qualified mortgages could limit our ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more expensive/and or time consuming to make these loans, which could limit our growth or profitability.. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with numerous commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have, have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we can. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. For additional information see \"Business of Investors Bank-Competition.\". Any future increase in FDIC insurance premiums will adversely impact our earnings.. As a \"large institution\" within the meaning of FDIC regulations (i.e., greater than $10 billion in assets), Investors Bank's deposit insurance premium is determined differently than smaller banks. Small banks are assessed based on a risk classification determined by examination ratings, financial ratios and certain specified adjustments. However, beginning in 2011, large institutions became subject to assessment based upon a more detailed scorecard approach involving (i) a performance score determined using forward-looking risk measures, including certain stress testing, and (ii) a loss severity score, which is designed to measure, based on modeling, potential loss to the FDIC insurance fund if the institution failed. The total score is converted to an assessment rate, subject to certain adjustments, with institutions deemed riskier paying higher assessments. In October 2012, the FDIC issued a final rule, effective March 1, 2013, which clarifies and refines its large bank assessment formula. Since the large institution assessment procedure is still relatively unknown, the long term effect on Investors Bank's deposit insurance assessment is uncertain.. We may eliminate dividends on our common stock.. On September 28, 2012, we declared our first quarterly cash dividend and we have paid quarterly cash dividend since then. Although we have begun paying quarterly cash dividends to our stockholders, stockholders are not entitled to receive dividends. Downturns in domestic and global economies and other factors could cause our board of directors to consider, among other things, the elimination of or reduction in the amount and/or frequency of cash dividends paid on our common stock.. We could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls.. A failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of us. We continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to continually strengthening our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and banking regulations. For example, we are planning a core system conversion in 2015 in an effort to further strengthen such internal controls and compliance systems, as well as allow for more  processing of more complex transactions by our customers. Failure to properly and timely implement the core system conversion could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Risks associated with system failures, interruptions, or breaches of security could negatively affect our earnings.. Information technology systems are critical to our business. We use various technology systems to manage our customer relationships, general ledger, securities investments, deposits, and loans. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions, and security breaches (including privacy breaches), but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition, any compromise of our systems could deter customers from using our products and services. Although we rely on security systems to provide security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security.. In addition, we outsource a majority of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. 42. Table of Contents. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business thereby subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our recruitment efforts may not be sufficient to implement our business strategy and execute successful operations.. As we continue to grow, we may find our recruitment efforts more challenging. If we do not succeed in attracting, hiring, and integrating experienced or qualified personnel, we may not be able to continue to successfully implement our business strategy.. We recently hired an asset based lending team and expanded our business lending into the healthcare market, both of which may expose us to increased lending risks and may have a negative effect on our results of operations.. In an effort to diversify our loan portfolio, we have recently hired an asset based lending team and a healthcare lending team. These types of loans generally have a higher risk of loss compared to our one- to four-family residential real estate loans and multi family loans, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. In addition, because we are not as experienced with these new loan products, we may require additional time and resources for offering and managing such products effectively or may be unsuccessful in offering such products at a profit.. Severe weather, acts of terrorism and other external events could impact our ability to conduct business.. Recent weather-related events have adversely impacted our market area, especially areas located near coastal waters and flood prone areas. Such events that may cause significant flooding and other storm-related damage may become more common events in the future. Financial institutions have been, and continue to be, targets of terrorist threats aimed at compromising operating and communication systems and the metropolitan New York area and Northern New Jersey remain central targets for potential acts of terrorism. Such events could cause significant damage, impact the stability of our facilities and result in additional expenses, impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, reduce the value of collateral securing repayment of our loans, and result in the loss of revenue. While we have established and regularly test disaster recovery procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition."
