[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to risk. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and our financial statements and the notes thereto, investors should consider the following risks when evaluating whether to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks occur, whether alone or in combination, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Additional risks that we do not presently know of or currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations cash flows and growth prospects.. Risks Related to our Business. As a business operating in the financial services industry, our business and operations may be adversely affected by current economic conditions.. Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services we offer, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the primary markets where we operate and in the U.S. as a whole. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence, limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital, increases in inflation or interest rates, high unemployment, natural disasters, or a combination of these or other factors. While economic conditions in our primary markets of south Louisiana have improved since the end of the economic recession, economic growth has been slow and uneven, and concerns still exist over the federal deficit, government spending, and economic risks. A return of recessionary conditions and/or negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Declines in real estate value and sales volumes and high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity and financial condition.. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of U.S. Treasury and mortgage-backed securities. The Federal Reserve increased the target range for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points in December 2016 and by a total of 75 basis points during 2017 and has indicated the potential for further gradual increases in the target rate depending on the economic outlook. As the federal funds rate increases, market interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery.. In addition, geopolitical matters, including international political unrest and slow growth in the global economy, as well as acts of terrorism, war and other violence could result in further disruptions in the financial markets. These negative events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, including our liquidity position, and may affect our ability to access capital.. Our business strategy includes the continuation of growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively.. We have grown our business primarily through de novo branching and through the acquisition of other financial institutions. Since June 14, 2006, we have opened nine de novo branches and acquired South Louisiana Business Bank (\"SLBB\") in 2011, First Community Bank (\"FCB\") in 2013, and Citizens Bancshares, Inc. (\"Citizens\") and BOJ Bancshares, Inc. (\"BOJ\") in 2017. We intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business through de novo branching and to evaluate attractive acquisition opportunities that are presented to us. Our growth prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies when expanding their franchise, including the following:. • Management of Growth. We may be unable to successfully maintain loan quality in the context of significant loan growth or maintain adequate management personnel and systems to oversee such growth, including internal audit, loan review and compliance personnel. Our growth may require that we implement additional policies, procedures and operating systems, and we may encounter difficulties in doing so at all or in a timely manner.. • Operating Results. There is no assurance that existing offices or future offices will maintain or achieve deposit levels, loan balances or other operating results necessary to avoid losses or produce profits. Our growth and de novo branching strategy necessarily entails growth in overhead expenses as we routinely add new offices and staff. Our historical results may not be indicative of future results or results that may be achieved as we continue to increase the number and concentration of our branch offices. Should any new location be unprofitable or marginally profitable, or should any existing location experience a decline in profitability or incur losses, the adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition could be more significant than would be the case for a larger company.. 16. • De Novo Branching. There are considerable costs involved in opening branches, and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset their costs until they have been in operation for at least a year or more. Accordingly, our de novo branches can be expected to negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branches reach certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in opening any of our de novo branches. We may be unable to accomplish future branch expansion plans due to a lack of available satisfactory sites, difficulties in acquiring such sites, increased expenses or loss of potential sites due to complexities associated with zoning and permitting processes, higher than anticipated merger and acquisition costs or other factors. Finally, we have no assurance our de novo branches or branches that we may acquire will be successful even after they have been established or acquired, as the case may be.. • Expansion into New Markets. As we grow into new markets in Louisiana and in other states, we are likely to encounter customer demographics and financial services offerings unlike those found in our current markets. In these markets we are likely to face competition from a wide array of financial institutions, including much larger, better-established financial institutions.. Failure to successfully address these issues could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our operating results could be materially adversely affected.. Our success depends significantly on our management team, and the loss of our senior executive officers or other key employees and our inability to recruit or retain suitable replacements could adversely affect our business, results of operations and growth prospects.. Our success depends significantly on the continued service and skills of our existing executive management team. The implementation of our business and growth strategies also depends significantly on our ability to retain employees with experience and business relationships within their respective market areas, as well as on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified senior and middle management. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers, and our officers may terminate their employment with us at any time. Competition for employees is intense, and we could have difficulty replacing such officers with personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to execute our business and growth strategies and who have ties to the communities within our market areas. The loss of any of our key personnel could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. As a community bank, our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the growth of our business.. We are a community bank and our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. Much of our growth over the past several years has depended on attracting new customers from competing financial institutions and increasing our market share, primarily through the involvement of our employees in the communities that we serve. Also, our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled management and employees is impacted by our reputation. A negative public opinion of our business can result from any number of activities, including our lending practices, corporate governance, and regulatory compliance, acquisitions, and actions taken by our regulators or by community organizations in response to these activities. Significant harm to our reputation could also arise as a result of regulatory or governmental actions, litigation, employee misconduct, or the activities of our customers, other participants in the financial services industry or our contractual counterparties, such as our service providers and vendors. Damage to our reputation could also adversely affect our credit ratings and access to capital markets.. Our business is concentrated in southern Louisiana, and a regional or local economic downturn affecting southern Louisiana may magnify the adverse effects and consequences to us.. We conduct our operations almost exclusively in southern Louisiana, and more specifically, in the Baton Rouge, New Orleans, Lafayette and Hammond metropolitan areas. At December 31, 2017, approximately 96% of the secured loans in our total loan portfolio were secured by properties and other collateral located in Louisiana, while approximately 68% of the loans in our loan portfolio (measured by dollar amount) were made to borrowers who live or work in either the Baton Rouge or New Orleans metropolitan area. This geographic concentration imposes a greater risk to us than to our competitors in the area who maintain significant operations outside of southern Louisiana. Accordingly, any regional or local economic downturn, or natural or man-made disaster, that affects southern Louisiana or existing or prospective property or borrowers in such area may affect us and our profitability more significantly and more adversely than our more geographically diversified competitors.. More particularly, much of our business development and marketing strategy is directed toward fulfilling the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. Such businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact our markets or the Louisiana market generally and these businesses are adversely affected, our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected.. 17. Adverse economic factors affecting particular industries could have a negative effect on our customers and their ability to make payments to us.. In addition to the geographic concentration of our markets, certain industry-specific economic factors also affect us. For example, a downturn in segments of the commercial and residential real estate industries in our markets due to adverse economic factors affecting particular industries could have an adverse effect on our customers. In addition, the energy sector, which is historically cyclical, has recently experienced significant volatility and a decline in oil and gas prices. While we consider our exposure to the energy sector to not be significant, comprising approximately 1% of total loans as of December 31, 2017, should the price of oil and gas decline further and/or remain at the current low price for an extended period, the general economic conditions in our south Louisiana markets could be negatively affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We have a significant number of loans secured by real estate, and a downturn in the real estate market could result in losses and negatively impact our profitability.. At December 31, 2017, approximately 83% of our total loan portfolio had real estate as a primary or secondary component of the collateral securing the loan. The real estate provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of a default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. Declines in real estate values in our southern Louisiana markets could significantly impair the value of the particular collateral securing our loans and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure for an amount necessary to satisfy the borrower's obligations to us. Furthermore, in a declining real estate market, we often will need to further increase our allowance for loan losses to address the deterioration in the value of the real estate securing our loans. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects.. Commercial real estate loans may expose us to greater risks than our other real estate loans.. Our loan portfolio includes nonowner-occupied commercial real estate loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes, which are secured by commercial properties, as well as real estate construction and development loans. As of December 31, 2017, our nonowner-occupied commercial real estate loans totaled $264.9 million, or 21% of our total loan portfolio.. Commercial real estate loans typically depend on cash flows from the property to service the debt. Cash flows, either in the form of rental income or the proceeds from sales of commercial real estate, may be affected significantly by general economic conditions. These loans expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be liquidated as easily as residential real estate. If we foreclose on these loans, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than for a one-to-four family residential property because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Additionally, nonowner-occupied commercial real estate loans generally involve relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, charge-offs on nonowner-occupied commercial real estate loans may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. Unexpected deterioration in the credit quality of our commercial real estate loan portfolio would require us to increase our provision for loan losses, which would reduce our profitability and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects.. We are exposed to consumer credit risk.. Historically, we have originated a significant number of consumer installment loans, particularly with respect to automobile finance. We are subject to credit risk resulting from defaults in payment or performance by customers for our loans, as well as loans that we sell to third parties but retain servicing rights. A weak economic environment and high unemployment rates could exert pressure on our auto loan customers resulting in higher delinquencies, repossessions and losses. There can be no assurances that our monitoring of our credit risk as it affects the value of these loans and the underlying collateral will be sufficient to prevent an effect on our profitability and financial condition.. 18. There are also risks with respect to our auto lending in particular. First, as an indirect auto lender, all of our auto loans were originated by dealerships with which we have relationships. As a result, we do not have relationships directly with the borrowers and are dependent on the relationships these dealerships have with their customers to make a determination on whether or not there are factors that would cause an otherwise qualified customer to not repay the loan. In addition, federal and state laws may prohibit, limit or delay our repossession and sale of vehicles on defaulted automobile loan contracts, which will impair our ability to recover losses on these loans. Additional factors that may affect our ability to recoup the full amount due on an indirect auto loan include, among other things, our failure to perfect our security interest in the relevant vehicle, depreciation, obsolescence, damage or loss to the vehicle and the impact of federal and state bankruptcy and insolvency laws. Furthermore, proceeds from the sale of repossessed vehicles can fluctuate significantly based upon market conditions. A deterioration in general economic conditions could result in a greater loss in the sale of repossessed vehicles than we have historically experienced.. In November 2015, the Bank announced that it was exiting the indirect auto loan origination business. The Bank discontinued accepting indirect auto loan applications December 31, 2015, but continued to process and fund applications that were accepted on or before that date. The Bank will continue to service the current auto loan portfolio for its duration, which bears the risks discussed above.. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses inherent in our loan portfolio, and we may be required to further increase our provision for loan losses.. Although we endeavor to diversify our loan portfolio in order to minimize the effect of economic conditions within a particular industry, management also maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, to absorb probable credit losses inherent in the entire loan portfolio. We maintain our allowance for loan losses at a level considered adequate by management to absorb probable loan losses, including collateral impairment, based on our analysis of our portfolio and market environment, using relevant information available to us. Among other considerations in establishing the allowance for loan losses, management considers economic conditions reflected within industry segments, the unemployment rate in our markets, loan segmentation and historical losses that are inherent in the loan portfolio.. As of December 31, 2017, our allowance for loan losses as percentages of total loans and nonperforming loans was 0.63% and 214%, respectively. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance is inherently subjective and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which are subject to material changes. In addition, loans acquired in connection with business combination transactions are measured at fair value, based on management's estimates related to expected prepayments and the amount and timing of undiscounted expected principal, interest and other cash flows. Because fair value measurements incorporate assumptions regarding credit risk, no allowance for loan losses related to the acquired loans is recorded on the acquisition date.. Inaccurate management assumptions, including with respect to the fair value of acquired loans, continuing deterioration of economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. Finally, if actual charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Lack of seasoning of our loan portfolio could increase the risk of future credit defaults.. As a result of our growth over the past three years, a large portion of loans in our loan portfolio and of our lending relationships are of relatively recent origin. In general, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time, a process referred to as \"seasoning.\" As a result, a portfolio of older loans will usually behave more predictably than a newer portfolio. Because a large portion of our portfolio is relatively new, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may not represent the level that may prevail as the portfolio becomes more seasoned. If delinquencies and defaults increase, we may be required to increase our provision for loan losses, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. 19. New lines of business or new products and services may subject the Company to additional risks.. From time to time, the Company may implement or may acquire new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, the Company may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Furthermore, any new line of business and/or new product or service could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the Company's system of internal controls. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We are subject to interest rate risk.. The majority of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and, as a result, we are subject to significant risk from changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect our net interest income as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities. Our earnings depend significantly on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We expect to periodically experience \"gaps\" in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates move contrary to our position, this \"gap\" may work against us, and our earnings may be adversely affected.. When interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly, or to a greater degree than interest-earning assets in a period, an increase in interest rates could reduce net interest income. Similarly, when interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly, or to a greater degree than interest-bearing liabilities, falling interest rates could reduce net interest income. Additionally, an increase in the general level of interest rates may also, among other things, adversely affect our current borrowers' ability to repay variable rate loans, the demand for loans and our ability to originate loans and decrease loan prepayment rates. Conversely, a decrease in the general level of interest rates, among other things, may lead to prepayments on our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the general level of market interest rates may adversely affect our net yield on interest-earning assets, loan origination volume and our overall results.. Although our asset-liability management strategy is designed to control and mitigate exposure to the risks related to changes in the general level of market interest rates, those rates are affected by many factors outside of our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, international disorder, instability in domestic and foreign financial markets and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, particularly the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. Adverse changes in the U.S. monetary policy or in economic conditions could materially and adversely affect us. We may not be able to accurately predict the likelihood, nature and magnitude of those changes or how and to what extent they may affect our business. We also may not be able to adequately prepare for or compensate for the consequences of such changes. Any failure to predict and prepare for changes in interest rates or adjust for the consequences of these changes may adversely affect our earnings and capital levels and overall results.. In addition, as interest rates increase, the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations could be negatively impacted, which would adversely affect our results of operations. These circumstances could not only result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures and charge-offs but also necessitate further increases to the allowance for loan losses. At the same time, the marketability of the property securing a loan may be adversely affected by any reduced demand resulting from higher interest rates. Further, when we place a loan on nonaccrual status, we reverse any accrued but unpaid interest receivable, which decreases interest income, but we continue to have a cost to fund the loan, which is reflected as interest expense, without any interest income to offset the associated funding expense. Thus, an increase in the amount of nonperforming assets would have an adverse impact on net interest income. On the other hand, in a declining interest rate environment, there may be an increase in prepayments on loans as borrowers refinance their loans at lower rates.. 20. By engaging in derivative transactions, we are exposed to credit and market risk, which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.. We manage interest rate risk by utilizing derivative instruments to minimize significant unplanned fluctuations in earnings that are caused by interest rate volatility. Hedging interest rate risk is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring. The effect of this unrealized appreciation or depreciation will generally be offset by income or loss on the derivative instruments that are linked to the hedged assets and liabilities. By engaging in derivative transactions, we are exposed to credit and market risk. If the counterparty fails to perform, credit risk exists to the extent of the fair value gain in the derivative instrument. Market risk exists to the extent that interest rates change in ways that are significantly different from what was expected when we entered into the derivative agreement. The existence of credit and market risk associated with our derivative instruments could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.. Breakdowns in our internal controls and procedures could have an adverse effect on us.. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. See Item 9A, Controls and Procedures for additional information.. Hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions, as well as man-made disasters, could negatively affect our local markets or disrupt our operations, which may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our business is concentrated in southern Louisiana, and in the Baton Rouge, New Orleans, Lafayette, and Hammond metropolitan areas in particular. Southern Louisiana is susceptible to major hurricanes, floods, tropical storms and other natural disasters and adverse weather. These natural disasters can disrupt our operations, cause widespread property damage and severely depress the local economies in which we operate. For example, Hurricane Gustav in 2008 severely impacted our headquarters city of Baton Rouge, with power in many areas of the city not being restored for nearly three weeks after the hurricane. In addition, Hurricane Katrina in August 2005 and the historic flooding of Baton Rouge and surrounding areas in August 2016 had significant impacts in several markets in which we conduct business. The 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico illustrated that man-made disasters can also adversely affect economic activity in the markets in which we operate. Any economic decline as a result of a natural disaster, adverse weather, oil spill or other man-made disaster can reduce the demand for loans and our other products and services.. Such events could also affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans (resulting in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses), impair the value of collateral securing such loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. The occurrence of any such event could, therefore, result in decreased revenue and loan losses that have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. We are subject to a variety of risks in connection with any sale of loans we may conduct.. As discussed elsewhere in this document, we sell certain mortgage loans that we originate as well as pools of our consumer loans. In connection with these sales, we are typically required to make representations and warranties to the purchaser about the loans sold and the procedures under which those loans have been originated. If these representations and warranties are incorrect, we may be required to indemnify the purchaser for its losses or we may be required to repurchase part or all of the affected loans. Borrower fraud may also cause us to have to repurchase loans that we have sold. If we are required to make any indemnity payments or repurchases and do not have a remedy available to us against a solvent counterparty, we may not be able to recover our losses resulting from these indemnity payments and repurchases. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely affected.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to execute our business strategy.. In addition to the liquidity that we require to conduct our day-to-day operations, the Company, on a consolidated basis, and Investar Bank, on a stand-alone basis, must meet certain regulatory capital requirements. With the implementation of certain new regulatory requirements, such as the Basel III accord and the capital requirements enacted under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, financial institutions will be required to establish higher tangible capital requirements. Also, we may need capital to finance acquisitions.. 21. Our ability to raise additional capital depends on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry, market conditions and governmental activities, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, there can be no assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we fail to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected.. Competition in our industry is intense, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability.. We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and have substantially greater resources than we have, including higher total assets and capitalization, a more extensive and established branch network, greater access to capital markets and a broader offering of financial services. Such competitors primarily include national, regional and community banks within the various markets in which we operate. Because of their scale, many of these competitors can be more aggressive than we can on loan and deposit pricing. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. Many of these entities have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures than we do.. Our industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative and regulatory changes as well as continued consolidation. The increased regulatory requirements imposed on financial institutions as well as the economic downturn in the United States in the 2007-2009 time frame, and generally slow recovery thereafter, have already resulted in the consolidation of a number of financial institutions, in addition to acquisitions of failed institutions. We expect additional consolidation to occur. Finally, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. If we are unable to successfully compete, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects will be materially adversely affected.. We may face risks with respect to future acquisitions.. When we attempt to expand our business in Louisiana and other states through mergers and acquisitions, we seek targets that are culturally similar to us, have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through economies of scale or expanded services. In addition to the general risks associated with our growth plans highlighted above, acquiring other banks, businesses or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things:. • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisition and merger targets;. • inaccuracies in the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution;. • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new bank locations, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion;. • our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders;. • the diversion of our management's attention to the negotiation of a transaction;. • the incurrence of an impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and adverse effects on our results of operations;. • entry into new markets where we lack experience; and. • risks associated with integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business in a manner that permits growth opportunities and does not materially disrupt existing customer relationships or result in decreased revenues resulting from any loss of customers.. With respect to the risks particularly associated with the integration of an acquired business, we may encounter a number of difficulties, such as:. • customer loss and revenue loss;. • the loss of key employees;. • the disruption of our operations and business;. • our inability to maintain and increase competitive presence;. • possible inconsistencies in standards, control procedures and policies; and/or. 22. • unexpected problems with costs, operations, personnel, technology and credit.. In addition to the risks posed by the integration process itself, the focus of management's attention and effort on integration may result in a lack of sufficient management attention to other important issues, causing harm to our business. Also, general market and economic conditions or governmental actions affecting the financial industry generally may inhibit our successful integration of an acquired business.. We expect to continue to evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities that are presented to us and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Historically, acquisitions of non-failed financial institutions involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. If the goodwill that we recorded in connection with a business acquisition becomes impaired, it could require charges to earnings, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Goodwill represents the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeded the fair value of net assets we acquired in connection with the purchase of another financial institution. We review goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset might be impaired.. We determine impairment by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Any such adjustments are reflected in our results of operations in the periods in which they become known. As of December 31, 2017, our goodwill totaled $17.1 million, $14.4 million of which was recognized in 2017 in connection with two acquisitions. While we have not recorded any such impairment charges since we initially recorded the goodwill, there can be no assurance that our future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Factors outside our control could result in impairment of or losses with respect to our investment securities.. Under applicable accounting standards, we are required to review our securities portfolio periodically for the presence of other-than-temporary impairment, taking into consideration current market conditions, the extent and nature of changes in fair value, issuer rating changes and trends, volatility of earnings, current analysts' evaluations, our ability and intent to hold securities until a recovery of fair value, as well as other factors. Adverse developments with respect to one or more of the foregoing factors may require us to deem particular securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired, with the credit related portion of the reduction in the value recognized as a charge to the results of operations in the period in which the impairment occurs. Market volatility may make it difficult to value certain securities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors prevailing at that time, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods.. Any of these factors could require us to recognize further impairments in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.. A lack of liquidity could adversely affect our ability to fund operations and meet our obligations as they become due.. Liquidity is essential to our business. Liquidity risk is the potential that we will be unable to meet our obligations as they come due because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding. The primary source of the Bank's funds are customer deposits and loan repayments, while borrowings are a secondary source of liquidity. Our access to deposits and other funding sources in adequate amounts and on acceptable terms is affected by a number of factors, including rates paid by competitors, returns available to customers on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Any decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, pay dividends to our shareholders, or to fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. 23. The Company may be materially and adversely affected by the creditworthiness and liquidity of other financial institutions.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. Our Bank has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose our Bank to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, our Bank's credit risk may be increased when the collateral to which it is entitled cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of its credit or derivative exposure. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We rely on information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party vendors, and our failure to effectively implement new technology or disruption of service could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. Our industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. We believe that improved technology allows us to serve our customers in a more efficient and less costly manner. Our ability to compete successfully to some extent depends on whether we can implement new technologies to provide products and services to our customers while avoiding significant operational challenges that increase our costs or delay full implementation of technology enhancements or new products, especially relative to our peers (many of which have greater resources to devote to technological improvements).. Although new technologies enable us to enhance the products and services we offer our customers, this technology exposes us to certain risks. First, the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunications systems is critical to our business. We outsource many of our major systems, such as data processing, loan servicing and deposit processing. If one of these third-party service providers terminates their relationship with us or fails to provide services to us for any reason or provides such services poorly, our business will be negatively affected. In addition, we may be forced to replace such vendor, which could interrupt our operations and result in a higher cost to us.. Cyber-attacks or other security breaches could adversely affect our operations, net income or reputation.. As part of our banking business, we collect, use and hold sensitive data concerning individuals and businesses with whom we have a banking relationship. Threats to data security, including unauthorized access and cyber-attacks, rapidly emerge and change, exposing us to additional costs for protection or remediation and competing time constraints to secure our data in accordance with customer expectations and statutory and regulatory requirements. The increasing sophistication of cyber-criminals makes it extremely difficult to keep up with new threats and could result in a breach of our data security. Patching and other measures to protect existing systems and servers could be inadequate, especially on systems that are being retired. Controls employed by our information technology department and third-party vendors could prove inadequate. We could also experience a breach by intentional or negligent conduct on the part of our employees or other internal sources or by merchants using our customers' debit and credit cards, software bugs or other technical malfunctions, or other causes. As a result of any of these threats, our customer accounts could become vulnerable to account takeover schemes or cyber-fraud. Our systems and those of our third-party vendors may become vulnerable to damage or disruption due to circumstances beyond our or their control, such as from catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, natural disasters, network failures, and viruses and malware.. A breach of our security that results in unauthorized access to our data could expose us to a disruption or challenges relating to our daily operations as well as to data loss, litigation, damages, fines and penalties, customer notification requirements, significant increases in compliance and insurance costs, and reputational damage, any of which could individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, prospects, and shareholder value.. We have attempted to address these concerns by backing up our systems as well as retaining qualified third-party vendors to test and audit our network. However, there can be no guarantees that our efforts will be successful in avoiding material problems with our information technology and telecommunications systems.. 24. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with our lending activities.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. Also, in the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans or purchase real estate to expand our facilities. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although management has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before the loan is recorded and before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards.. Risks Related to Our Industry. We operate in a highly regulated environment, which could restrain our growth and profitability.. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision that governs almost all aspects of our operations, including, among other things, our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, operations and growth. These laws and regulations, and the supervisory framework that oversees the administration of these laws and regulations, are primarily intended to protect consumers, depositors, the Deposit Insurance Fund and the banking system as a whole, and not shareholders and counterparties. Furthermore, new proposals for legislation continue to be introduced in the U.S. Congress that could further substantially increase regulation of the financial services industry, impose restrictions on our operations and our ability to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including in the areas of compensation, interest rates, financial product offerings and disclosures, and have an effect on bankruptcy proceedings with respect to consumer residential real estate mortgages, among other things.. Our efforts to comply with these additional laws, regulations and standards are likely to result in increased expenses and a diversion of management time and attention. The information under the heading \"Supervision and Regulation\" in Item 1, Business, provides more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we and the Bank operate.. Financial reform legislation enacted by Congress will, among other things, tighten capital standards and result in new laws and regulations that likely will increase our costs of operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010. This law significantly changed the then-existing bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act changes the regulatory structure to which we are subject in numerous ways, including, but not limited to, the following:. • The base for FDIC insurance assessments has been changed to a bank's average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, rather than upon its deposit base, while the FDIC's authority to raise insurance premiums has been expanded.. • The current standard deposit insurance limit has been permanently raised to $250,000.. • The FDIC must raise the ratio of reserves to deposits from 1.15% to 1.35% for deposit insurance purposes by September 30, 2020 and \"offset the effect\" of increased assessments on insured depository institutions with assets of less than $10.0 billion.. • The interchange fees payable on debit card transactions have been limited.. • There are multiple new provisions affecting corporate governance and executive compensation at all publicly traded companies.. • All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on commercial demand deposit accounts have been repealed.. Our management continues to assess the impact on our operations of the Dodd-Frank Act and its regulations, many of which have yet to be proposed or adopted or are to be phased-in over the next several months and years. Because the impact of many of the regulations adopted pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for some time, it is difficult to predict at this time the full impact that Dodd-Frank Act will have on us. However, it is expected that at a minimum our operating and compliance costs will increase, and our interest expense could also increase.. 25. In addition to the foregoing, the Dodd-Frank Act established the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the \"CFPB\") as an independent entity within the Federal Reserve. The CFPB has broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services, including deposit products, residential mortgages, home-equity loans and credit cards, as well as with respect to certain mortgage-related matters, such as steering incentives, determinations as to a borrower's ability to repay and prepayment penalties.. Federal and state regulators periodically examine our business, and we may be required to remediate adverse examination findings.. The Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OFI, periodically examine our business, including our compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination, a federal banking agency were to determine that our financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of any of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that we were in violation of any law or regulation, it may take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin \"unsafe or unsound\" practices, to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in our capital, to restrict our growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against our officers or directors, to remove officers and directors and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate our deposit insurance and place us into receivership or conservatorship. If we become subject to any regulatory actions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects.. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums in the future.. The deposits of Investar Bank are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, subject it to the payment of FDIC deposit insurance assessments. A bank's regular assessments are determined by its risk classification, which is based on its regulatory capital levels and the level of supervisory concern that it poses. The most recent economic recession, insured depository institution failures, general deterioration in banking and economic conditions, and significantly increased losses of the FDIC resulted in a decline in the designated reserve ratio of the FDIC to historical lows. To restore this reserve ratio and bolster its funding position, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on depository institutions and also increased deposit insurance assessment rates. Further increases in assessment rates are possible in the future, especially if there are additional bank failures. Any increase in deposit insurance assessment rates, or any future special assessment, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects.. The short-term and long-term impact of the new regulatory capital rules is uncertain.. In July 2013, each of the U.S. federal banking agencies adopted final rules implementing the recommendations of the International Basel Committee on Bank Supervision to strengthen the regulatory capital requirements of all banking organizations in the United States. The new capital framework, referred to as Basel III, replaces the existing regulatory capital rules for all banks, savings associations and U.S. bank holding companies with greater than $500 million in total assets, and all savings and loan holding companies. The final Basel III rules became effective with respect to the Company and the Bank on January 1, 2015, although the rules will not be fully phased in until January 1, 2019.. The new rules establish a new regulatory capital standard based on Tier 1 common equity, increase the minimum Tier 1 capital risk-based capital ratio, and impose a capital conservation buffer of at least 2.5% of common equity Tier 1 capital above the new minimum regulatory capital ratios, when fully phased in during 2019. Failure to meet the capital conservation buffer will result in certain limitations on dividends, capital repurchases, and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. The rules also change the manner in which a number of our regulatory capital components are calculated and the risk weights applicable to certain asset categories. Although there remains some uncertainty associated with the implementation and regulatory interpretation of the newly adopted standards, we expect that the new rules will generally require us to maintain greater amounts of regulatory capital. The new rules may also limit or restrict how we utilize our capital. A significant increase in our capital requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.. 26. We are subject to numerous laws designed to protect consumers, including the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions.. The Community Reinvestment Act, or CRA, the ECOA, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The Department of Justice and other federal agencies enforce these laws and regulations, but private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution's performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. If an institution's performance under the Community Reinvestment Act or fair lending laws and regulations is found to be deficient, the institution could be subject to damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on mergers and acquisitions activity, restrictions on expansion and restrictions on entering new business lines, among other sanctions. In addition, the FDIC's assessment of our compliance with CRA provisions is taken into account when evaluating any application we submit for, among other things, approval of the acquisition or establishment of a branch or other deposit facility, an office relocation, a merger or the acquisition of another financial institution. Our failure to satisfy our CRA obligations could, at a minimum, result in the denial of such applications and limit our growth.. We face a risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations.. The Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, and other laws and regulations require financial institutions, among other duties, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. The federal Financial Crimes Enforcement Network is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with the individual federal banking regulators, as well as the U.S. Department of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration and Internal Revenue Service. We are also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. Any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Risks Related to Changes in Accounting Standards and Tax Laws. Changes in accounting standards are difficult to predict and can materially impact our financial statements.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or regulatory authorities change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. Such changes are expected to continue and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. Additionally, significant changes to GAAP may require costly technology changes, additional training and personnel, and other expenses that will negatively impact our results of operations.. Changes in tax laws and regulations and differences in interpretation of tax laws and regulations may adversely impact our financial statements.. From time to time, local, state or federal tax authorities change tax laws and regulations, which may result in a decrease or increase to our net deferred tax assets. Additionally, our net deferred tax assets are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the year in which the temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\") was enacted by Congress. The enactment of the TCJA required us to revalue and reassess our net deferred tax assets reflecting the new federal income tax rate. As a result, in December 2017 we recognized a write-down of $0.3 million in our net deferred tax assets, with a corresponding increase to income tax expense. The majority of the provisions of the TCJA will take effect on January 1, 2018. The provisions that impact the Company include the reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, changes to the deductibility of certain meals and entertainment expenses, and changes to the deductibility of executive compensation. The TCJA also accelerates expensing of certain depreciable property for assets placed in service after September 27, 2017 and before January 1, 2023.. Local, state or federal tax authorities may interpret tax laws and regulations differently than we do and challenge tax positions that we have taken on tax returns. This may result in differences in the treatment of revenues, deductions, credits and/or differences in the timing of these items. The differences in treatment may result in payment of additional taxes, interest, penalties, or litigation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our results.. 27. Risks Related to an Investment in our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which may make it difficult for investors to sell their shares at the volume, prices and times desired.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, without limitation:. • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly and annual operating results, financial condition or asset quality;. • changes in general economic or business conditions, both domestically and internationally;. • the effects of, and changes in, trade, monetary and fiscal policies, including the interest rate policies of the Federal Reserve, or in laws and regulations affecting us;. • the number of securities analysts covering us;. • publication of research reports about us, our competitors, or the financial services industry generally, or changes in, or failure to meet, securities analysts' estimates of our financial and operating performance, or lack of research reports by industry analysts or ceasing of coverage;. • changes in market valuations or earnings of companies that investors deemed comparable to us;. • the average daily trading volume of our common stock;. • future issuances of our common stock or other securities;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • perceptions in the marketplace regarding our competitors and/or us;. • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving our competitors or us; and. • other news, announcements or disclosures (whether by us or others) related to us, our competitors, our core market or the financial services industry.. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks have experienced significant fluctuations in recent years. In many cases, these changes have been unrelated to the operating performance and prospects of particular companies. In addition, significant fluctuations in the trading volume in our common stock may cause significant price variations to occur. Increased market volatility may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock, which may make it difficult for investors to sell their shares at the volume, prices and times desired.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. While we retain this status, we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We will continue to be an emerging growth company until the earliest to occur of the following: (1) December 31, 2019; (2) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have more than $1.0 billion in annual revenues; (3) the date on which we have more than $700 million in market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates; or (4) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt over a three-year period. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions, or if we choose to rely on additional exemptions in the future. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. 28. Shares eligible for future sale could adversely affect market prices of our common stock.. Shares of our common stock eligible for future sale, including those that may be issued in any private or public offering of our common stock, as consideration in acquisition transactions, or as incentives under incentive plans, could adversely affect market prices for our common stock. As of December 31, 2017, we had 9,514,926 shares outstanding, 322,917 shares subject to options granted under our incentive plan, and warrants outstanding to purchase 64,425 shares of our common stock. Because our outstanding shares of common stock either were issued in an offering registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\") or have been held for more than one year, such shares are freely tradable, except for shares held by our affiliates (approximately 8% of shares outstanding as of December 31, 2017) and 112,688 shares that represent unvested restricted shares under our incentive plan. Shares issued under our incentive plan will be available for sale into the public market, except for shares held by our affiliates. Shares held by our affiliates may be resold subject to the restrictions in Rule 144 of the Securities Act. In the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock to raise capital for growth or as consideration in acquisition transactions or for other purposes, and such shares may be registered under the Securities Act and freely tradable.. Our dividend policy may change without notice, and our future ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions.. Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive only such cash dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends. We have no obligation to continue paying dividends, and we may change our dividend policy at any time without notice to our shareholders.. Since the Company's primary asset is its stock of Investar Bank, we are dependent upon dividends from the Bank to pay our operating expenses, satisfy our obligations and to pay dividends on the Company's common stock. Accordingly, any declaration and payment of dividends on common stock will substantially depend upon the Bank's earnings and financial condition, liquidity and capital requirements, the general economic and regulatory climate and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Furthermore, consistent with our strategic plans, growth initiatives, capital availability, projected liquidity needs, and other factors, we have made, and will continue to make, capital management decisions and policies that could adversely impact the amount of dividends, if any, paid to our common shareholders.. In addition, there are numerous laws and banking regulations that limit our and Investar Bank's ability to pay dividends. For Investar Bank, federal and state statutes and regulations require, among other things, that the Bank maintain certain levels of capital in order to pay a dividend. Further, state and federal banking authorities have the ability to restrict the payment of dividends by supervisory action. At the holding company level, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy in relation to the organization's overall asset quality, level of current and prospective earnings and level, composition and quality of capital. The guidance requires that a company inform and consult with the Federal Reserve Board prior to declaring and paying a dividend that exceeds earnings for the period for which the dividend is being paid or that could result in an adverse change to its capital structure.. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and By-laws, and certain banking laws applicable to us, could have an anti-takeover effect that decreases our chances of being acquired, even if our acquisition is in our shareholders' best interests.. Certain provisions of our restated articles of incorporation and our by-laws, as amended, and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our organization or conduct a proxy contest, even if those events were perceived by many of our shareholders as beneficial to their interests. These provisions, and the corporate and banking laws and regulations applicable to us:. • enable our board of directors to issue additional shares of authorized, but unissued capital stock. In particular, our board may issue \"blank check\" preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the board;. • enable our board of directors to increase the size of the board and fill the vacancies created by the increase;. • enable our board of directors to amend our by-laws without shareholder approval;. • require advance notice for director nominations and other shareholder proposals; and. • require prior regulatory application and approval of any transaction involving control of our organization.. These provisions may discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, including circumstances in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium over the market price of our shares.. 29. Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock and discourage a takeover.. Our shareholders authorized our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without any further action on the part of our shareholders. The board also has the power, without shareholder approval, to set the terms of any series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or in the event of a dissolution, liquidation or winding up and other terms. In the event that we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of the holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our shareholders may impede a takeover of us and prevent a transaction perceived to be favorable to our shareholders.. Holders of the junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders.. In connection with the acquisitions of FCB and BOJ, we assumed junior subordinated debentures issued by FCB and BOJ and the obligations of related trust preferred securities issued by trusts established by FCB and BOJ. At December 31, 2017, we had trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures with a carrying value of $5.8 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these trusts are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the junior subordinated debentures we issued to the trusts are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock.. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit and is subject to risk of loss.. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this \"Risk Factors\" section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, an investor may lose some or all of his or her investment in our common stock.. 30"
