[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Volatility and disruption in world capital and credit markets, as well as adverse changes in the global economy, can negatively affect Invesco's revenues, operations, financial condition and liquidity.. In recent years, capital and credit markets have experienced substantial volatility. In this regard:. • In the event of extreme circumstances, including economic, political, or business crises, such as a widespread systemic failure or disruptions in the global financial system or failures of firms that have significant obligations as counterparties on financial instruments, we may suffer significant declines in AUM and severe liquidity or valuation problems in managed investment products in which client and company assets are invested, all of which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, liquidity, credit ratings, ability to access capital markets, and ability to retain and attract key employees. Additionally, these factors could impact our ability to realize the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets.. • In addition to the impact of the market volatility on client portfolios, illiquidity and/or volatility of the global fixed income and/or equity markets could negatively affect our ability to manage client inflows and outflows or to timely meet client redemption requests.. • In the U.S., regulations requiring a variable (\"floating\") net asset value (NAV) for institutional prime and tax-free money market funds became effective in October 2016.  Those same regulations also provide for the potential imposition of the assessment of fees in connection with redemptions and/or gates that postpone the time in which redemptions must be processed  in the event those funds' weekly liquid assets fall below certain specified thresholds.   Our government money market funds and retail prime and tax-free money market funds continue to offer a stable NAV of $1.00 per share and are not required to impose fees and gates; however, we do not guarantee such NAV level. Market conditions could lead to severe liquidity issues in money market products, which could lead to the imposition of fees or gates with respect to institutional prime and tax-free money market funds and an affect on the NAVs of government and retail prime and tax-free money market funds. If our institutional prime or tax-free money market funds were to impose redemption fees or gates delaying the payment of redemption proceeds, or the NAV of one of our government or retail prime or tax-free money market funds were to decline below $1.00 per share, such funds could experience significant redemptions in AUM, loss of shareholder confidence and reputational harm.. • More broadly, uncertainties regarding geopolitical developments can produce volatility in global financial markets.  As an example, the U.K. electorate voted in June 2016 to exit the European Union (Brexit), which resulted in market volatility. Although negotiations between the UK and EU regarding Brexit began in June 2017, it is still uncertain what terms may be agreed to in the final outcome and for any transitional period and what impact those terms may have on global markets. This may impact the levels and composition of our AUM and also negatively impact investor sentiment, which could result in reduced or negative flows. In addition, because the U.K. Pound Sterling is the functional currency for certain of our subsidiaries, any weakening of the U.K. Pound Sterling relative to the U.S. Dollar could negatively impact our reported financial results.. We may not adjust our expenses quickly enough to match significant deterioration in global financial markets.. If we are unable to effect appropriate expense reductions in a timely manner in response to declines in our revenues, or if we are otherwise unable to adapt to rapid changes in the global marketplace, our profitability, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.. Our revenues and profitability would be adversely affected by any reduction in AUM as a result of either a decline in market value of such assets or net outflows, which would reduce the investment management fees we earn.. We derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with clients. Under these contracts, the investment management fees paid to us are typically based on the market value of AUM. AUM may decline for various reasons. For any period in which revenues decline, our income and operating margin likely would decline by a greater proportion because a majority of our expenses remain fixed. Factors that could decrease AUM (and therefore revenues) include the following:. Declines in the market value of AUM in client portfolios. These could be caused by price declines in the securities markets generally or by price declines in the market segments in which our AUM are concentrated. Approximately 46% of our total AUM were invested in the equity asset class and approximately 54% were invested in the fixed income asset class and other asset classes at December 31, 2017. Our AUM as of January 31, 2018 were $972.6 billion. We cannot predict whether volatility in the markets will result in substantial or sustained declines in the securities markets generally or result in price declines in market segments in which our AUM are concentrated. Any of the foregoing could negatively impact our revenues, income and operating margin.. 12. Table of Contents. Redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifting among, client portfolios. These could be caused by investors (in response to adverse market conditions or pursuit of other investment opportunities) reducing their investments in client portfolios in general or in the market segments in which Invesco focuses; investors taking profits from their investments; poor investment performance (relative or absolute) of the client portfolios managed by Invesco; and portfolio risk characteristics, which could cause investors to move assets to other investment managers. Poor performance relative to other investment management firms tends to result in decreased sales and increased redemptions with corresponding decreases in our revenues. Failure of our client portfolios to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, the fees we earn vary with the types of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and other alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income, stable return accounts, and certain ETFs. Our revenues may decline if clients continue to shift their investments to lower fee accounts.  In addition, the loss of key personnel or significant investment management professionals could reduce the attractiveness of our products to current and potential clients and adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. Investments in international markets. Investment products that we manage may have significant investments in international markets that are subject to significant risks of loss from political, economic, diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization and asset confiscation. International trading markets, particularly emerging markets and frontier markets, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the developed world.. Our investment advisory agreements are subject to termination or non-renewal, and our fund and other investors may withdraw their assets at any time.. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from investment management agreements. Investment management agreements are generally terminable upon 30 or fewer days' notice. Agreements with U.S. registered funds may be terminated with notice, or terminated in the event of an \"assignment\" (as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended), and must be renewed annually by the disinterested members of each fund's Board of Trustees or Directors, as required by law. In addition, the Boards of Trustees or Directors of certain other fund accounts generally may terminate these investment management agreements upon written notice for any reason. Open-end registered fund and unit trust investors may generally withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. Institutional clients may elect to terminate their relationships with us or reduce the aggregate amount of AUM, generally on short notice. Any termination of or failure to renew a significant number of these agreements, or any other loss of a significant number of our clients or AUM, would adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. Our revenues and profitability from money market and other fixed income assets may be harmed by interest rate, liquidity and credit volatility.. Certain institutional investors using money market products and other short-term duration fixed income products for cash management purposes may shift these investments to direct investments in comparable instruments in order to realize higher yields than those available in money market and other fund products holding lower yielding instruments. These redemptions would reduce managed assets, thereby reducing our revenues. In addition, rising interest rates will tend to reduce the market value of fixed income investments and fixed income derivatives held in various investment portfolios and other products. Thus, increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our revenues from money market portfolios and from other fixed income products. If securities within a money market portfolio default or investor redemptions force the portfolio to realize losses, there could be negative pressure on its NAV. Although money market investments are not guaranteed instruments, the company might decide, under such a scenario, that it is in its best interest to provide support in the form of a support agreement, capital infusion, or other methods to help stabilize a declining NAV. Some of these methods could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Additionally, we have investments in fixed income assets, including collateralized loan obligations and seed money in fixed income funds, the valuation of which could change with changes in interest and default rates.. Performance fees may increase revenue and earnings volatility.. A portion of the company's revenues is derived from performance fees on investment advisory assignments. Performance fees represented $113.3 million, or 2.2%, of total operating revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. In most cases, performance fees are based on relative or absolute investment returns, although in some cases they are based on achieving specific service standards. Generally, the company is entitled to performance fees only if the returns on the related portfolios exceed agreed-upon periodic or cumulative return targets. If these targets are not exceeded, performance fees for that period will not be earned and, if targets are based on cumulative returns, the company may not earn performance fees in future periods. Performance fees will vary from period to period in relation to volatility in investment returns and the timing of revenue recognition, causing our earnings to be more volatile.. 13. Table of Contents. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We, and the client portfolios that we manage, have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, clearing organizations, hedge funds and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us or such client portfolios to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty. While we regularly conduct assessments of such risk posed by counterparties, the risk of non-performance by such parties is subject to sudden swings in the financial and credit markets.. Our financial condition and liquidity would be adversely affected by losses on our seed capital and co-investments.. The company has investments in managed investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including, but not limited to equities, fixed income products, commodities, derivatives, and similar financial instruments, private equity and real estate. Investments in these products are generally made to establish a track record, meet purchase size requirements for trading blocks, or demonstrate economic alignment with other investors in our funds. Adverse market conditions may result in the need to write down the value of these seed capital and co-investments. A reduction in the value of these investments may adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity.  As of December 31, 2017, the company had $891.7 million in seed capital and co-investments, including direct investments in consolidated investment products (CIP).. We operate in an industry that is highly regulated in many countries, and any enforcement action or adverse changes in the laws or regulations governing our business could decrease our revenues and profitability.. As with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. Laws and regulations applied at the national, state or provincial and local level generally grant governmental agencies and industry self-regulatory authorities broad administrative discretion over our activities, including the power to limit or restrict our business activities, conduct examinations, risk assessments, investigations and capital adequacy reviews, and impose remedial programs to address perceived deficiencies. As a result of regulatory oversight, we could face requirements which negatively impact the way in which we conduct business, increase compliance costs and/or impose additional capital requirements.  Our regulators likewise have the authority to commence enforcement actions which could lead to sanctions up to and including the revocation of licenses to operate certain businesses, the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market of any of our business organizations or their key personnel or the imposition of fines and censures on us or our employees. Judgments or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities, or in private litigation against us, could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues.  Any of the effects discussed above could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. A substantial portion of the products and services we offer are regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), the Commodities Future Trading Commission (CFTC), the National Futures Association (NFA) and the Texas Department of Banking in the United States and by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Prudential Regulatory Authority (PRA) in the United Kingdom. Subsidiaries operating in the European Union (EU) are subject to various EU Directives, which generally are implemented by member state national legislation and by EU Regulations. Our operations elsewhere in the world are regulated by similar regulatory organizations.. The regulatory environment in which we operate frequently changes and has seen a significant increase in regulation in recent years. Various changes in laws and regulations have been enacted or otherwise implemented in multiple jurisdictions globally in response to the crisis in the financial markets that began in 2007. Various other proposals remain under consideration by legislators, regulators, other government officials and other public policy commentators. Certain enacted provisions and certain other proposals are potentially far reaching and, depending upon their implementation, could have a material impact on our business. While certain of these provisions appear to address perceived problems in the banking sector, some will or may be applied more broadly and affect other financial services companies, including investment managers. While Invesco does not believe that the these post-crisis developments have or will fundamentally change the investment management industry or cause Invesco to reconsider its basic strategy, certain provisions have required, and other provisions will or may require, us to change or impose new limitations on the manner in which we conduct business; they also have increased regulatory burdens and related compliance costs, and will or may continue to do so. More broadly, we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. To the extent that existing regulations are interpreted or amended or future regulations are adopted in a manner that reduces the sale, or increases the redemptions, of our products and services, or that negatively affects the investment performance of our products or impacts our product mix, our aggregate AUM and our revenues could be adversely affected. In addition, regulatory changes have imposed and may continue to impose additional costs or capital requirements, which could negatively impact our profitability or return on equity.. 14. Table of Contents. In December 2014, then SEC Chair Mary Jo White announced a comprehensive agenda for regulatory change governing the U.S. asset management industry and directed SEC staff to develop a five-part series of new regulations addressing the topics of enhanced portfolio reporting, liquidity risk management, leverage and use of derivatives, adviser wind up and stress testing for funds and advisers.   Rules proposed in 2015 for the first two of these initiatives became final in October 2016. The SEC has also proposed a rule that would impose restrictions on the use of derivatives by registered funds. These new industry rules would or could be expected to add additional reporting and compliance costs and may affect the development of new products and the ability to continue to offer certain strategies through a registered investment company format. In late 2017 the SEC announced an updated regulatory agenda which deferred, de-prioritized or removed certain of these items.  The practical impact of such changes remains uncertain as of the date of this report.. The EU has promulgated or is considering various new or revised directives pertaining to financial services, including investment managers. Such directives are progressing at various stages, and generally have been, are being or will or would be implemented by national legislation in member states. Ongoing changes in the EU's regulatory framework applicable to our business, including changes related to Brexit and any other changes in the composition of the EU's member states, may add further complexity to our global risks and operations.. Developments under regulatory changes will or may include, without limitation:. • Expanded regulation over investment management firms.. • New or increased capital requirements and related regulation.. • Change to the regulation of money market funds in the EU requiring capital buffers.. • Limitations on holdings of certain commodities under proposed regulations of the CFTC which could result in capacity constraints for our products that employ commodities as part of their investment strategy.. • The U.S. Department of Labor adopted regulations in April 2016 that treat as fiduciaries any person who provides investment advice or recommendations to employee benefit plans, plan fiduciaries, plan participants, plan beneficiaries, Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) or IRA owners. The regulations have wide-ranging consequences for Invesco and our U.S. distribution partners and product line. Under the new rules, firms and individuals who recommend financial products to retirement investors are be required to act in the best interest of the investor and, to receive variable compensation, would be required to enter into a contract with clients and produce complex disclosure documents intended to highlight financial conflicts of interest that may arise from the compensation the financial adviser receives from firms like Invesco. These rules went into partial effect in June 2017, but the implementation of the enforcement mechanism has been delayed until July 2019. The SEC is reviewing whether it might promulgate its own version of a fiduciary rule, possibly in conjunction with a re-proposed version of these DOL rules.  Rules promulgated by the SEC in this area could have wider impact than such DOL rules.. • Other changes to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products. In the U.S., the SEC previously has proposed and may repropose significant changes to Rule 12b-1, and may propose other regulatory changes impacting distribution of investment funds. Invesco believes these proposals could increase operational and compliance costs. The EU has implemented the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Directive (AIFMD); implementing legislation in member states has, among other elements, imposed restrictions on the marketing and sale within the EU of private equity and other alternative investment funds sponsored by non-EU managers. Various regulators promulgated or are considering other new disclosure or suitability requirements pertaining to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products, including enhanced standards and requirements pertaining to disclosures made to retail investors at the point of sale.. • In 2015, the FCA undertook a study of the asset management industry and released their final report in June 2017. The  report highlighted a number of specific industry issues and proposed a number of remedies that will take place in a number of stages, including: changes to governance, changes to fee structures to provide clients with increased transparency, improved disclosure in client documentation, improved ability for retail clients to change share classes and changes to pension pooling and investment consultant regulations in the institutional segment.. • The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II (MiFID II) in the EU, effective in January 2018, seeks to promote a single market for wholesale and retail transactions in financial instruments. MiFID II addresses the conduct of business rules for intermediaries providing investment services and the effective, efficient and safe operation of financial markets. Key elements of MiFID II are the extent to which retrocessions may be paid and the use of trading commissions to fund research. The company has announced that, beginning in January 2018, external research costs incurred for MiFID II impacting funds and client accounts in Europe have been absorbed by the company.  We do not expect these costs to be material to the company's financial statements. While the foregoing provisions only impact the EU, client-driven competitive pressures may cause an expansion of these principles to other business regions in which we operate.. • An increased focus on liquidity in funds (including fixed income funds), an example of which is the SEC's rules with respect to liquidity and liquidity risk management applicable to certain types of registered U.S. funds that are scheduled to take effect in 2018.. 15. Table of Contents. • Increased requirements to provide regulators and investors more granular detail regarding our products and services, including the SEC's reporting modernization rule applicable to certain types of registered U.S. funds that are scheduled  to take effect in 2018.. • Regulations pertaining to the privacy of data with respect to clients, employees and business partners.  In particular, effective May 25, 2018, the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) will strengthen data protection rules for individuals within the EU and the export of data outside of the EU.  Compliance with GDPR will require an extensive review of our global data processing systems.  A failure to comply with GDPR could result in fines up to 20 million Euros or 4% of our annual revenues, whichever is higher.. • Increased regulatory scrutiny on operations of private equity funds.. • Requirements pertaining to the trading of securities and other financial instruments, such as swaps and other derivatives, including certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and European Market Infrastructure Regulation; these include  significant reporting requirements, designated trading venues, mandated central clearing arrangements, restrictions on proprietary trading by certain financial institutions, other conduct requirements and potentially new taxes or similar fees.. • Heightened regulatory examinations and inspections, including enforcement reviews, and a more aggressive posture regarding commencing enforcement proceedings resulting in fines, penalties and additional remedial activities to firms and to individuals. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, regulators in the United States and the United Kingdom have taken and can be expected to continue to take a more aggressive posture on bringing enforcement proceedings.. • Enhanced licensing and qualification requirements for key personnel.. • Guidelines regarding the structure and components of fund manager compensation and other additional rules and regulations and disclosure requirements. Certain provisions impose additional disclosure burdens on public companies. Certain proposals could impose requirements for more widespread disclosures of compensation to highly-paid individuals. Depending upon the scope of any such requirements, Invesco could be disadvantaged in retaining key employees vis-à-vis private companies, including hedge fund sponsors.. • Strengthening standards regarding various ethical matters, including compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and anti-money-laundering laws and regulations.. • Regulations promulgated to address perceptions that the asset management industry, or certain of its entities or activities, pose systematic risks to the financial system.. • Regulations promulgated to protect personal data and address risks of fraud, malfeasance or other adverse consequences stemming from cyber attacks.. • Other changes impacting the identity or the organizational structure of regulators with supervisory authority over Invesco.. We cannot at this time predict the full impact of potential legal and regulatory changes or possible enforcement proceedings on  our business. Such changes have imposed, and may continue to impose, new compliance costs and/or capital requirements or impact Invesco in other ways that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.  Moreover, certain legal or regulatory changes could require us to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur other new constraints or costs, including the investment of significant management time and resources in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. In recent years, certain regulatory developments have also added downward pressures regarding fee levels.. To the extent that existing or future regulations affecting the sale of our products and services or our investment strategies cause or contribute to reduced sales or increased redemptions of our products, impair the investment performance of our products or impact our product mix, our AUM and results of operations might be adversely affected.. Distribution of earnings of our subsidiaries may be subject to limitations, including net capital requirements.. Substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. As a result, our cash flow and our ability to fund operations are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of earnings, intercompany loans or other payments by our subsidiaries to us. Any payments to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions and are contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings and business considerations.  For example, certain of our subsidiaries are required under applicable laws and regulations to maintain appropriate levels of capital. Such requirements may change from time-to-time as additional guidance is released based on a variety of factors, including balance sheet composition, assessment of risk exposures and governance and review from regulators. These and other similar provisions of applicable laws and regulations may have the effect of limiting withdrawals of capital, repayment of intercompany loans and payment of dividends by such entities. All of our regulated EU subsidiaries are subject to consolidated capital requirements under EU Directives, including those arising from the EU's Capital Requirements Directive and the U.K.'s Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP), and capital is maintained within this sub-group to satisfy these regulations. We meet these requirements in part by holding cash and cash. 16. Table of Contents. equivalents. This retained cash can be used for general business purposes in the European sub-group in the countries where it is located. Due to the capital restrictions, the ability to transfer cash between certain jurisdictions may be limited. In addition, transfers of cash between international jurisdictions may have adverse tax consequences. As of December 31, 2017, the company's minimum regulatory capital requirement was $761.4 million. Complying with our regulatory commitments may result in an increase in the capital requirements applicable to the European sub-group. As a result of corporate restructuring and regulatory requirements, certain of these EU subsidiaries may be required to limit their dividends to the ultimate parent company, Invesco Ltd.  Our financial condition or liquidity could be adversely affected if certain of our subsidiaries are unable to distribute funds to us.. Civil litigation and governmental investigations and enforcement actions could adversely affect our AUM and future financial results, and increase our costs of doing business.. Invesco and certain related entities have in recent years been subject to various legal proceedings, including civil litigation and governmental investigations and enforcement actions. These actions can arise from normal business operations and/or matters that have been the subject of previous regulatory reviews. Further, as a global company with investment products registered in numerous countries and subject to the jurisdiction of one or more regulators in each country, at any given time, our business operations may be subject to review, investigation or disciplinary action.  For example, in the United States, United Kingdom and other jurisdictions in which the company operates, governmental authorities regularly make inquiries, hold investigations and administer market conduct examinations with respect to the company's compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  Lawsuits or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of these inquiries may in the future be filed against the company and related entities and individuals in the United States, United Kingdom and other jurisdictions in which the company and its affiliates operate.  See Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 18 -- \"Commitments and Contingencies,\" for additional information.  Judgments in civil litigation or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities against us could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. We are exposed to a number of risks arising from our international operations.. We operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the United States. We have offices in numerous countries and sponsor many cross border and local proprietary funds that are domiciled outside the United States and may face difficulties in managing, operating and marketing our international operations. Our international operations expose us to the political and economic consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions and subject us to expropriation risks, expatriation controls and potential adverse tax consequences.. Terrorist activity and the continued threat of terrorism, as well as increased geopolitical unrest could adversely affect the global economy or specific international, regional and domestic markets, which may cause our AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. Terrorist activity and the continued threat of terrorism and acts of civil or international hostility, both within the United States and abroad, as well as ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and declines in the global markets, loss of life, property damage, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Continued geopolitical unrest and terrorist activity that adversely affect the global economy, capital markets or specific international, regional or domestic markets may cause our AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. Our investment management professionals and other key employees are a vital part of our ability to attract and retain clients, and the loss of key individuals or a significant portion of those professionals could result in a reduction of our revenues and profitability.. Retaining highly skilled technical and management personnel is important to our ability to attract and retain our clients. The market for investment management professionals is competitive and has become more so in periods of growth of the investment management industry. The market for investment professionals and other key personnel is at times characterized by the movement of these professionals among different firms. Our policy has been to provide our investment management professionals and other key personnel with a supportive professional working environment and compensation and benefits (including equity and other forms of deferred compensation) that we believe are competitive with other leading investment management firms. However, we may not be successful in retaining our key personnel, and the loss of significant investment professionals or other key personnel could reduce the attractiveness of our products to potential and current clients and could, therefore, adversely affect our revenues and profitability.. 17. Table of Contents. If our reputation is harmed, we could suffer losses in our business, revenues and net income.. Our business depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of clients, regulators and other market participants, and our good reputation is critical to our business. Our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. Regulatory inquiries, investigations or findings of wrongdoing, intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of our products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications, operational failures (including cyber breaches), employee dishonesty or other misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage our reputation, even if they are baseless or eventually satisfactorily addressed.. Our business also requires us continuously to manage actual and potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of other clients or those of Invesco. The willingness of clients to enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be affected if we fail - or appear to fail - to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. In addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions.. We have procedures and controls that are designed to address and manage these risks, but this task can be complex and difficult, and if our procedures and controls fail, our reputation could be damaged. Any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our AUM, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. Failure to establish adequate controls and risk management policies, the circumvention of controls and policies or fraud could have an adverse effect on our reputation and financial position.. We have established a comprehensive risk management process and continue to enhance various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risks to our business; however, we cannot be assured that such controls, procedures, policies and systems will successfully identify and manage internal and external risks to our business. We are subject to the risk that our employees, contractors or other third parties may deliberately seek to circumvent established controls to commit fraud (including through cyber breaches) or act in ways that are inconsistent with our controls, policies and procedures. Persistent or repeated attempts involving conflicts of interests, circumvention of policies and controls or fraud could have a materially adverse impact on our reputation and could lead to costly regulatory inquiries.. Failure to comply with client contractual requirements and/or investment guidelines could result in damage awards against us and loss of revenues due to client terminations.. Many of the investment management agreements under which we manage assets or provide products or services specify investment guidelines or requirements that we are required to observe in the provision of our services.  Laws and regulations impose similar requirements for certain client portfolios (such as registered funds). A failure to comply with these guidelines or requirements could result in damage to our reputation or in our clients seeking to recover losses, withdrawing their assets or terminating their contracts.   Regulators likewise may commence enforcement actions for violations of such requirements.  Any such effects could cause our revenues and profitability to decline. We maintain various compliance procedures and other controls to prevent, detect and correct such errors. When an error is detected, a payment will typically be made into the applicable client account to correct it. Significant errors for which we are responsible could impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. The failure or negative performance of products offered by competitors may have a negative impact on similar Invesco products irrespective of our performance.. Many competitors offer similar products to those offered by us and the failure or negative performance of competitors' products could lead to a loss of confidence in similar Invesco products, irrespective of the performance of such products. Any loss of confidence in a product type could lead to withdrawals, redemptions and liquidity issues in such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. 18. Table of Contents. Competitive pressures may force us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, increase commissions paid to our financial intermediaries or provide more support to those intermediaries or could limit or reduce sales of our products, all of which could reduce our profitability.. The investment management business is highly competitive, and we compete based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, stability and continuity of client and financial intermediary relationships, quality of service, level of fees charged for services and the level of compensation paid and distribution support offered to financial intermediaries. We continue to face market pressures regarding fee levels in certain products. Investors remain attracted to lower fee passive products, which have gained and may continue to gain share at the expense of active products.. We face strong competition in every market in which we operate. Our competitors include a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. Some of these institutions have greater capital and other resources, and offer more comprehensive lines of products and services, than we do. Our competitors seek to expand their market share in many of the products and services we offer. If these competitors are successful, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry by new investment management firms, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various distribution channels around the world have also resulted in increased competition.. In recent years there have been several instances of industry consolidation, both in the area of distributors and manufacturers of investment products. Further consolidation may occur in these areas in the future. The increasing size and market influence of certain distributors of our products and of certain direct competitors may have a negative impact on our ability to compete at the same levels of profitability in the future, should we find ourselves unable to maintain relevance in the markets in which we compete.. We may engage in strategic transactions that could create risks.. We regularly review, and from time-to-time have discussions with and engage in, potential strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be material. There can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to pursue such transactions, be successful in negotiating the required agreements, or successfully close transactions after signing such agreements.. Acquisitions also pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or employees or could underperform relative to expectations. We could also experience financial or other setbacks if pending transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to closing or integration. Following the completion of an acquisition, we may have to rely on the seller to provide administrative and other support, including financial reporting and internal controls, to the acquired business for a period of time. There can be no assurance that such sellers will do so in a manner that is acceptable to us.. We may be unable to develop new products and services and the development of new products and services may expose us to additional costs or operational risk.. Our financial performance depends, in part, on the company's ability to develop, market and manage new investment products and services. The development and introduction of new products and services requires continued innovative efforts on our part and may require significant time and resources as well as ongoing support and investment. Substantial risk and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of new products and services, including the implementation of new and appropriate operational controls and procedures, shifting client and market preferences, the introduction of competing products or services and compliance with regulatory requirements.  New products often must be in the market place for three or more years in order to generate track records required to attract significant AUM inflows.   A failure to continue to innovate to introduce successful new products and services or to manage effectively the risks associated with such products and services may impact our market share relevance and may cause our AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. 19. Table of Contents. Our ability to maintain our credit ratings and to access the capital markets in a timely manner should we seek to do so depends on a number of factors.. Our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. We have received credit ratings of A2/Stable, A/Negative and A-/Stable from Moody's Investor Services (\"Moody's\"), Standard & Poor's Ratings Service (\"S&P\"), and Fitch Ratings (\"Fitch\"), respectively, as of the date hereof.  We believe that rating agency concerns include but are not limited to the fact that our revenues are exposed to equity market volatility and the potential impact from regulatory changes to the industry. Additionally, the rating agencies could decide to downgrade the entire investment management industry, based on their perspective of future growth and solvency. Material deterioration of these factors, and others defined by each rating agency, could result in downgrades to our credit ratings, thereby limiting our ability to generate additional financing. Management believes that solid investment grade ratings are an important factor in winning and maintaining institutional business and strives to manage the company to maintain such ratings.. Our credit facility borrowing rates are tied to our credit ratings. A reduction in our long-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs, could limit our access to the capital markets and may result in outflows thereby reducing AUM and revenues. Volatility in global finance markets may also affect our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so. If we are unable to access capital markets in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected.. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding total debt of $2,075.8 million, excluding debt of CIP, and total equity attributable to Invesco Ltd. of $8,696.1 million. The amount of indebtedness we carry could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes, increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry and place us at a disadvantage in relation to our competitors. Any or all of the above factors could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations.  The company expects approximately 80% of the $1.2 billion purchase price for the upcoming Guggenheim Investments' ETF acquisition will be funded through the use of the company's existing credit facility, increasing our outstanding debt in 2018. The company plans to repay the amount borrowed over the course of 2018.. Our credit facility imposes restrictions on our ability to conduct business and, if amounts borrowed under it were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient assets or liquidity to repay such amounts in full.. Our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, including maximum debt-to-earnings and minimum interest coverage ratios. The credit facility also contains customary affirmative operating covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, restrict certain of our subsidiaries' ability to incur debt and restrict our ability to transfer assets, merge, make loans and other investments and create liens. The breach of any covenant (either due to our actions or due to a significant and prolonged market-driven decline in our operating results) would result in a default under the credit facility. In the event of any such default, lenders that are party to the credit facility could refuse to make further extensions of credit to us and require all amounts borrowed under the credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. If any indebtedness under the credit facility were subject to accelerated repayment repayment and if we had at that time a significant amount of outstanding debt under the credit facility, we might not have sufficient liquid assets to repay such indebtedness in full.. 20. Table of Contents. Changes in the distribution channels on which we depend could reduce our net revenues and hinder our growth.. We sell substantially all of our retail investment products through a variety of third party financial intermediaries, including major wire houses, fund supermarkets, regional broker-dealers, insurance companies, banks and financial planners in North America, and independent brokers and financial advisors, banks and supermarket platforms in Europe and Asia. No single one of these intermediaries is material to our business. Increasing competition for these distribution channels could nevertheless cause our distribution costs to rise, which would lower our net revenues. Following the financial crisis, there has been consolidation of banks and broker-dealers, particularly in the U.S., and a limited amount of migration of brokers and financial advisors away from major banks to independent firms focused largely on providing advice. If these changes continue, our distribution costs could increase as a percentage of our revenues generated. Additionally, particularly outside of the U.S., certain of the third party intermediaries upon whom we rely to distribute our investment products also sell their own competing proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our products. Investors, particularly in the institutional market, rely on external consultants and other third parties for advice on the choice of investment manager. These consultants and third parties tend to exert a significant degree of influence over their clients' choices, and they may favor a competitor of Invesco as better meeting their particular clients' needs. There is no assurance that our investment products will be among their recommended choices in the future. Similarly, particularly in the United States, certain distributors have substantially reduced the number of investment funds they make available to their customers. If a material portion of our distributors were to cease operations or substantially narrow their product offerings, it could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Any failure to maintain strong business relationships with these distribution sources and the consultant community would impair our ability to sell our products, which in turn could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability.. Our business is vulnerable to deficiencies and failures in support systems and customer service functions that could lead to breaches and errors or reputational harm, resulting in loss of customers or claims against us or our subsidiaries.. In addition to investment management, our services include fund administration, sales, distribution, marketing, shareholder servicing and trust, custody and other fiduciary services. In order to be competitive and comply with our agreements, we must properly perform our fund and portfolio administration and related responsibilities, including portfolio recordkeeping and accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations and required distributions to fund shareholders. The ability to consistently and reliably obtain accurate securities pricing information, process client portfolio and fund shareholder transactions and provide reports and other customer service to fund shareholders and clients in accounts managed by us is essential to our continuing success. Certain types of securities may experience liquidity constraints that would require increased use of fair value pricing, which is dependent on certain subjective judgments that have the potential to be challenged. Any delays or inaccuracies in obtaining pricing information, processing such transactions or such reports or other breaches and errors and any inadequacies in other customer service, could result in reimbursement obligations or other liabilities, or alienate customers and potentially give rise to claims against us. Our customer service capability, as well as our ability to obtain prompt and accurate securities pricing information and to process transactions and reports, is highly dependent on communications and information systems and on third-party service providers.  Certain of these processes involve a degree of manual input, and thus problems could occur from time-to-time due to human error.  Our failure to properly perform and monitor our operations or our otherwise suffering deficiencies and failures in these systems or service functions could result in material financial loss or costs, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal claims and liability, which in turn could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability.. The failure of one of our third party service providers or other key vendors to fulfill its obligations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation or business, which may cause our AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. We depend on third party service providers and other key vendors for various fund administration, accounting, custody, risk analytics, market data, market indices and transfer agent roles, and other distribution and operational needs. If our third party service providers or other key vendors fail to fulfill their obligations to us, it could lead to operational and regulatory problems, including with respect to certain of our products, which could result in losses, enforcement actions, or reputational harm and may cause our AUM, revenue and earnings to decline.. We depend on information technology, and any failures of or damage to, attack on or unauthorized access to our information technology systems or facilities, or those of third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could result in significant limits on our ability to conduct our operations and activities, costs and reputational damage.. We are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party information and security technology, software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. We are also dependent on the effectiveness of our information and cyber security infrastructure, policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them. We use our technology to, among other things, manage and trade. 21. Table of Contents. portfolio investments, support our other operations, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions, protect the privacy of clients', employees' and business partners' data and provide reports and other customer services to the clients of the funds we manage. Any inaccuracies, delays, systems failures or security breaches in these and other processes could disrupt our business operations, subject us to client, employee or business partner dissatisfaction and losses and/or subject us to reputational harm.. Our computer, communications, data processing, networks, backup, business continuity or other operating, information or technology systems and facilities, including those that we outsource to other providers, may fail to operate properly or become disabled, overloaded or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control.. In recent years, several financial services firms suffered successful cyber-attacks launched both domestically and from abroad, resulting in the disruption of services to clients, loss or misappropriation of confidential data and reputational harm.  Our status as a global financial institution and the nature of our client base may enhance the risk that we are targeted by such cyber-threats. Although we take protective measures, including measures to effectively secure information through system security technology, and continually monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption, our technology systems may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an external hacker attack by one or more cyber criminals or an authorized employee or vendor causing us to release confidential information inadvertently or through malfeasance, or lose temporarily or permanently data or applications or systems, which could materially harm our operations and reputation. The third parties with which we do business or which facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries and technology infrastructure and service providers, are also susceptible to the foregoing risks (including regarding the third parties with which they are similarly interconnected or on which they otherwise rely), and our or their business operations and activities may therefore be adversely affected, perhaps materially, by failures, terminations, errors or malfeasance by, or attacks or constraints on, one or more financial, technology or infrastructure institutions or intermediaries with whom we or they are interconnected or conduct business.. Breach of our technology systems could damage our reputation and could result in the unauthorized disclosure or modification or loss of sensitive or confidential information (including client data); unauthorized disclosure modification or loss of proprietary information relating to our business; inability to process client or company transactions and processes; breach and termination of client contracts; liability for stolen assets, information or identity; remediation costs to repair damage caused by the breach, including damage to systems and recovery of lost data; additional security costs to mitigate against future incidents; regulatory actions (including fines and penalties, which could be material) and litigation costs resulting from the incident. Such consequences could result in material financial loss and have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability.. If we are unable to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity problem, we could suffer material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability.. If we were to experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. In such an event, we believe our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems should mitigate adverse impacts. Nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational problems with regard to particular areas of our operations. Further, as we strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations such as India, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. Although we seek to assess regularly and improve our existing business continuity plans, a major disaster, or one that affected certain important operating areas, or our inability to recover successfully should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability.. Since many of our subsidiary operations are located outside of the United States and have functional currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, changes in the exchange rates to the U.S. Dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next.. The largest component of our net assets, revenues and expenses, as well as our AUM, is presently denominated in U.S. dollars. However, we have a large number of subsidiaries outside of the United States whose functional currencies are not the U.S. Dollar. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rates to the U.S. Dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. Consequently, significant strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to the U.K. Pound Sterling, Euro, or Canadian Dollar, among other currencies, could have a material negative impact on our reported financial results.. 22. Table of Contents. The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet could become impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. We have goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to annual impairment reviews. We also have definite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to impairment testing if indicators of impairment are identified. Goodwill and intangible assets totaled $6,590.7 million and $1,558.7 million, respectively, at December 31, 2017. We may not realize the value of such assets. We perform impairment reviews of the book values of these assets on an annual basis or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. A variety of factors could cause such book values to become impaired. Should valuations be deemed to be impaired, a write-down of the related assets would occur, adversely affecting our results of operations for the period. See Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Goodwill\" and \"- Intangibles,\" for additional details of our impairment analysis process.. Legislative and other measures that may be taken by U.S. and/or other governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Under current laws, as the company is domiciled and tax resident in Bermuda, taxation in other jurisdictions is dependent upon the types and the extent of the activities of the company undertaken in those jurisdictions. There is a risk that changes in either the types of activities undertaken by the company or changes in tax rules relating to tax residency could subject the company and its shareholders to additional taxation.. On October 21, 2016, the United States Treasury and the IRS published final and temporary regulations under section 385 of the Internal Revenue Code (\"385 Regulations\") that target the inbound financing of a foreign-parented multinational group's U.S. subsidiaries. There are no immediate impacts to the company's financial position as a result of the application of the 385 Regulations, in particular, as there are broad exceptions for intercompany loans that are short-term in form and substance (cash pooling, short term advances, short-term ordinary course of business payables, etc.). On a go forward basis, the 385 Regulations could limit our ability to efficiently finance or otherwise choose between debt and equity transactions with our U.S. subsidiaries.. The international tax environment continues to change as a result of both coordinated actions by governments and unilateral measures designed by individual countries, both intended to tackle concerns over base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) and perceived international tax avoidance techniques. The recommendations of the BEPS Project led by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) are involved in much of the coordinated activity. As with any global implementation process there are concerns about potential lack of consistency in the local application of these items. Some of the recommendations are complex while others contain optional routes, thereby increasing the likelihood of only partial or limited implementation.  Although the timing and methods of implementation vary, several jurisdictions have enacted legislation that is aligned with, and in some cases exceeds the scope of, the OECD's recommendations. This could lead to increased uncertainty with tax positions as well as increase the potential for double taxation.. We continually assess the impact of various U.S. federal, state and foreign legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the United States and foreign countries, which could result in a material increase in our U.S. federal, state or foreign taxes. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. However, if such proposals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing tax treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on the company, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our future results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the 2017 Tax Act) enacted on December 22, 2017, significantly reformed the taxation of business entities. The new legislation, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, and puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system. We continue to examine the impact of this new legislation and the ultimate outcome of the new legislation on our business and financial condition.  See also Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - in Note 15, \"Taxation,\" for further details and additional discussion on estimated amounts recorded as of December 31, 2017 for the 2017 Tax Act.. 23. Table of Contents. Examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods.. The company and its subsidiaries are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions and are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes (and, in certain cases, interest, fines or penalties). We recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. We adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities.. The European Commission (\"EC\") continues to investigate certain transfer pricing rulings given by Member States to particular taxpayers that it believes may have violated the EU restriction on State aid. The investigation was triggered by the OECD / BEPS action plan as well as the EU's own agenda to tackle aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance. There is considerable uncertainty with the approach being taken, including retroactive application (10 year period), conflicts with OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines and implications to bilateral tax treaties. While the company does not believe it has received State aid and is not a party to any investigation, due to the uncertainty of the process and retroactive nature of the assessments any potential future findings could have a materially adverse impact on the company, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our future results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to shareholders.. Our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than shareholders of a company incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. As a Bermuda company, we are governed by the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda (Companies Act). The Companies Act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to United States corporations and shareholders, including provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors.. Under Bermuda law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company, and may only do so in limited circumstances described in the following paragraph. However, directors and officers may owe duties to a company's creditors in cases of impending insolvency. Directors and officers of a Bermuda company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company and must exercise the care and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. Directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests may conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any material contract or proposed material contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries. If a director or officer of a Bermuda company is found to have breached such director's duties to that company, the director may be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty.. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of Bermuda. However, the Bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow English case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence an action in a company's name against the directors and officers to remedy a wrong done to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the company's corporate power or is illegal or would result in the violation of the company's memorandum of association or Bye-Laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of shareholders than actually approved it. Under our Second Amended and Restated Bye-Laws (Bye-Laws), each of our shareholders agrees to waive any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, other than those involving fraud or dishonesty, against the company or any of our officers, directors or employees. The waiver applies to any action taken by a director, officer or employee, or the failure of such person to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the director, officer or employee. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our directors, officers and employees unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty.. Our Bye-Laws also provide for indemnification of our directors and officers in respect of any loss arising or liability attaching to them in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to the company other than in respect of his or her own fraud or dishonesty, which is the maximum extent of indemnification permitted under the Companies Act.. 24. Table of Contents. Because we are incorporated in Bermuda, it may be difficult for shareholders to serve process or enforce judgments against us or our directors and officers.. The company is organized under the laws of Bermuda. In addition, certain of our officers and directors reside in countries outside the United States. A substantial portion of the company's assets and the assets of these officers and directors are or may be located outside the United States. Investors may have difficulty effecting service of process within the United States on our directors and officers who reside outside the United States or recovering against the company or these directors and officers on judgments of U.S. courts based on civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, even though the company has appointed an agent in the United States to receive service of process.. Further, it may not be possible in Bermuda or in countries other than the United States where the company has assets to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against the company based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against the company or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or would hear actions against the company or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised by our legal advisors in Bermuda that the United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Some remedies available under the laws of the United States or the states therein, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Bermuda courts because they may be found to be contrary to Bermuda public policy. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Bermuda. Similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in other countries other than the United States.. We have anti-takeover provisions in our Bye-Laws that may discourage a change of control.. Our Bye-Laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us or to obtain majority representation on our Board of Directors without the consent of our Board. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares under such circumstances.. Specifically, our Bye-Laws contain the following provisions that may impede or delay an unsolicited takeover of the company:. • we are prohibited from engaging, under certain circumstances, in a business combination (as defined in our Bye-Laws) with any interested shareholder (as defined in our Bye-Laws) for three years following the date that the shareholder became an interested shareholder;. • our Board of Directors, without further shareholder action, is permitted by our Bye-Laws to issue preference shares, in one or more series, and determine by resolution any designations, preferences, qualifications, privileges, limitations, restrictions, or special or relative rights of an additional series. The rights of preferred shareholders may supersede the rights of common shareholders;. • shareholders may only remove directors for \"cause\" (defined in our Bye-laws to mean willful misconduct or gross negligence which is materially injurious to the company, fraud or embezzlement, or a conviction of, or a plea of \"guilty\" or \"no contest\" to, a felony);. • our Board of Directors is authorized to expand its size and fill vacancies; and. • shareholders cannot act by written consent unless the consent is unanimous.. Our independent registered public accounting firm has advised us that it identified an issue related to an independence requirement contained in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 regulations regarding auditor independence.. In May 2016, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) advised the company that it had identified an issue related to its independence under Rule 2-01(c)(1)(ii)(A) of Regulation S-X (Loan Rule) with respect to certain of PwC's lenders who own certain Invesco registered funds managed by certain of our wholly-owned investment adviser subsidiaries. The company and such funds are required to have their financial statements audited by a public accounting firm that qualifies as independent under various SEC rules. As discussed below, the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC Staff) has issued a \"no-action\" letter to another mutual fund complex under substantially similar circumstances and subsequently issued a letter extending the relief provided by the such letter indefinitely.. The Loan Rule prohibits accounting firms, such as PwC, from having certain financial relationships with their audit clients and affiliated entities. Specifically, the Loan Rule provides, in relevant part, that an accounting firm is not independent if it receives a loan from a lender that is a \"record or beneficial owner of more than ten percent of the audit client's equity securities.\" For purposes of the Loan Rule, audit clients include all of the registered investment companies advised by affiliates of the company, as well as the company and its other subsidiaries (collectively, the Invesco Funds Complex) for which PwC also serves as. 25. Table of Contents. independent auditor. PwC informed the company it has relationships with lenders who hold, as record owner, more than ten percent of the shares of certain funds within the Invesco Fund Complex. These relationships call into question PwC's independence under the Loan Rule with respect to those funds, as well as all other funds in the Invesco Fund Complex and the company and its subsidiaries.. In June 2016, the SEC Staff issued a \"no-action\" letter to another mutual fund complex (see Fidelity Management & Research Company et al., No-Action Letter) related to the audit independence issue described above. In that letter, the SEC Staff confirmed that it would not recommend enforcement action against an audit client that relied on audit services performed by an audit firm that was not in compliance with the Loan Rule in certain specified circumstances. The circumstances described in the no-action letter are substantially similar to the circumstances that called into question PwC's independence under the Loan Rule with respect to the Invesco Funds Complex, including the company. The company therefore believes that the Invesco Funds Complex can rely on the letter to continue to issue financial statements that are audited by PwC and we intend to do so. In September 2017, the SEC Staff issued a letter extending the relief in the June 2016 no-action letter referenced above.  The extension makes no changes to the circumstances in the original no-action letter and does not include a new expiration date, providing indefinite relief.. If in the future the independence of PwC is called into question under the Loan Rule by circumstances that are not addressed in the SEC Staff's no-action letter, the company will need to take other action and incur additional costs in order for the company's filings with the SEC containing financial statements to be deemed compliant with applicable securities laws. Such action may include obtaining the review and audit of the financial statements filed by the company by another independent registered public accounting firm. In addition, under such circumstances, the company's eligibility to issue securities under its existing registration statements on Form S-3 and Forms S-8 may be impacted and certain financial reporting covenants with our lenders may be impacted. There could be other burdensome requirements or impacts on other entities (including registered funds) included in the Invesco Funds Complex. Such consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Insurance May Not Be Available at a Reasonable Cost to Protect Us from Liability.. We face the inherent risk of liability related to claims from clients, third-party vendors or others, actions taken by regulatory agencies and costs and losses associated with cyber incidents. To help protect against these risks, we purchase insurance in amounts, and against potential liabilities, that we consider appropriate, where such insurance is available at prices we deem reasonable. There can be no assurance, however, that a claim or claims will be covered by insurance or, if covered, will not exceed coverage limits, or that an insurer will meet its obligations regarding coverage, or that coverage will continue to be available on a cost effective basis. Insurance costs are impacted by market conditions and the risk profile of the insured, and may increase significantly over relatively short periods. In addition, certain insurance coverage may not be available or may only be available at prohibitive costs. Renewals of insurance policies may expose us to additional costs through higher premiums or the assumption of higher deductibles or co-insurance liability."
