[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Properties and Operations. We face certain risks related to our ownership of apartment communities and operation of our business.  Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to IRET's shareholders and unitholders.  You should carefully consider the following risks in evaluating our properties, business, and operations.  Our business, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations, value of our real estate assets and/or the value of an investment in our stock or units are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those set forth below, any of which could cause our actual operating results to vary materially from our recent results or from our anticipated future results.. Our financial performance is subject to risks associated with the real estate industry and ownership of apartment communities.  Our financial performance risks include, but are not limited to, the following:. • downturns in national, regional, and local economic conditions (particularly increases in unemployment);. • competition from other apartment communities;. • local real estate market conditions, including an oversupply of apartments or other housing, or a reduction in demand for apartment communities;. • the attractiveness of our apartment communities to tenants as well as tenants' perceptions of the safety, convenience, and attractiveness of our apartment communities and the areas in which they are located;. • changes in interest rates and availability of attractive financing that might make other housing options, like home ownership, more attractive;. • our ability to collect rents from our tenants;. • vacancies, changes in rental rates, and the periodic need to repair, renovate, and redevelop our apartment communities;. • increases in operating costs, including real estate taxes, state and local taxes, insurance expenses, utilities, and security costs, many of which are not reduced significantly when circumstances cause a reduction in revenues from a property;. • our ability to provide adequate maintenance and insurance on our apartment communities; and. • changes in tax laws and other government regulations that could affect the value of REITs generally or our business in particular.. 6. Table of Contents. Our property acquisition activities may not produce the cash flows expected and could subject us to various risks that could adversely affect our operating results. We have acquired and intend to continue to pursue the acquisition of apartment communities, but the success of our acquisition activities is subject to numerous risks, including the following:. • acquisition agreements are subject to customary closing conditions, including completion of due diligence investigations, and we may be unable to complete an acquisition after making a non-refundable deposit and incurring other acquisition-related costs;. • expected occupancy, rental rates, and operating expenses of acquired apartment communities may differ from the actual results, or from those of our existing apartment communities;. • we may be unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on favorable terms, or at all;. • competition for these properties could cause us to pay higher prices for new properties or prevent us from purchasing a desired property at all;. • we may be subject to unknown liabilities from acquired properties, with either no recourse or limited recourse against prior owners or other third parties with respect to these unknown liabilities; and. • we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions into our existing operations.. We may be unable to acquire or develop properties and expand our operations into new or existing markets successfully. We intend to explore acquisitions or developments of properties in new and existing geographic markets. Acquiring or developing new properties and expanding into new markets introduces several risks, including but not limited to the following:. • we may not be successful in identifying suitable properties or other assets that meet our acquisition or development criteria or in consummating acquisitions or developments on satisfactory terms, or at all;. • we may be unable to maintain consistent standards, controls, policies, and procedures, or realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions within the anticipated timeframe, or at all;. • acquisitions and divestitures could divert our attention from our existing properties and could cause us to lose key employees or be unable to attract highly qualified new employees;. • unfamiliarity with the dynamics and prevailing conditions of any new geographic markets could adversely affect our ability to successfully expand into or operate within those markets or cause us to become more dependent on third parties in new markets due to our inability to directly and efficiently manage and otherwise monitor new properties in new markets;. • we may make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of acquired properties, including expected occupancy, rental rates, and cash flows, that prove to be inaccurate; and. • we may improperly estimate the costs of repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property.. Risks related to properties under development, redevelopment or newly developed properties may adversely affect our financial performance. We may be unable to obtain, or may suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could lead to increased costs or abandonment of projects. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all, and we may not be able to complete lease-up of a property on schedule. The resulting time required for development, redevelopment, and lease-up means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns.. Competition may negatively impact our earnings. We compete with many kinds of institutions, including other REITs, private partnerships, individuals, pension funds, and banks in attracting tenants and finding investment opportunities. Many of these institutions are active in the markets in which we invest and have greater financial and other resources than we do. Our apartment communities compete directly with other multifamily apartment communities, single-family homes, condominiums, and other short-term rentals.. Short-term leases could expose us to the effects of declining market rents.  Our apartment leases are generally for a term of 18 months or less.  Because these leases generally allow residents to leave at the expiration of the lease term without penalty, our rental revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms.. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and various factors limit our ability to dispose of assets, we may not be able to sell properties when appropriate.  We may have limited ability to change our portfolio of properties quickly in response to our strategic plan and changes in economic or other conditions, and the prohibitions under the federal income tax laws on REITs holding property for sale and related regulations may affect our ability to sell properties. Under certain circumstances, the Code. 7. Table of Contents. imposes penalties on a REIT that sells property held for less than two years and limits the number of properties it can sell in a given year. Our ability to dispose of assets also may be limited by constraints on our ability to use disposition proceeds to make acquisitions on financially attractive terms and the requirement that we take additional impairment charges on certain assets. More specifically, we are required to distribute or pay tax on all capital gains generated from the sale of assets. Some of our properties were acquired using limited partnership units of IRET Properties, our operating partnership, and are subject to certain agreements that restrict our ability to sell these properties in transactions that would create current taxable income to the former owners. As a result, we are motivated to structure the sale of these assets as tax-free exchanges, the requirements of which are technical and may be difficult to achieve.. Our real estate assets may be subject to impairment charges. We periodically evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of our real estate assets under United States generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\").  Factors considered in evaluating impairment of our real estate assets held for investment include significant declines in net operating income, recurring net operating losses, and other significant adverse changes in general market conditions that are considered permanent in nature. Generally, a real estate asset held for investment is not considered impaired if the estimated undiscounted future cash flows of the asset over its estimated holding period are in excess of the asset's net book value at the balance sheet date. Assumptions used to estimate annual and residual cash flow and the estimated holding period of these assets require the judgment of management.. Inability to manage growth effectively may adversely affect our operating results. We have experienced significant growth at various times in the past, principally through the acquisition of additional real estate properties. Effective management of rapid growth presents challenges, including:. • the need to expand our management team and staff;. • the need to enhance internal operating systems and controls; and. • the ability to consistently achieve targeted returns on individual properties.. We may not be able to maintain similar rates of growth in the future or manage our growth effectively.. Adverse changes in taxes and other laws may affect our liabilities relating to our properties and operations. Increases in real estate taxes and service and transfer taxes may adversely affect our cash available for distributions and our ability to pay amounts due on our debt. Similarly, changes in laws that increase the potential liability for environmental conditions or that affect development, construction, and safety requirements may result in significant unanticipated costs. Future enactment of rent control or rent stabilization laws or other laws regulating apartment communities may reduce rental revenues or increase operating costs.. We may be unable to retain or attract qualified management. We are dependent upon our senior officers for essentially all aspects of our business operations. Our senior officers have experience in the real estate industry, and the loss of them would likely have a material adverse effect on our operations and could adversely impact our relationships with lenders and industry personnel. We do not have employment contracts with any of our senior officers. As a result, any senior officer may terminate his or her relationship with us at any time, without providing advance notice. If we fail to effectively manage a transition to new personnel, or if we fail to attract and retain qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, it could adversely affect our business.. Risks related to joint ventures may adversely affect our financial performance and results of operations. We have entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities. Joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including the possibility that:. • our partner might become insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due, or otherwise fail to meet its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments;. • our partner might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent with our interests or goals;. • we could become engaged in a dispute with our partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such disputes; or. • our partner may be in a position to take action or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests, which could restrict our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party.. In some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner's interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Our ability to acquire our partner's interest may be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity, or other capital resources. In such event, we may be forced to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. Joint ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners, which could limit our ability to control the. 8. Table of Contents. properties in the joint ventures. Even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition, or financing of a property.. We face risks associated with security breaches through cyber-attacks, cyber intrusions, or otherwise, which could pose a risk to our systems, networks, and services. We face risks associated with security breaches or disruptions, whether through cyber-attacks or cyber intrusions over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to emails, or persons inside our organization. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attacks or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity, and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions around the world have increased. In the normal course of business, we and our service providers (including service providers engaged in providing web hosting, property management, leasing, accounting and/or payroll software/services) collect and retain certain personal information provided by our tenants, employees, and vendors. We also rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions and manage our business. While we and our service providers employ a variety of data security measures to protect confidential information on our systems and periodically review and improve our data security measures, we cannot provide assurance that we or our service providers will be able to prevent unauthorized access to this personal information, that our efforts to maintain the security and integrity of the information that we and our service providers collect will be effective, or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. Even the most well-protected information, networks, systems, and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. In some cases, these breaches are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. Accordingly, we and our service providers may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, thereby making it impossible to entirely mitigate this risk. A security breach or other significant disruption involving computer networks and related systems could cause substantial costs and other negative measures, including litigation, remediation costs, costs to deploy additional protection strategies, compromising of confidential information, and reputational damage adversely affecting investor confidence.. Complying with laws benefiting disabled persons or other safety regulations and requirements may affect our costs and investment strategies. Federal, state, and local laws and regulations designed to improve disabled persons' access to and use of buildings, including the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, may require modifications to, or restrict renovations of, existing buildings that may require unexpected expenditures. These laws and regulations may require that structural features be added to buildings under construction. Legislation or regulations that may be adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved access to, and use of these buildings by, disabled persons. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by government authorities or the award of damages to private litigants. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations may be substantial, and limits or restrictions on construction, or the completion of required renovations, may limit the implementation of our investment strategy or reduce overall returns on our investments.. We may be responsible for potential liabilities under environmental laws. Under various federal, state, and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we, as a current or previous owner or operator of real estate, may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances in, on, around, or under that property. These laws may impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate any property containing these substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent the affected property or to borrow funds using the property as collateral. In arranging for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances, we also may be liable for the costs of removal of, or remediation of, these substances at that disposal or treatment facility, whether or not we own or operate the facility. In connection with our current or former ownership (direct or indirect), operation, management, development, and/or control of real properties, we may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs with respect to hazardous or toxic substances at those properties, as well as certain other costs, including governmental fines and claims for injuries to persons and property.  Although we are not aware of any such claims associated with our existing properties that would have a material adverse effect on our business, potential future costs and damage claims may be substantial and could exceed any insurance coverage we may have for such events or such coverage may not exist. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate any such impacts, may adversely affect our ability to borrow against, develop, sell, or rent the affected property.  Some environmental laws create or allow a government agency to impose a lien on the impacted property in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs as a result of responding to hazardous or toxic substances.. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance, and removal of asbestos, and require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos; notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos; and undertake special precautions if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. Indoor air quality issues may also necessitate special investigation and remediation. These air quality issues can result from inadequate ventilation, chemical contaminants from indoor or outdoor sources, or biological contaminants such as molds, pollen, viruses and bacteria. Asbestos or air quality remediation programs could be costly, necessitate the temporary relocation of some or all of the property's tenants, or require rehabilitation of an affected property.. 9. Table of Contents. It is generally our policy to obtain a Phase I environmental study on each property that we seek to acquire. A Phase I environmental study generally includes a visual inspection of the property and the surrounding areas, an examination of current and historical uses of the property and the surrounding areas, and a review of relevant state and federal documents but does not involve invasive techniques such as soil and ground water sampling. If the Phase I indicates any possible environmental problems, our policy is to order a Phase II study, which involves testing the soil and ground water for actual hazardous substances. However, Phase I and Phase II environmental studies, or any other environmental studies undertaken with respect to any of our current or future properties, may not reveal the full extent of potential environmental liabilities. We currently do not carry insurance for environmental liabilities.. Our current or future insurance may not protect us against possible losses. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage, and other insurance with respect to our properties at levels that we believe to be adequate and comparable to coverage customarily obtained by owners of similar properties. However, the coverage limits of our current or future policies may be insufficient to cover the full cost of repair or replacement of all potential losses, or our level of coverage may not continue to be available in the future or, if available, may be available only at unacceptable cost or with unacceptable terms.  We also do not maintain coverage for certain catastrophic events like hurricanes and earthquakes due to the location of our properties.  In most cases, we have to renew our insurance policies on an annual basis and negotiate acceptable terms for coverage, exposing us to the volatility of the insurance markets, including the possibility of rate increases. Any material increases in insurance rates or decrease in available coverage in the future could adversely affect our results of operations.. Litigation risks could affect our business.  As a publicly traded owner, manager, and developer of apartment communities, we may incur liability based on various conditions at our properties and the buildings thereon.  In the past, we have been, and in the future may become, involved in legal proceedings, including consumer, employment, tort, or commercial litigation, any of which if decided adversely to us or settled by us and not adequately covered by insurance, could result in liability that could be material to our results of operations.. Catastrophic weather, natural events, and climate change could adversely affect our business.  Some of our apartment communities are located in areas that may experience catastrophic weather and other natural events from time to time, including snow or ice storms, flooding, mudslides, tornadoes, or other severe or inclement weather.  These adverse and natural events could cause damage or losses that may be greater than insured levels.  In the event of a loss in excess of insured limits, we could lose all or a portion of our investment in an affected property as well as additional revenue from that apartment community.  We may continue to be obligated to repay mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to an affected apartment community.. To the extent that we experience any significant changes in the climate in areas where our apartment communities are located, we may experience extreme weather conditions and prolonged changes in precipitation and temperature, all of which could result in physical damage to, and/or a decrease in demand for, our apartment communities located in these areas.  If the impact of any such climate change were to be material, or occur for a lengthy period of time, our business may be adversely affected.. Actual or threatened terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business.  Actual or threatened terrorist attacks and other acts of war or violence could adversely affect our business.  Attacks that directly impact one or more of our apartment communities could significantly affect our ability to operate these communities, thereby impairing our ability to achieve our expected results.  Our insurance may not adequately cover all losses from a terrorist attack, and the ongoing effects of any terrorist attacks or threatened terrorist attacks could adversely affect the U.S. economy generally and our business in particular.. Potential changes to the condition of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and in government support for apartment communities may adversely affect our business. Historically, we have depended on the Federal National Mortgage Association (\"Fannie Mae\") and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (\"Freddie Mac\") to provide financing for certain apartment communities.   Although Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have a mandate to support multifamily housing through their financing activities, there are current government proposals relating to the future of agency mortgage finance in the U.S. that could involve the phase-out of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  Although we believe that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will continue to provide liquidity to the multifamily sector, any phase-out of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, change in their mandate, or reduction in government support for apartment communities generally could result in adverse changes to interest rates, capital availability, development of additional apartment communities, and the value of these communities.. Expanding social media usage could present new risks.  The use of social media could cause us to suffer broad reputational damage.  Negative posts or comments about us on any social networking website, or disclosure of any non-public sensitive information relating to our business, could damage our reputation.  The continuing evolution of social media will present us with new and ongoing challenges and risks.. Employee theft or fraud could result in loss.  Certain employees have access to, or signature authority with respect to, our bank accounts or assets, which exposes us to the risk of fraud or theft.  Certain employees also have access to key information technology. 10. Table of Contents. (\"IT\") infrastructure and to tenant and other information that may be commercially valuable.  If any employee were to compromise our IT systems, or misappropriate tenant or other information, we could incur losses, including potentially significant financial or reputational harm.  We may not have insurance that covers any losses in full or covers losses from particular criminal acts.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and Financings. Our inability to renew, repay, or refinance our debt may result in losses. We incur a significant amount of debt in the ordinary course of our business and in connection with acquisitions of real properties. Because we have a limited ability to retain earnings as a result of the REIT distribution requirements, we will generally be required to refinance debt that matures with additional debt or equity. We are subject to the normal risks associated with debt financing, including the risks that:. • our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest;. • we will not be able to renew, refinance, or repay our indebtedness when due; and. • the terms of any renewal or refinancing will be less favorable than the terms of our current indebtedness.. These risks increase when credit markets are tight. In general, when the credit markets are tight, we may encounter resistance from lenders when we seek financing or refinancing for properties or proposed acquisitions, and the terms of such financing or refinancing are likely to be less favorable to us than the terms of our current indebtedness.. We anticipate that we will need to refinance a significant portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. We cannot guarantee that any refinancing of debt with other debt will be possible on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. If we cannot refinance, extend, or pay principal payments due at maturity with the proceeds of other capital transactions, our cash flows may not be sufficient in all years to repay debt as it matures.  If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be forced to dispose of one or more properties on disadvantageous terms, which may result in losses. These losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders, and our ability to pay amounts due on our debt. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments or refinance the debt at maturity, the mortgagor could foreclose upon the property, appoint a receiver, and receive an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies, including taking ownership of the property, all with a consequent loss of revenues and asset value. Foreclosures also could affect our ability to obtain new debt and could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements of the Code and impeding our ability to obtain financing for our other properties.. The restrictive terms of indebtedness may cause acceleration of debt payments and constrain our ability to conduct certain transactions.  At April 30, 2018, we and our Operating Partnership had outstanding borrowings of approximately $706.1 million. Some of this indebtedness contains financial covenants relating to fixed charge coverage ratios, maximum secured debt, maintenance of unencumbered asset value, and total debt to gross assets, among others. Some covenants present new constraints as we navigate investments and dispositions with respect to our ability to invest in certain markets, add incremental secured and recourse debt, and add overall leverage. If an event of default occurs, our lenders may declare borrowings under the loan agreements to be due and payable immediately, which could have an adverse effect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt.. Rising interest rates may affect our cost of capital and financing activities.  Interest rates have been rising recently, and some of our mortgage debt has varying interest rates dependent upon certain market indexes.  Rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance portions of our fixed-rate indebtedness when it matures and would increase our interest costs. We also have an unsecured credit facility that bears interest at variable rates based on amounts drawn.  As a result, any further increase in interest rates could increase our interest expense on our variable rate debt, increase our interest rates when refinancing fixed-rate debt, increase the cost of issuing new debt, and reduce the cash available for distribution to shareholders.. Interest rate hedging arrangements may result in losses.  From time to time, we use interest rate swaps and other hedging instruments to manage our interest rate risks.  Although these arrangements may partially protect us against rising interest rates, they also may reduce the benefits to us if interest rates decline. If a hedging arrangement is not indexed to the same rate as the indebtedness that is hedged, we may be exposed to losses to the extent that the rate governing the indebtedness and the rate governing the hedging arrangement change independently of each other, and nonperformance by the other party to the hedging arrangement also may subject us to increased credit risks.  In order to minimize any counterparty credit risk, we enter into hedging arrangements only with investment grade financial institutions.. 11. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Shares. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly.  The market price and trading volume of our common shares are subject to fluctuation due to general market conditions, the risks discussed in this report, and several other factors, including the following:. • regional, national, and global economic and business conditions;. • actual or anticipated changes in our quarterly operating results or dividends;. • changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates;. • investor interest in our property portfolio;. • the market perception and performance of REITs in general;. • the market perception or trading volume of REITs relative to other investment opportunities;. • the market perception of our financial condition, performance, distributions, and growth potential;. • general stock and bond market conditions, including potential increases in interest rates that could lead investors to seek high annual yield from dividends;. • shifts in our investor base to a higher concentration of passive investors, including exchange-traded funds and index funds, that could have an adverse effect on our ability to communicate with our shareholders;. • our ability to access capital markets, which could impact our cost of capital;. • a change in our credit rating or analyst ratings;. • changes in minimum dividend requirements;. • terrorism or other factors that adversely impact the markets in which our stock trades; and. • changes in tax laws or government regulations that could affect the attractiveness of our stock.. Rising interest rates could have an adverse effect on our share price, and low trading volume on the NYSE may prevent the timely resale of our shares.  If interest rates continue to increase, this could cause holders of our common stock and other investors to seek higher dividends on our shares or higher yields through other investments, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares.  Although our common shares are listed on the NYSE, the daily trading volume of our shares may be lower than the trading volume for other companies.  As a result of lower trading volume, an owner of our common shares may encounter difficulty in selling our shares in a timely manner and may incur a substantial loss.. Failure to generate sufficient revenue or other liquidity needs could limit cash flow available for distributions to our shareholders.  A decrease in rental revenue, an increase in funding to support our acquisition and development needs, or other unmet liquidity needs could have an adverse effect on our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders or the Operating Partnership's unitholders.. Payment of distributions on our common shares is not guaranteed. Our Board of Trustees must approve any stock distributions and may elect at any time, or from time to time, and for an indefinite duration, to reduce or not pay the distributions payable on our common shares. Our Board may reduce distributions for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to the following:. • operating and financial results cannot support the current distribution payment;. • unanticipated costs, capital requirements, or cash requirements;. • annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code;. • a conclusion that the payment of distributions would cause us to breach the terms of certain agreements or contracts, such as financial ratio covenants in our debt financing documents; or. • other factors the Board of Trustees may consider relevant.. Our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to raise additional equity capital, which will have the effect of diluting the interests of our common shareholders.  Our future growth depends upon, among other things, our ability to raise equity capital and issue limited partnership units of IRET Properties. Sales of substantial amounts of our common or preferred shares in the public market, or substantial issuances of our common shares in connection with redemption requests for limited partnership units, or the perception that such sales or issuances might occur, will dilute the interests of the current common shareholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common shares.. 12. Table of Contents. We may issue additional classes or series of our shares of beneficial interest with rights and preferences that are superior to the rights and preferences of our common shares. Without the approval of our common shareholders, our Board of Trustees may establish additional classes or series of our shares of beneficial interest, and such classes or series may have dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences, or other rights and preferences that are superior to the rights of the holders of our common shares.  In that regard, in September 2017, we filed a new shelf registration statement with the SEC that enables us to sell an undetermined number of equity and debt securities as defined in the prospectus.  Future sales of common stock, preferred stock, or convertible debt securities may dilute current shareholders and could have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock.. Our rating by proxy advisory firms or other corporate governance consultants advising institutional investors could have an adverse effect on the perception of our corporate governance and thereby negatively impact the market price of our common stock.  Various proxy advisory firms and other corporate governance consultants advising institutional investors provide scores or ratings of our corporate governance, executive compensation practices, and other matters that may be submitted to shareholders in connection with our annual meetings.  From time to time, certain matters that we propose for approval may not receive a favorable score or rating or might even result in a negative score or rating or recommendation against the matter proposed.  In these situations, unfavorable scores or ratings may lead to rejected proposals, which could lead to decreases in our market price.  Although we periodically review our corporate governance measures and consider implementing changes that we believe to be responsive to concerns that have been raised, there may be times when we decide not to implement changes recommended by proxy advisors or other corporate governance consultants because we do not believe that such changes are in the best interests of IRET and our shareholders, notwithstanding the negative effect that such a decision could have on our ratings or stock price.. Any material weaknesses identified in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect our stock price.  Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting.  If we were to identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in our financial reporting and results of operations, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our stock price.. Risks Related to Our Tax Status. We may incur tax liabilities as a consequence of failing to qualify as a REIT, which could force us to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions.  We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code.  Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions, including income, asset, and distribution tests, for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could endanger our REIT status. The determination that we qualify as a REIT requires an ongoing analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be within our control. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must come from certain passive sources that are itemized in the REIT tax laws, and we are prohibited from owning specified amounts of debt or equity securities of some issuers. Thus, to the extent revenues from non-qualifying sources, such as income from third-party management services, represent more than 5% of our gross income in any taxable year, we will not satisfy the 95% income test and may fail to qualify as a REIT, unless certain relief provisions contained in the Code apply. Even if relief provisions apply, however, a tax would be imposed with respect to excess net income. We are also required to make distributions to the holders of our securities of at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined before a deduction for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% test but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to corporate income tax on such undistributed income and could be subject to an additional 4% excise tax. Because we need to meet these tests to maintain our qualification as a REIT, it could cause us to have to forego certain business opportunities and potentially require us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. The fact that we hold substantially all of our assets (except for qualified REIT subsidiaries) through IRET Properties, our operating partnership, and its subsidiaries, and our ongoing reliance on factual determinations, such as determinations related to the valuation of our assets, further complicates the application of the REIT requirements for us. If IRET Properties or one or more of our subsidiaries is determined to be taxable as a corporation, we may fail to qualify as a REIT. Either our failure to qualify as a REIT, for any reason, or the imposition of taxes on excess net income from non-qualifying sources, could adversely affect our business and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. New legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change the tax laws with respect to our qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of our qualification.. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, could be subject to increased state and local taxes and, unless entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we lost our qualification, which would likely have a material adverse effect on us, our ability to make distributions to our shareholders, and our ability to pay amounts due on our debt. This treatment would reduce funds available for investment or distributions to the holders of our securities due to the additional tax liability to us for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be able to deduct, and would not be required to make, distributions to our shareholders. To the extent that distributions to the holders of our securities had been. 13. Table of Contents. made in anticipation of qualifying as a REIT, we may need short-term debt or long-term debt or proceeds from asset sales or sales of common shares to fund required distributions as a result of differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and the recognition of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. The inability of our cash flows to cover our distribution requirements could have an adverse impact on our ability to raise short and long-term debt or sell equity securities in order to fund distributions required to maintain our REIT status.. Failure of our operating partnership to qualify as a partnership would adversely affect us. We believe that IRET Properties, our operating partnership, qualifies as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. However, we can provide no assurance that the IRS will not challenge its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were to be successful in treating IRET Properties as an entity taxable as a corporation (such as a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation), we would cease to qualify as a REIT because the value of our ownership interest in IRET Properties would exceed 5% of our assets and because we would be considered to hold more than 10% of the voting securities and value of the outstanding securities of another corporation. The imposition of a corporate tax on IRET Properties would significantly reduce the amount of cash available for distribution.. Certain provisions of our Declaration of Trust may limit a change in control and deter a takeover. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our Declaration of Trust provides that any transaction that would result in our disqualification as a REIT under Section 856 of the Code will be void, including any transaction that would result in the following:. • a person owning in excess of the ownership limit of 9.8%, in number or value, of our outstanding shares;. • less than 100 people owning our shares;. • our being \"closely held\" within the meaning of Section 856(h) of the Code; or. • 50% or more of the fair market value of our shares being held by persons other than \"United States persons.\". If the transaction is not void, then the shares in violation of the foregoing conditions will automatically be exchanged for an equal number of excess shares, and these excess shares will be transferred to an excess share trustee for the exclusive benefit of the charitable beneficiaries named by our Board of Trustees. These limitations may have the effect of preventing a change in control or takeover of us by a third party, even if the change in control or takeover would be in the best interests of our shareholders.. Legislative or regulatory actions affecting REITs could have an adverse effect on us or our shareholders. Changes to the tax laws could adversely affect us or our shareholders. In 2017, Congress passed tax legislation (the \"2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\") that significantly changed the U.S. federal income taxation of U.S. businesses and their owners, including REITs and their shareholders. Although the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was recently passed, there can be no assurance that future changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws or regulations will not be proposed or enacted that could impact our business and financial results. The REIT rules are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service and the U.S. Treasury Department, which may result in revisions to regulations and interpretations as well as statutory changes. If enacted, certain changes could have an adverse impact on our business. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 also contained provisions that may reduce the relative competitive advantage of operating as a REIT. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 lowered income tax rates on individuals and corporations, easing the burden of double taxation on corporate dividends and potentially causing the single level of taxation on REIT distributions to be relatively less attractive. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 also contains provisions allowing the expensing of capital expenditures, which could result in the bunching of taxable income and required distributions for REITs, and provisions further limiting the deductibility of interest expense, which could disrupt the real estate market. We cannot predict whether, when, or to what extent the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 and any new U.S. federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations, or rulings will impact the real estate investment industry or REITs. Prospective investors are urged to consult their tax advisers regarding the effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 and potential future changes to the federal tax laws of an investment in our shares or units.. Dividends payable by REITs may be taxed at higher rates than dividends of non-REIT corporations, which could reduce the net cash received by our shareholders and may be detrimental to our ability to raise additional funds through any future sale of our stock. Dividends paid by REITs to U.S. shareholders that are individuals, trusts, or estates are generally not eligible for the reduced tax rate applicable to qualified dividends received from non-REIT corporations but, under the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, U.S. shareholders that are individuals, trusts, and estates generally may deduct 20% of ordinary dividends from a REIT (for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026). Although this deduction reduces the effective tax rate applicable to certain dividends paid by REITs, such tax rate is still higher than the tax rate applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends. This may cause investors to view REIT investments as less attractive than investments in non-REIT corporations, which in turn may adversely affect the value of stock in REITs, including our stock. Investors should consult with their tax advisers regarding the U.S. tax consequences of an investment in our stock or units.. 14. Table of Contents. We may face risks in connection with Section 1031 exchanges. From time to time, we dispose of properties in transactions intended to qualify as \"like-kind exchanges\" under Section 1031 of the Code. If a transaction intended to qualify as a Section 1031 exchange is later determined to be taxable, we may face adverse consequences, and if the laws applicable to such transactions are amended or repealed, we may not be able to dispose of properties on a tax-deferred basis.  If we are unable to meet the technical requirements of a desired Section 1031 exchange, we may be required to make a special dividend payment to our shareholders if we are unable to mitigate the taxable gains realized.. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify and maintain our status as a REIT, we must satisfy certain requirements with respect to the character of our assets. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the quarter (by, possibly, selling assets notwithstanding their prospects as an investment) to avoid losing our REIT status. This could include potentially selling otherwise attractive assets or liquidating or foregoing otherwise attractive investments. These actions could reduce our income and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders.. Even if we qualify as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flows. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state, and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property, and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. The tax imposed on REITs engaging in prohibited transactions and our agreements entered into with certain contributors of our properties may limit our ability to engage in transactions that would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. The federal income tax provisions applicable to REITs provide that any gain realized by a REIT on the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a \"prohibited transaction\" that is subject to a 100% penalty tax. Under current law, unless a sale of real property qualifies for a safe harbor, the question of whether the sale of a property constitutes the sale of property held primarily for sale to customers is generally a question of the facts and circumstances regarding a particular transaction. We may make sales that do not satisfy the requirements of the safe harbors, or the IRS may successfully assert that one or more of our sales are prohibited transactions and, as a result, we may be required to pay a penalty tax. To avert this penalty tax, we may hold some of our assets through a taxable REIT subsidiary (\"TRS\"). While the TRS structure would allow the economic benefits of ownership to flow to us, a TRS is subject to tax on its income at the federal and state level. We have entered into agreements with certain contributors of our properties that contain limitations on our ability to dispose of certain properties in taxable transactions. The restrictions on taxable dispositions are effective for varying periods. Such agreements may require that we make a payment to the contributor in the event that we dispose of a covered property in a taxable sale during the restriction period.. Our ownership of TRSs is limited, and our transactions with TRSs will cause us to be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain income or deductions if those transactions are not conducted on arm's-length terms. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs. A TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT. Both the subsidiary and the REIT must jointly elect to treat the subsidiary as a TRS. A corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of the stock will automatically be treated as a TRS. Overall, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT's assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs, and the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to assure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm's-length basis.. Our TRS is subject to applicable federal, state, and local income tax on its taxable income, and its after-tax net income will be available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us. We believe that the aggregate value of the stock and securities of our TRS is and will continue to be less than 20% of the value of our total assets (including our TRS stock and securities). We will continue to monitor the value of our investments in our TRS for the purpose of ensuring compliance with TRS ownership limitations. We will scrutinize all of our transactions with our TRS to ensure that they are entered into on arm's-length terms to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 20% limitation discussed above or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax discussed above.. Our Board of Trustees may make changes to our major policies without approval of our shareholders. Our operating and financial policies, including policies relating to development and acquisition of real estate, financing, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization, and distributions are exclusively determined by our Board of Trustees. Our Board of Trustees may amend or revoke those policies, and other policies, without advance notice to, or the approval of, our shareholders.. 15. Table of Contents"
