[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. This report contains or incorporates by reference statements concerning our future results and performance and other matters that are \"forward-looking\" statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (\"Securities Act\"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (\"Exchange Act\"). These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our or our industry's results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as \"may,\" \"will,\" \"would,\" \"should,\" \"intend,\" \"expect,\" \"plan,\" \"anticipate,\" \"believe,\" \"estimate,\" \"predict,\" \"potential,\" or \"continue\" or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Examples of other forward-looking statements contained or incorporated by reference in this report include statements regarding:. • any additional damages or adverse rulings in the WesternGeco litigation and future potential adverse effects on our financial results and liquidity;. • future levels of capital expenditures of our customers for seismic activities;. • future oil and gas commodity prices;. • the effects of current and future worldwide economic conditions (particularly in developing countries) and demand for oil and natural gas and seismic equipment and services;. • future cash needs and availability of cash to fund our operations and pay our obligations;. • facing a significant debt maturity in 2018;. • the effects of current and future unrest in the Middle East, North Africa and other regions;. • the timing of anticipated revenues and the recognition of those revenues for financial accounting purposes;. • the effects of ongoing and future industry consolidation, including, in particular, the effects of consolidation and vertical integration in the towed marine seismic streamers market;. • the timing of future revenue realization of anticipated orders for multi-client survey projects and data processing work in our E&P Technology & Services segment;. • future levels of our capital expenditures;. • future government regulations, pertaining to the oil and gas industry;. 13. • expected net revenues, income from operations and net income;. • expected gross margins for our services and products;. • future benefits to be derived from our OceanGeo subsidiary;. • future seismic industry fundamentals, including future demand for seismic services and equipment;. • future benefits to our customers to be derived from new services and products;. • future benefits to be derived from our investments in technologies, joint ventures and acquired companies;. • future growth rates for our services and products;. • the degree and rate of future market acceptance of our new services and products;. • expectations regarding E&P companies and seismic contractor end-users purchasing our more technologically-advanced services and products;. • anticipated timing and success of commercialization and capabilities of services and products under development and start-up costs associated with their development;. • future opportunities for new products and projected research and development expenses;. • expected continued compliance with our debt financial covenants;. • expectations regarding realization of deferred tax assets;. • expectations regarding the impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act;. • anticipated results with respect to certain estimates we make for financial accounting purposes; and. • compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable U.S. and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials and other third parties.. These forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. Our results of operations can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we make or by risks and uncertainties known or unknown to us. Therefore, we cannot guarantee the accuracy of the forward-looking statements. Actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations and assumptions. While we cannot identify all of the factors that may cause actual results to vary from our expectations, we believe the following factors should be considered carefully:. An unfavorable outcome in our pending litigation matter with WesternGeco could have a materially adverse effect on our financial results and liquidity.. In June 2009, WesternGeco L.L.C. (\"WesternGeco\") filed a lawsuit against us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas, Houston Division. In the lawsuit, styled WesternGeco L.L.C. v. ION Geophysical Corporation, WesternGeco alleged that we had infringed several method and apparatus claims contained in four of its United States patents regarding marine seismic streamer steering devices.. The trial began in July 2012. A verdict was returned by the jury in August 2012, finding that we infringed the claims contained in the four patents by supplying our DigiFIN, lateral streamer control units and the related software from the United States and awarded WesternGeco the sum of $105.9 million in damages, consisting of $12.5 million in reasonable royalty and $93.4 million in lost profits.. In June 2013, the presiding judge entered a Memorandum and Order, denying our post-verdict motions that challenged the jury's infringement findings and the damages amount. In the Memorandum and Order, the judge also stated that WesternGeco was entitled to be awarded supplemental damages for the additional DigiFIN units that were supplied from the United States before and after trial that were not included in the jury verdict due to the timing of the trial. In October 2013, the judge entered another Memorandum and Order, ruling on the number of DigiFIN units that were subject to supplemental damages and also ruling that the supplemental damages applicable to the additional units were to be calculated by adding together the jury's previous reasonable royalty and lost profits damages awards per unit, resulting in supplemental damages of $73.1 million.. In April 2014, the judge entered another Order, ruling that lost profits should not have been included in the calculation of supplemental damages in the October 2013 Memorandum and Order and reducing the supplemental damages award in the case from $73.1 million to $9.4 million. In the Order, the judge also further reduced the damages awarded in the case by $3.0 million to reflect a settlement and license that WesternGeco entered into with a customer of ours that had purchased and used DigiFIN units that were also included in the damage amounts awarded against us.. In May 2014, the judge signed and entered a Final Judgment against us in the amount of $123.8 million. The Final Judgment also included an injunction that enjoins us, our agents and anyone acting in concert with us, from supplying in or. 14. from the United States the DigiFIN product or any parts unique to the DigiFIN product, or any instrumentality no more than colorably different from any of these products or parts, for combination outside of the United States. We have conducted our business in compliance with the District Court's orders in the case, and we have reorganized our operations such that we no longer supply the DigiFIN product or any parts unique to the DigiFIN product in or from the United States.. We and WesternGeco each appealed the Final Judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, D.C. (the \"Court of Appeals\"). On July 2, 2015, the Court of Appeals reversed in part the Final Judgment of the District Court, holding the District Court erred by including lost profits in the Final Judgment. Lost profits were $93.4 million and prejudgment interest on the lost profits was approximately $10.9 million of the $123.8 million Final Judgment.  Pre-judgment interest on the lost profits portion will be treated in the same way as the lost profits. Post-judgment interest will likewise be treated in the same fashion. On July 29, 2015, WesternGeco filed a petition for rehearing en banc before the Court of Appeals. On October 30, 2015 the Court of Appeals denied WesternGeco's petition for rehearing en banc.. As previously disclosed, we had previously taken a loss contingency accrual of $123.8 million. As a result of the reversal by the Court of Appeals, as of June 30, 2015, we reduced our loss contingency accrual to $22.0 million.. On February 26, 2016, WesternGeco filed a petition for writ of certiorari by the Supreme Court.  We filed our response on April 27, 2016.  Subsequently, on June 20, 2016, the Supreme Court vacated the Court of Appeals' ruling although it did not address the lost profits question at that time.  Rather, in light of the changes in case law regarding the standard of proof for willfulness in the Halo and Stryker cases, the Supreme Court indicated that the case should be remanded to the Court of Appeals for a determination of whether or not the willfulness determination by the District Court was appropriate.. On October 14, 2016, the Court of Appeals issued a mandate returning the case to the District Court for consideration of whether or not additional damages for willfulness were appropriate.. On March 14, 2017, the District Court held a hearing on whether or not additional damages for willfulness would be payable. The Judge found that ION's infringement was willful, based on his perception that ION did not adequately investigate the scope of the patent, and ION's conduct during trial. However, in his ruling at the hearing, he limited enhanced damages to $5.0 million because it was a \"close case,\" there was no evidence of copying, and ION was simply acting as a competitor in a capitalist marketplace. The District Court also ordered the appeal bond to be released and discharged. The Court's findings and ruling were memorialized in an order issued on May 16, 2017. On June 30, 2017, WesternGeco and we jointly agreed that neither party would appeal the District Court's award of $5.0 million in enhanced damages. The parties also agreed that the $5.0 million would be paid over the course of 12 months with $1.25 million being paid in two installments of $0.625 million in 2017 and the remaining $3.75 million being paid in three quarterly payments of $1.25 million beginning January 1, 2018. This agreement was memorialized by the court in an order issued on July 26, 2017.. WesternGeco filed a second petition for writ of certiorari in the U.S. Supreme Court on February 17, 2017, appealing the lost profits issue again. We filed our response to WesternGeco's second attempt to appeal to the Supreme Court the lost profits issue, raising both the substantive matters the Company addressed by opposing WesternGeco's first petition, and also raising a procedural argument that WesternGeco cannot raise the same issue for a second time in a second petition for certiorari. On May 30, 2017, the Supreme Court called for the views of the U.S. Solicitor General regarding whether or not to grant certiorari.  We and WesternGeco each met with the Solicitor General's office in late July, 2017.  On December 6, 2017, the Solicitor General filed its brief, and took the position that the Supreme Court ought to grant certiorari.  On January 12, 2018, the Supreme Court granted certiorari as to whether the Court of Appeals erred in holding that lost profits arising from use of prohibited combinations occurring outside of the United States are categorically unavailable in cases where patent infringement is proven under 35 U.S.C. § 271(f)(2) (the specific statute under which we were ultimately held to have infringed WesternGeco's patents and upon which the District Court and the Federal Circuit relied in entering their final rulings).  We will argue to the Supreme Court that the decision of the Court of Appeals that eliminated lost profits ought to be upheld.  We anticipate oral arguments will take place in April of 2018 and that the Supreme Court will issue a decision by the end of June of 2018.. At the Court of Appeals we presented multiple arguments as to why the District Court's award of lost profits was improper.  The lost profits damages awarded by the District Court were based on the use of our products by our customers outside of the United States.  We argued at the Court of Appeals that, as a matter of law, WesternGeco cannot recoup lost profits for the overseas use of our products.  We also argued that, under the jury instructions given in our case, WesternGeco would need to have been a direct competitor of ours in the survey markets to recoup lost profits, and that the jury was required to find that WesternGeco and ION were direct competitors.  Because the Court of Appeals ruled in our favor on the first argument, and overturned the award of lost profits on that basis, the Court of Appeals did not rule on our \"direct competitor\" argument. If the Supreme Court overturns the Court of Appeals' decision that lost profits cannot be awarded to WesternGeco because the subsequent use of the apparatus was overseas, the case will be remanded back to the Court of Appeals, at which time we will present our second argument (that lost profits should not be awarded to WesternGeco because they were not our direct competitor).. 15. Other proceedings may have an impact on WesternGeco's ability to recover lost profits damages even if WesternGeco prevails in the Supreme Court, and even if we do not prevail on the \"direct competitor\" argument in the Court of Appeals.  We were a party to a challenge to the validity of several of WesternGeco's patent claims by means of an Inter Partes Review (\"IPR\") with the Patent Trial and Appeal Board (\"PTAB\").  While the above-described lawsuit was pending on appeal, the PTAB invalidated four of the six patent claims that formed the basis for the jury verdict in the lawsuit.  WesternGeco appealed that decision to the Court of Appeals, which heard our and WesternGeco's arguments on January 23, 2018.  If the Court of Appeals affirms the PTAB's invalidation of the patents, that may provide a separate ground for reducing or vacating any lost-profits award in the lawsuit.  We expect the Court of Appeals to rule on the PTAB issue late in the first quarter of 2018 or in the second quarter of 2018.. We may not ultimately prevail in any of the appeals processes noted above and we could be required to pay some or all of the lost profits that were awarded by the District Court. Our assessment that we do not have a loss contingency may change in the future due to developments at the Supreme Court, the Court of Appeals, or the District Court, and other events, such as changes in applicable law, and such reassessment could lead to the determination that a significant loss contingency (up to the full amount of the lost profits awarded by the District Court) is probable, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.. Our business depends on the level of exploration and production activities by the oil and natural gas industry. If crude oil and natural gas prices or the level of capital expenditures by E&P companies decline, demand for our services and products would decline and our results of operations would be materially adversely affected.. Demand for our services and products depends upon the level of spending by E&P companies and seismic contractors for exploration and production activities, and those activities depend in large part on oil and gas prices. Spending by our customers on services and products that we provide is highly discretionary in nature, and subject to rapid and material change. Any decline in oil and gas related spending on behalf of our customers could cause alterations in our capital spending plans, project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions or delays in payment, or non-payment of amounts that are owed to us, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Additionally, the recent increases in oil and gas prices may not increase demand for our services and products or otherwise have a positive effect on our financial condition or results of operations. E&P companies' willingness to explore, develop and produce depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which our management has no control, such as:. • the supply of and demand for oil and gas;. • the level of prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and gas;. • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and gas;. • the expected rates of decline for current production;. • the discovery rates of new oil and gas reserves;. • weather conditions, including hurricanes, that can affect oil and gas operations over a wide area, as well as less severe inclement weather that can preclude or delay seismic data acquisition;. • domestic and worldwide economic conditions;. • significant devaluation of the Mexican Peso and its impact on the Mexican economy and offshore exploration programs;. • political instability in oil and gas producing countries;. • technical advances affecting energy consumption;. • government policies regarding the exploration, production and development of oil and gas reserves;. • the ability of oil and gas producers to raise equity capital and debt financing;. • merger and divestiture activity among oil and gas companies and seismic contractors; and. • compliance by members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (\"OPEC\") and non-OPEC members such as Russia, with recent agreements to cut oil production.. The level of oil and gas exploration and production activity has been volatile in recent years. Trends in oil and gas exploration and development activities have declined, together with demand for our services and products. Any prolonged substantial reduction in oil and gas prices would likely further affect oil and gas production levels and therefore adversely affect demand for the services we provide and products we sell.. 16. Our operating results often fluctuate from period to period, and we are subject to cyclicality and seasonality factors.. Our industry and the oil and gas industry in general are subject to cyclical fluctuations. Demand for our services and products depends upon spending levels by E&P companies for exploration and production of oil and natural gas and, in the case of new seismic data acquisition, the willingness of those companies to forgo ownership of the seismic data. Capital expenditures by E&P companies for these activities depend upon several factors, including actual and forecasted prices of oil and natural gas and those companies' short-term and strategic plans.. After a period of heightened exploration activity by E&P companies leading up to the fourth quarter of 2014, many E&P companies shifted their focus more to production activities and less on exploration during 2015 and 2016, as the continued decline in oil and gas prices resulted in decreasing revenues and prompted cost reduction initiatives across the industry.  The U.S. Energy Information Administration (\"EIA\") forecasts the Brent crude oil spot price will average $60 per barrel in 2018 and $61 per barrel in 2019, as members of OPEC limited production after a long period of unrestrained output.  Energy prices, which include oil, natural gas and coal, are projected to increase overall next year as demand strengthens and supplies tighten.  As of December 31, 2017, our E&P Technology & Services segment backlog, consisting of commitments for data processing work and for underwritten multi-client New Venture and proprietary projects increased by 16% compared to our existing backlog as of December 31, 2016. The increase in our backlog was primarily due to our 3-D reimaging projects offshore Mexico and Brazil.. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations from period to period as a result of introducing new services and products, the timing of significant expenses in connection with customer orders, unrealized sales, levels of research and development activities in different periods, the product and service mix of our revenues and the seasonality of our business. Because some of our products feature a high sales price and are technologically complex, we generally experience long sales cycles for these types of products and historically incur significant expense at the beginning of these cycles. In addition, the revenues can vary widely from period to period due to changes in customer requirements and demand. These factors can create fluctuations in our net revenues and results of operations from period to period. Variability in our overall gross margins for any period, which depend on the percentages of higher-margin and lower-margin services and products sold in that period, compounds these uncertainties. As a result, if net revenues or gross margins fall below expectations, our results of operations and financial condition will likely be materially adversely affected.. Additionally, our business can be seasonal in nature, with strongest demand typically in the fourth calendar quarter of each year. Customer budgeting cycles at times result in higher spending activity levels by our customers at different points of the year.. Due to the relatively high sales price of many of our products and seismic data libraries, our quarterly operating results have historically fluctuated from period to period due to the timing of orders and shipments and the mix of services and products sold. This uneven pattern makes financial predictions for any given period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition, and places challenges on our inventory management. Delays caused by factors beyond our control can affect our E&P Technology & Services segment's revenues from its imaging and multi-client services from period to period. Also, delays in ordering products or in shipping or delivering products in a given period could significantly affect our results of operations for that period. While we experienced an all-time record for data library sales in the fourth quarter of 2013, sales starting in 2014 and continuing through 2017 have been negatively impacted by a softening of exploration spending by our E&P customers.  Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause greater volatility in the market price of our common stock.. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations and operate our business.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $156.7 million of total outstanding indebtedness, including $0.3 million of capital leases. As of December 31, 2017, there was $10.0 million outstanding indebtedness under our Credit Facility. Under our Credit Facility, as amended, the lender has committed $40.0 million of revolving credit, subject to a borrowing base. As of December 31, 2017, we have $15.5 million remaining availability under the Credit Facility. The amount available will increase or decrease monthly as our borrowing base changes. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" appearing below in this Form 10-K.. In October 2016, S&P Global Ratings (\"S&P\") raised our corporate credit rating to CCC+ from SD and maintains a negative outlook.  In May 2016, Moody's Investors Service (\"Moody's\") affirmed a Corporate Family Rating of Caa2 and its rating outlook was changed from negative to stable.  These rating actions followed our completed exchange offer. S&P continues to hold a negative outlook on our Company reflecting the high debt leverage, expected negative free cash flow and the potential for liquidity to weaken, if market conditions do not significantly improve.. 17. Our high level of indebtedness could have negative consequences to us, including:. • we may have difficulty satisfying our obligations with respect to our outstanding debt;. • we may have difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes;. • we may need to use all, or a substantial portion, of our available cash flow to pay interest and principal on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money available to finance our operations and other business activities;. • our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions could increase;. • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry in general could be limited;. • our amount of debt and the amount we must pay to service our debt obligations could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;. • our customers may react adversely to our significant debt level and seek or develop alternative licensors or suppliers;. • we may have insufficient funds, and our debt level may also restrict us from raising the funds necessary to repurchase all of the Notes, as defined below, tendered to us upon the occurrence of a change of control, which would constitute an event of default under the Notes; and. • our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants in our debt instruments which, among other things, limit our ability to incur debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects.. Our level of indebtedness will require that we use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, which will reduce the availability of cash to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, research and development and other general corporate or business activities.. We face a significant debt maturity in 2018.. Our $28.5 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Secured Third-Priority Lien notes mature on May 15, 2018. If our cash flows from operations and other capital resources are insufficient to pay off such notes, we may face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay investments, dispose of material assets or operations, or issue additional debt or equity. We may not be able to take such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results or operations.. We are subject to intense competition, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or to maintain our prices at profitable levels.. Many of our sales are obtained through a competitive bidding process, which is standard for our industry. Competitive factors in recent years have included price, technological expertise, and a reputation for quality, safety and dependability. While no single company competes with us in all of our segments, we are subject to intense competition in each of our segments. New entrants in many of the markets in which certain of our services and products are currently strong should be expected. See Item 1. \"Business  -  Competition.\" We compete with companies that are larger than we are in terms of revenues, technical personnel, number of processing locations and sales and marketing resources. A few of our competitors have a competitive advantage in being part of a large affiliated seismic contractor company. In addition, we compete with major service providers and government-sponsored enterprises and affiliates.  Some of our competitors conduct seismic data acquisition operations as part of their regular business, which we have traditionally not conducted, and have greater financial and other resources than we do. These and other competitors may be better positioned to withstand and adjust more quickly to volatile market conditions, such as fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices, as well as changes in government regulations. In addition, any excess supply of services and products in the seismic services market could apply downward pressure on prices for our services and products. The negative effects of the competitive environment in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In particular, the consolidation in recent years of many of our competitors in the seismic services and products markets has negatively impacted our results of operations.. There are a number of geophysical companies that create, market and license seismic data and maintain seismic libraries. Competition for acquisition of new seismic data among geophysical service providers historically has been intense and we expect this competition will continue to be intense. Larger and better-financed operators could enjoy an advantage over us in a competitive environment for new data.. 18. Our OceanGeo subsidiary involves numerous risks.. Our OceanGeo subsidiary is focused on operating as a seismic acquisition contractor concentrating on OBS data acquisition. There can be no assurance that we will achieve the expected benefits from this company. OceanGeo (and any future acquisitions that we may undertake) may result in unexpected costs, expenses and liabilities, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. OceanGeo may encounter further difficulties in developing and expanding its business.. OceanGeo's business exposes us to the operating risks of being a seismic contractor with seismic crews:. • Seismic data acquisition activities in marine ocean bottom areas are subject to the risk of downtime or reduced productivity, as well as to the risks of loss to property and injury to personnel, mechanical failures and natural disasters. In addition to losses caused by human errors and accidents, we may also become subject to losses resulting from, among other things, political instability, business interruption, strikes and weather events; and. • OceanGeo's equipment and services may expose us to litigation and legal proceedings, including those related to product liability, personal injury and contract liability.. We have in place insurance coverage against operating hazards, including product liability claims and personal injury claims, damage, destruction or business interruption related to OceanGeo's equipment and services, and whenever possible, OceanGeo will obtain agreements from customers that limit our liability. We also carry war, strikes, terrorism and related perils coverage for OceanGeo. However, we cannot provide assurance that the nature and amount of insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify OceanGeo and us against liabilities arising from pending and future claims or that its insurance coverage will be adequate in all circumstances or against all hazards, and that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future at commercially reasonable rates or on acceptable terms.. OceanGeo is also subject to, and exposes OceanGeo and us to, various additional risks that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These risks include the following:. • increased costs associated with the operation of the business and the management of geographically dispersed operations;. • OceanGeo's cash flows may be inadequate to fund its capital requirements, thereby requiring additional contributions to OceanGeo by us;. • OceanGeo's cash flows may be inadequate to realize the value of manufactured equipment for use in its ocean bottom seismic surveys;. • risks associated with our Calypso and 4Sea ocean bottom products that are intended to be utilized by OceanGeo in its operations, including risks that the new technology may not perform as well as we anticipate;. • difficulties in retaining and integrating key technical, sales and marketing personnel and the possible loss of such employees and costs associated with their loss;. • the diversion of management's attention and other resources from other business operations and related concerns;. • the requirement to maintain uniform standards, controls and procedures;. • our inability to realize operating efficiencies, cost savings or other benefits that we expect from OceanGeo's operations; and. • difficulties and delays in securing new business and customer projects.. The indentures governing the 9.125% Senior Secured Second-Priority Notes due 2021 and 8.125% Senior Secured Third-Priority Notes due 2018 (the \"Notes\") contain a number of restrictive covenants that limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest.. The indenture governing the Notes imposes, and the terms of any future indebtedness may impose, operating and other restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. Such restrictions affect, or will affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to:. • incur additional indebtedness;. • create liens;. • pay dividends and make other distributions in respect of our capital stock;. • redeem our capital stock;. • make investments or certain other restricted payments;. • sell certain kinds of assets;. 19. • enter into transactions with affiliates; and. • effect mergers or consolidations.. The restrictions contained in the indenture governing the Notes could:. • limit our ability to plan for or react to market or economic conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and. • adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest.. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the indenture governing the Notes. If an event of default occurs, the trustee and holders of the Notes could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. An event of default under the indenture governing the Notes would also constitute an event of default under our Credit Facility. See Footnote 3 \"Long-term Debt and Lease Obligations\" of the Footnotes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing below in this Form 10-K.. As a technology-focused company, we are continually exposed to risks related to complex, highly technical services and products.. We have made, and we will continue to make, strategic decisions from time to time as to the technologies in which we invest. If we choose the wrong technology, our financial results could be adversely impacted. Our operating results are dependent upon our ability to improve and refine our seismic imaging and data processing services and to successfully develop, manufacture and market our products and other services and products. New technologies generally require a substantial investment before any assurance is available as to their commercial viability. If we choose the wrong technology, or if our competitors develop or select a superior technology, we could lose our existing customers and be unable to attract new customers, which would harm our business and operations.. New data acquisition or processing technologies may be developed. New and enhanced services and products introduced by one of our competitors may gain market acceptance and, if not available to us, may adversely affect us.. The markets for our services and products are characterized by changing technology and new product introductions. We must invest substantial capital to develop and maintain a leading edge in technology, with no assurance that we will receive an adequate rate of return on those investments. If we are unable to develop and produce successfully and timely new or enhanced services and products, we will be unable to compete in the future and our business, our results of operations and our financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Our business could suffer from unexpected developments in technology, or from our failure to adapt to these changes. In addition, the preferences and requirements of customers can change rapidly.. The businesses of our E&P Technology & Services segment and Optimization Software & Services group within our E&P Operations Optimization segment, being more concentrated in software, processing services and proprietary technologies, have also exposed us to various risks that these technologies typically encounter, including the following:. • future competition from more established companies entering the market;. • technology obsolescence;. • dependence upon continued growth of the market for seismic data processing;. • the rate of change in the markets for these segments' technology and services;. • further consolidation of the participants within this market;. • research and development efforts not proving sufficient to keep up with changing market demands;. • dependence on third-party software for inclusion in these segments' services and products;. • misappropriation of these segments' technology by other companies;. • alleged or actual infringement of intellectual property rights that could result in substantial additional costs;. • difficulties inherent in forecasting sales for newly developed technologies or advancements in technologies;. • recruiting, training and retaining technically skilled, experienced personnel that could increase the costs for these segments, or limit their growth; and. • the ability to maintain traditional margins for certain of their technology or services.. 20. Seismic data acquisition and data processing technologies historically have progressed rather rapidly and we expect this progression to continue. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to invest additional capital to maintain, upgrade and expand our seismic data acquisition and processing capabilities. However, due to potential advances in technology and the related costs associated with such technological advances, we may not be able to fulfill this strategy, thus possibly affecting our ability to compete.. Our customers often require demanding specifications for performance and reliability of our services and products. Because many of our products are complex and often use unique advanced components, processes, technologies and techniques, undetected errors and design and manufacturing flaws may occur. Even though we attempt to assure that our systems are always reliable in the field, the many technical variables related to their operations can cause a combination of factors that can, and have from time to time, caused performance and service issues with certain of our products. Product defects result in higher product service, warranty and replacement costs and may affect our customer relationships and industry reputation, all of which may adversely impact our results of operations. Despite our testing and quality assurance programs, undetected errors may not be discovered until the product is purchased and used by a customer in a variety of field conditions. If our customers deploy our new products and they do not work correctly, our relationship with our customers may be materially and adversely affected.. As a result of our systems' advanced and complex nature, we expect to experience occasional operational issues from time to time. Generally, until our products have been tested in the field under a wide variety of operational conditions, we cannot be certain that performance and service problems will not arise. In that case, market acceptance of our new products could be delayed and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We also face exposure to product liability claims in the event that certain of our products, or certain components manufactured by others that are incorporated into our products, fail to perform to specification, which failure results, or is alleged to result, in property damage, bodily injury and/or death. Any product liability claims decided adversely against us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. While we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. In addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. Furthermore, even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and us.. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, significant sums of money in acquiring and processing seismic data for our E&P Technology & Services' multi-client data library, without knowing precisely how much of this seismic data we will be able to license or when and at what price we will be able to license the data sets. Our business could be adversely affected by the failure of our customers to fulfill their obligations to reimburse us for the underwritten portion of our seismic data acquisition costs for our multi-client library.. We invest significant amounts in acquiring and processing new seismic data to add to our E&P Technology & Services' multi-client data library. The costs of most of these investments are funded by our customers, with the remainder generally being recovered through future data licensing fees. In 2017, we invested approximately $23.7 million in our multi-client data library. Our customers generally commit to licensing the data prior to our initiating a new data library acquisition program. However, the aggregate amounts of future licensing fees for this data are uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, including the market prices of oil and gas, customer demand for seismic data in the library, and the availability of similar data from competitors.. By making these investments in acquiring and processing new seismic data for our E&P Technology & Services' multi-client library, we are exposed to the following risks:. • We may not fully recover our costs of acquiring and processing seismic data through future sales. The ultimate amounts involved in these data sales are uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control.. • The timing of these sales is unpredictable and can vary greatly from period to period. The costs of each survey are capitalized and then amortized as a percentage of sales and/or on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the data. This amortization will affect our earnings and, when combined with the sporadic nature of sales, will result in increased earnings volatility.. • Regulatory changes that affect companies' ability to drill, either generally or in a specific location where we have acquired seismic data, could materially adversely affect the value of the seismic data contained in our library. Technology changes could also make existing data sets obsolete. Additionally, each of our individual surveys has a limited book life based on its location and oil and gas companies' interest in prospecting for reserves in such location, so a particular survey may be subject to a significant decline in value beyond our initial estimates.. 21. • The value of our multi-client data could be significantly adversely affected if any material adverse change occurs in the general prospects for oil and gas exploration, development and production activities.. • The cost estimates upon which we base our pre-commitments of funding could be wrong. The result could be losses that have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. These pre-commitments of funding are subject to the creditworthiness of our clients. In the event that a client refuses or is unable to pay its commitment, we could incur a substantial loss on that project.. • As part of our asset-light strategy, we routinely charter vessels from third-party vendors to acquire seismic data for our multi-client business. As a result, our cost to acquire our multi-client data could significantly increase if vessel charter prices rise materially.. Reductions in demand for our seismic data, or lower revenues of or cash flows from our seismic data, may result in a requirement to increase amortization rates or record impairment charges in order to reduce the carrying value of our data library. These increases or charges, if required, could be material to our operating results for the periods in which they are recorded.. A substantial portion of our seismic acquisition project costs (including third-party project costs) are underwritten by our customers. In the event that underwriters for such projects fail to fulfill their obligations with respect to such underwriting commitments, we would continue to be obligated to satisfy our payment obligations to third-party contractors.. We derive a substantial amount of our revenues from foreign operations and sales, which pose additional risks.. The majority of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Sales to customer destinations outside of North America represented 76%, 78% and 66% of our consolidated net revenues for 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues. We believe that export sales will remain a significant percentage of our revenue. U.S. export restrictions affect the types and specifications of products we can export. Additionally, in order to complete certain sales, U.S. laws may require us to obtain export licenses, and we cannot assure you that we will not experience difficulty in obtaining these licenses.. Like many energy services companies, we have operations in and sales into certain international areas, including parts of the Middle East, West Africa, Latin America, India, Asia Pacific and the former Soviet Union, that are subject to risks of war, political disruption, civil disturbance, political corruption, possible economic and legal sanctions (such as possible restrictions against countries that the U.S. government may in the future consider to be state sponsors of terrorism) and changes in global trade policies. Our sales or operations may become restricted or prohibited in any country in which the foregoing risks occur. In particular, the occurrence of any of these risks could result in the following events, which in turn, could materially and adversely impact our results of operations:. • disruption of E&P activities;. • restriction on the movement and exchange of funds;. • inhibition of our ability to collect advances and receivables;. • enactment of additional or stricter U.S. government or international sanctions;. • limitation of our access to markets for periods of time;. • expropriation and nationalization of assets of our company or those of our customers;. • political and economic instability, which may include armed conflict and civil disturbance;. • currency fluctuations, devaluations and conversion restrictions;. • confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; and. • governmental actions that may result in the deprivation of our contractual rights.. Our international operations and sales increase our exposure to other countries' restrictive tariff regulations, other import/export restrictions and customer credit risk.. In addition, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions and the final determination of our tax liabilities involves the interpretation of the statutes and requirements of taxing authorities worldwide. Our tax returns are subject to routine examination by taxing authorities, and these examinations may result in assessments of additional taxes, penalties and/or interest.. 22. We may be unable to obtain broad intellectual property protection for our current and future products and we may become involved in intellectual property disputes; we rely on developing and acquiring proprietary data which we keep confidential.. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technologies. We believe that the technological and creative skill of our employees, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition and reliable product maintenance are the foundations of our competitive advantage. Although we have a considerable portfolio of patents, copyrights and trademarks, these property rights offer us only limited protection. Our competitors may attempt to copy aspects of our products despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, or may design around the proprietary features of our products. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult, and we are unable to determine the extent to which such use occurs. Our difficulties are compounded in certain foreign countries where the laws do not offer as much protection for proprietary rights as the laws of the United States.. Third parties inquire and claim from time to time that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Many of our competitors own their own extensive global portfolio of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property to protect their proprietary technologies. We believe that we have in place appropriate procedures and safeguards to help ensure that we do not violate a third party's intellectual property rights. However, no set of procedures and safeguards is infallible. We may unknowingly and inadvertently take action that is inconsistent with a third party's intellectual property rights, despite our efforts to do otherwise. Any such claims from third parties, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, result in injunctions, require product modifications, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Much of our litigation in recent years have involved disputes over our and others' rights to technology. See Item 3. \"Legal Proceedings.\". To protect the confidentiality of our proprietary and trade secret information, we require employees, consultants, contractors, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. Our customer data license and acquisition agreements also identify our proprietary, confidential information and require that such proprietary information be kept confidential. While these steps are taken to strictly maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary and trade secret information, it is difficult to ensure that unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure will not occur. If we are unable to maintain the secrecy of our proprietary, confidential information, we could be materially adversely affected.. If we do not effectively manage our transition into new services and products, our revenues may suffer.. Services and products for the geophysical industry are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance, software functionality and features, frequent introduction of new services and products, and improvement in price characteristics relative to product and service performance. Among the risks associated with the introduction of new services and products are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases or reductions in price of existing products in anticipation of new introductions, write-offs or write-downs of the carrying costs of inventory and raw materials associated with prior generation products, difficulty in predicting customer demand for new product and service offerings and effectively managing inventory levels so that they are in line with anticipated demand, risks associated with customer qualification, evaluation of new products, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application software. The introduction of new services and products by our competitors also may result in delays in customer purchases and difficulty in predicting customer demand. If we do not make an effective transition from existing services and products to future offerings, our revenues and margins may decline.. Furthermore, sales of our new services and products may replace sales, or result in discounting of some of our current product or service offerings, offsetting the benefits of a successful introduction. In addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new services and products in accordance with our revenue, margin and cost estimations and to achieve operational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. Given the competitive nature of the seismic industry, if any of these risks materializes, future demand for our services and products, and our future results of operations, may suffer.. 23. Global economic conditions and credit market uncertainties could have an adverse effect on customer demand for certain of our services and products, which in turn would adversely affect our results of operations, our cash flows, our financial condition and our stock price.. Historically, demand for our services and products has been sensitive to the level of exploration spending by E&P companies and geophysical contractors. The demand for our services and products will be lessened if exploration expenditures by E&P companies are reduced. During periods of reduced levels of exploration for oil and natural gas, there have been oversupplies of seismic data and downward pricing pressures on our seismic services and products, which, in turn, have limited our ability to meet sales objectives and maintain profit margins for our services and products. In the past, these then-prevailing industry conditions have had the effect of reducing our revenues and operating margins. The markets for oil and gas historically have been volatile and may continue to be so in the future.. Turmoil or uncertainty in the credit markets and its potential impact on the liquidity of major financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our business strategy through borrowings under either existing or new debt facilities in the public or private markets and on terms we believe to be reasonable. Likewise, there can be no assurance that our customers will be able to borrow money for their working capital or capital expenditures on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, which could have a negative impact on their demand for our services and products and impair their ability to pay us for our services and products on a timely basis, or at all.. Our sales have historically been affected by interest rate fluctuations and the availability of liquidity, and we and our customers would be adversely affected by increases in interest rates or liquidity constraints. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The loss of any significant customer or the inability of our customers to meet their payment obligations to us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is exposed to risks related to customer concentration. While no single customer represented 10% or more of our consolidated net revenues for 2016 and 2015; in 2017, we had one customer with sales that exceeded 10%.  Our top five customers together accounted for approximately 34%, 50% and 36%, of our consolidated net revenues during 2017, 2016 and 2015. The loss of any of our significant customers or deterioration in our relations with any of them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. During the last ten years, our traditional seismic contractor customers have been rapidly consolidating, thereby consolidating the demand for our services and products.  The loss of any of our significant customers to further consolidation could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is exposed to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment by our customers. Many of our customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Declines in commodity prices, and the credit markets could cause the availability of credit to be constrained.  The combination of lower cash flow due to commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and the lack of available debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in our customers' liquidity and ability to pay their obligations to us. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. The inability or failure of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our financial results.. Our stock price has been volatile from time to time, declining and increasing from time to time during the period from 2008 through the present, and it could decline again.. The securities markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility in recent years. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may continue to experience significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects or those of companies in our industry. In addition to the other risk factors discussed in this section, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by:. • operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;. • factors influencing the levels of global oil and natural gas exploration and exploitation activities, such as the decline in crude oil prices and depressed prices for natural gas in North America or disasters such as the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010;. • the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors or analysts consider comparable to us;. • actions by rating agencies related to the Notes;. • announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; and. 24. • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets.. To the extent that the price of our common stock declines, our ability to raise funds through the issuance of equity or otherwise use our common stock as consideration will be reduced. In addition, a low price for our equity may negatively impact our ability to access additional debt capital. These factors may limit our ability to implement our operating and growth plans.. Goodwill, intangible assets and multi-client data library that we have recorded are subject to impairment evaluations and, as a result, we could be required to write-off additional goodwill and intangible assets. In addition, portions of our products inventory may become obsolete or excessive due to future changes in technology, changes in market demand, or changes in market expectations. Write-downs of these assets may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In accordance with Accounting Standard Codification (\"ASC\") 350, \"Intangibles  -  Goodwill and Other\" (\"ASC 350\"), we are required to compare the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets (when certain impairment indicators under ASC 350 are present) to their carrying amount. If the fair value of such goodwill or intangible assets is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of these assets within the reporting units is less than their carrying value.. Reductions in or an impairment of the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets will result in additional charges against our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial position in future periods. At December 31, 2017, our remaining goodwill and other intangible asset balances were $24.1 million and $1.7 million, respectively.. Our services and products' technologies often change relatively quickly. Phasing out of old products involves estimating the amounts of inventories we need to hold to satisfy demand for those products and satisfy future repair part needs. Based on changing technologies and customer demand, we may find that we have either obsolete or excess inventory on hand. Because of unforeseen future changes in technology, market demand or competition, we might have to write off unusable inventory, which would adversely affect our results of operations.. Due to the international scope of our business activities, our results of operations may be significantly affected by currency fluctuations.. We derived approximately 76% of our 2017 consolidated net revenues from international sales, subjecting us to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the United States. Through our subsidiaries, we operate in a wide variety of jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom, Latin America, Australia, the Netherlands, Brazil, China, Canada, Russia, the United Arab Emirates, Egypt and other countries. Certain of these countries have experienced geopolitical instability, economic problems and other uncertainties from time to time. To the extent that world events or economic conditions negatively affect our future sales to customers in these and other regions of the world, or the collectability of receivables, our future results of operations, liquidity and financial condition may be adversely affected. To the extent that world events or economic conditions negatively affect our future sales to customers in many regions of the world, as well as the collectability of our existing receivables, our future results of operations, liquidity and financial condition would be adversely affected.. We currently require customers in certain higher risk countries to provide their own financing. We do not currently extend long-term credit through notes to companies in countries where we perceive excessive credit risk.. Our subsidiaries in the U.K. and in other foreign countries receive their income and pay their expenses primarily in their local currencies. To the extent that transactions of these subsidiaries are settled in their local currencies, a devaluation of those currencies versus the U.S. dollar could reduce the contribution from these subsidiaries to our consolidated results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars. For financial reporting purposes, such depreciation will negatively affect our reported results of operations since earnings denominated in foreign currencies would be converted to U.S. dollars at a decreased value. In addition, since we participate in competitive bids for sales of certain of our services and products that are denominated in U.S. dollars, a depreciation of the U.S. dollar against other currencies could harm our competitive position relative to other companies. While we periodically employ economic cash flow and fair value hedges to minimize the risks associated with these exchange rate fluctuations, the hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that fluctuations in the values of the currencies of countries in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our future results of operations.. 25. We rely on highly skilled personnel in our businesses, and if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to effectively operate our business.. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our businesses. Competition for qualified personnel required for our data processing operations and our other businesses has intensified in recent years. A well-trained, motivated and adequately-staffed work force has a positive impact on our ability to attract and retain business. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees.. However, from time to time, we have to rightsize our work force due to economic and market conditions.  We initiated workforce reductions in December 2014, continuing into 2016, and reduced our full-time employee base by approximately 60%, our workforce has since stabilized.. Certain of our facilities could be damaged by hurricanes and other natural disasters, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Certain of our facilities are located in regions of the United States that are susceptible to damage from hurricanes and other weather events, and, during 2005, were impacted by hurricanes or other weather events. Our Devices group leases 144,000 square feet of facilities located in Harahan, Louisiana, in the greater New Orleans metropolitan area. In late August 2005, we suspended operations at these facilities and evacuated and locked down the facilities in preparation for Hurricane Katrina. These facilities did not experience flooding or significant damage during or after the hurricane. However, because of employee evacuations, power failures and lack of related support services, utilities and infrastructure in the New Orleans area, we were unable to resume full operations at the facilities until late September 2005. In August 2017, we lost use of our offices located in the Houston metropolitan area for several days, as a result of Hurricane Harvey.. Future hurricanes or similar natural disasters that impact our facilities may negatively affect our financial position and operating results for those periods. These negative effects may include reduced production, product sales and data processing revenues; costs associated with resuming production; reduced orders for our services and products from customers that were similarly affected by these events; lost market share; late deliveries; additional costs to purchase materials and supplies from outside suppliers; uninsured property losses; inadequate business interruption insurance and an inability to retain necessary staff. To the extent that climate change increases the severity of hurricanes and other weather events, as some have suggested, it could worsen the severity of these negative effects on our financial position and operating results.. Our operations, and the operations of our customers, are subject to numerous government regulations, which could adversely limit our operating flexibility. Regulatory initiatives undertaken from time to time, such as restrictions, sanctions and embargoes, can adversely affect, and have adversely affected, our customers and our business.. In addition to the specific regulatory risks discussed elsewhere in this Item 1A. \"Risk Factors\" section, our operations are subject to other laws, regulations, government policies and product certification requirements worldwide. Changes in such laws, regulations, policies or requirements could affect the demand for our products or services or result in the need to modify our services and products, which may involve substantial costs or delays in sales and could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. Our export activities in particular are subject to extensive and evolving trade regulations. Certain countries (including Russia) are subject to restrictions, sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government. These restrictions, sanctions and embargoes also prohibit or limit us from participating in certain business activities in those countries. In addition, our operations are subject to numerous local, state and federal laws and regulations in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous materials, the remediation of contaminated properties, and the protection of the environment. These laws have been changed frequently in the past, and there can be no assurance that future changes will not have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, our customers' operations are also significantly impacted by laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment and endangered species. Consequently, changes in governmental regulations applicable to our customers may reduce demand for our services and products. To the extent that our customers' operations are disrupted by future laws and regulations, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. Offshore oil and gas exploration and development recently has been a regulatory focus. Future changes in laws or regulations regarding such activities, and decisions by customers, governmental agencies or other industry participants in response, could reduce demand for our services and products, which could have a negative impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We cannot reasonably or reliably estimate that such changes will occur, when they will occur, or whether they will impact us. Such changes can occur quickly within a region, which may impact both the affected region and global exploration and production, and we may not be able to respond quickly, or at all, to mitigate these changes. In addition, these future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions that may adversely affect the financial health of our customers and decrease the demand for our services and products.. 26. Existing or future laws and regulations related to greenhouse gases and climate change could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Changes in environmental requirements related to greenhouse gases and climate change may negatively impact demand for our services. For example, oil and natural gas exploration and production may decline as a result of environmental requirements. Local, state, and federal agencies have been evaluating climate-related legislation and other regulatory initiatives that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, existing or future laws and regulations related to greenhouse gases and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have a negative impact on our business if such laws or regulations reduce demand for oil and natural gas.. We have outsourcing arrangements with third parties to manufacture some of our products. If these third party suppliers fail to deliver quality products or components at reasonable prices on a timely basis, we may alienate some of our customers and our revenues, profitability and cash flow may decline. Additionally, current global economic conditions could have a negative impact on our suppliers, causing a disruption in our vendor supplies. A disruption in vendor supplies may adversely affect our results of operations.. Our manufacturing processes require us to purchase quality components.  In addition, we use contract manufacturers as an alternative to our own manufacturing of products. We have outsourced the manufacturing of our products, including our towed marine streamers, geophone manufacturing and ocean bottom cables.  Certain components used in our towed marine manufacturing operations are currently provided by a single supplier. Without these sole suppliers, we would be required to find other suppliers who could build these components for us, or set up to make these parts internally.  If, in implementing any outsource initiative, we are unable to identify contract manufacturers willing to contract with us on competitive terms and to devote adequate resources to fulfill their obligations to us or if we do not properly manage these relationships, our existing customer relationships may suffer. In addition, by undertaking these activities, we run the risk that the reputation and competitiveness of our services and products may deteriorate as a result of the reduction of our control over quality and delivery schedules. We also may experience supply interruptions, cost escalations and competitive disadvantages if our contract manufacturers fail to develop, implement, or maintain manufacturing methods appropriate for our products and customers.. Reliance on certain suppliers, as well as industry supply conditions, generally involves several risks, including the possibility of a shortage or a lack of availability of key components, increases in component costs and reduced control over delivery schedules. If any of these risks are realized, our revenues, profitability and cash flows may decline. In addition, the more we come to rely on contract manufacturers, we may have fewer personnel resources with expertise to manage problems that may arise from these third-party arrangements.. Additionally, our suppliers could be negatively impacted by current global economic conditions. If certain of our suppliers were to experience significant cash flow issues or become insolvent as a result of such conditions, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies to us or a significant increase in the price of such supplies and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.. Our business is subject to cybersecurity risks and threats.. Threats to our information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risk and cyber incidents or attacks continue to grow. It is also possible that breaches to our systems could go unnoticed for some period of time. Risks associated with these threats include, among other things, loss of intellectual property, impairment of our ability to conduct our operations, disruption of our customers' operations, loss or damage to our customer data delivery systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law and certain contractual obligations under our agreement with BGP contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us.. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law and the terms of our investor rights agreement with BGP may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for shares of our common stock. These provisions include:. • authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders;. • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered terms;. • requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;. • eliminating the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;. • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and. 27. • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. In addition, the terms of our INOVA Geophysical joint venture with BGP and BGP's investment in our company contain a number of provisions, such as certain pre-emptive rights granted to BGP with respect to certain future issuances of our stock, that could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of our company that our stockholders may otherwise consider to be favorable.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.. If, in the future, we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. Note: The foregoing factors pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 should not be construed as exhaustive. In addition to the foregoing, we wish to refer readers to other factors discussed elsewhere in this report as well as other filings and reports with the SEC for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to any such forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect the events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events."
