[1] "Item 1a.    Risk Factors. In addition to the other information in this report, you should consider carefully the following risk factors in evaluating an investment in the Company's securities. Any of these risks or the occurrence of any one or more of the uncertainties described below could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and market price of the Company's common stock. The risks set forth below speak only as of the date of this report and the Company disclaims any duty to update them except as required by law. For purposes of these risk factors, the terms \"our Company,\" \"we,\" \"our\" and \"us\" refer to iStar Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise.. Risks Related to Our Business. Changes in general economic conditions may adversely affect our business.. Our success is generally dependent upon economic conditions in the United States, and in particular, the geographic areas in which our investments are located. Substantially all businesses, including ours, were negatively affected by the previous economic recession and resulting illiquidity and volatility in the credit and commercial real estate markets. The commercial real estate and credit markets remain volatile and it is not possible for us to predict whether these trends will continue in the future or quantify the impact of these or other trends on our financial results. Deterioration in economic trends could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, liquidity and our ability to meet our debt obligations.. 17. Table of Contents. Our credit ratings will impact our borrowing costs.. Our borrowing costs and our access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. Our unsecured corporate credit ratings from major national credit rating agencies are currently below investment grade. Having below investment grade credit ratings increases our borrowing costs and caused restrictive covenants in our public debt instruments to become operative. These restrictive covenants are described below in \"Covenants in our indebtedness could limit our flexibility and adversely affect our financial condition.\" These factors have adversely impacted our financial performance and will continue to do so unless our credit ratings improve.. Covenants in our indebtedness could limit our flexibility and adversely affect our financial condition.. Our outstanding unsecured debt securities contain corporate level covenants that include a covenant to maintain a ratio of unencumbered assets to unsecured indebtedness of at least 1.2x and a restriction on debt incurrence based upon the effect of the debt incurrence on our fixed charge coverage ratio. If any of our covenants are breached and not cured within applicable cure periods, the breach could result in acceleration of our debt securities unless a waiver or modification is agreed upon with the requisite percentage of the bondholders. Limitations on our ability to incur new indebtedness under the fixed charge coverage ratio may limit the amount of new investments we make.. In March 2015, we entered into a secured revolving credit facility with a maximum capacity of $250.0 million (our \"2015 Secured Revolving Credit Facility\") and we upsized the facility to $325.0 million in September 2017 and added additional lenders to the syndicate. In June 2016, we entered into a senior secured credit facility with a maximum capacity of $450.0 million and in August 2016 we upsized the facility to $500.0 million (our \"2016 Senior Secured Credit Facility\"). In September 2017, we reduced the 2016 Senior Secured Credit Facility to $400.0 million. Our 2015 Secured Revolving Credit Facility and our 2016 Senior Secured Credit Facility contain certain covenants, including covenants relating to collateral coverage, dividend payments, restrictions on fundamental changes, transactions with affiliates, matters relating to the liens granted to the lenders and the delivery of information to the lenders. In particular, our 2016 Senior Secured Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain collateral coverage of at least 1.25x outstanding borrowings on the facility and our 2015 Secured Revolving Credit Facility requires us to maintain both collateral coverage of at least 1.5x outstanding borrowings on the facility and a consolidated ratio of cash flow to fixed charges of at least 1.5x. In addition, for so long as we maintain our qualification as a REIT, our 2016 Senior Secured Credit Facility and 2015 Secured Revolving Credit Facility permit us to distribute 100% of our REIT taxable income on an annual basis (prior to deducting certain cumulative net operating loss carryforwards). We may not pay common dividends if the Company ceases to qualify as a REIT.. Our 2016 Senior Secured Credit Facility and 2015 Secured Revolving Credit Facility contain cross default provisions that would allow the lenders to declare an event of default and accelerate our indebtedness to them if we fail to pay amounts due in respect of our other recourse indebtedness in excess of specified thresholds or if the lenders under such other indebtedness are otherwise permitted to accelerate such indebtedness for any reason. The indentures governing our unsecured public debt securities permit the bondholders to declare an event of default and accelerate our indebtedness to them if our other recourse indebtedness in excess of specified thresholds is not paid at final maturity or if such indebtedness is accelerated. A default by us on our indebtedness would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and the market price of our common stock.. We have significant indebtedness and funding commitments and limitations on our liquidity and ability to raise capital may adversely affect us.. Sufficient liquidity is critical to our ability to grow and to meet our scheduled debt payments and our funding commitments to borrowers. We have relied on proceeds from the issuance of unsecured debt, secured borrowings, repayments from our loan assets and proceeds from asset sales to fund our operations and meet our debt maturities, and we expect to continue to rely primarily on these sources of liquidity for the foreseeable future. While we had access to various sources of capital in 2017, our ability to access capital in 2018 and beyond will be subject to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, such as general economic conditions, changes in interest rates and conditions prevailing in the credit and real estate markets. There can be no assurance that we will have access to liquidity when needed or on terms that are acceptable to us. We may also encounter difficulty in selling assets or executing capital raising strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could impact our ability to make scheduled repayments on our outstanding debt. Failure to repay or refinance our borrowings as they come due would be an event of default under the relevant debt instruments, which could result in a cross default and acceleration of our other outstanding debt obligations. Failure to meet funding commitments could cause us to be in default of our financing commitments to borrowers. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and the market price of our common stock.. 18. Table of Contents. We may utilize derivative instruments to hedge risk, which may adversely affect our borrowing cost and expose us to other risks.. The derivative instruments we may use are typically in the form of interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and foreign exchange contracts. Interest rate swaps effectively change variable-rate debt obligations to fixed-rate debt obligations or fixed-rate debt obligations to variable-rate debt obligations. Interest rate caps limit our exposure to rising interest rates. Foreign exchange contracts limit or offset our exposure to changes in currency rates in respect of certain investments denominated in foreign currencies.. Our use of derivative instruments also involves the risk that a counterparty to a hedging arrangement could default on its obligation and the risk that we may have to pay certain costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs, if a hedging arrangement is terminated by us. As a matter of policy, we enter into hedging arrangements with counterparties that are large, creditworthy financial institutions typically rated at least \"A/A2\" by S&P and Moody's, respectively.. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates and foreign currencies is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. There can be no assurance that any hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition.. Significant increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results.. Our operating results depend in part on the difference between the interest and related income earned on our assets and the interest expense incurred in connection with our interest bearing liabilities. Changes in the general level of interest rates prevailing in the financial markets will affect the spread between our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities subject to the impact of interest rate floors and caps, as well as the amounts of floating rate assets and liabilities. Any significant compression of the spreads between interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities could have a material adverse effect on us. While interest rates remain low by historical standards, rates have recently risen and are generally expected to rise in the coming years, although there is no certainty as to the amount by which they may rise. In the event of a significant rising interest rate environment, rates could exceed the interest rate floors that exist on certain of our floating rate debt and create a mismatch between our floating rate loans and our floating rate debt that could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results. An increase in interest rates could also, among other things, reduce the value of our fixed-rate interest bearing assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets. In addition, rising interest rates tend to negatively impact the residential mortgage market, which in turn may adversely affect the value of and demand for our land assets, including our residential development projects. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control.. We are required to make a number of judgments in applying accounting policies, and different estimates and assumptions could result in changes to our financial condition and results of operations. The carrying values of our assets held for investment are not determined based upon the prices at which they could be sold currently.. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change underlie our determination of the reserve for loan losses, which is based primarily on the estimated fair value of loan collateral, as well as the valuation of real estate assets and deferred tax assets. While we have identified those accounting policies that are considered critical and have procedures in place to facilitate the associated judgments, different assumptions in the application of these policies could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and results of operations and actual results may differ materially from our estimates.. In addition, as discussed further in the notes to our consolidated financial statements, we record our real estate and land and development assets at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization.  If we hold a property for use or investment, we will only review it for impairment in value if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the property may not be recoverable, based on management's determination that the aggregate future cash flows to be generated by the asset (taking into account the anticipated holding period of the asset) is less than the carrying value. Management's estimates of cash flows considers factors such as expected future operating income trends, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other economic factors.  The carrying values of our real estate and land and development assets are not indicative of the prices at which we would be able to sell the properties, if we had to do so before the end of their intended holding period.  If we changed our investment intent and decided to sell a property that was being held for investment, including in distressed circumstances as a means of raising liquidity, there can be no assurance that we would not realize losses on such sales, which losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results, liquidity and the market price of our common stock.. Changes in accounting rules will affect our financial reporting.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") has issued new accounting standards that will affect our financial reporting.. 19. Table of Contents. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (\"ASU 2016-13\") which was issued to provide financial statement users with more decision-useful information about the expected credit losses on financial instruments held by a reporting entity. This amendment replaces the incurred loss impairment methodology in current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. ASU 2016-13 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018.  Management does not believe the guidance will have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (\"ASU 2016-02\"), which requires the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases. For operating leases, a lessee will be required to do the following: (i) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position; (ii) recognize a single lease cost, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term on a generally straight-line basis and (iii) classify all cash payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows. For operating lease arrangements for which the Company is the lessee, primarily the lease of office space, the Company expects the impact of ASU 2016-02 to be the recognition of a right-of-use asset and lease liability on its consolidated balance sheets. The accounting applied by the Company as a lessor will be largely unchanged from that applied under previous GAAP. However, in certain instances, a new long-term lease of land subsequent to adoption could be classified as a sales-type lease, which could result in the Company derecognizing the underlying asset from its books and recording a profit or loss on sale and the net investment in the lease. ASU 2016-02 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. Management is evaluating the impact of the guidance on the Company's consolidated financial statements.. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (\"ASU 2014-09\") which supersedes existing industry-specific guidance, including ASC 360-20, Real Estate Sales. The new standard is principles-based and requires more estimates and judgment than current guidance. Certain contracts with customers, including lease contracts and financial instruments and other contractual rights, are not within the scope of the new guidance. Although most of the Company's revenue is operating lease income generated from lease contracts and interest income generated from financial instruments, certain other of the Company's revenue streams will be impacted by the new guidance. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers - Deferral of the Effective Date, to defer the effective date of ASU 2014-09 by one year. ASU 2014-09 is now effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption was permitted beginning January 1, 2017. We will adopt ASU 2014-09 using the modified retrospective approach (refer to Note 3 for more information regarding the impact of ASU 2014-09).. Changes in accounting standards could affect the comparability of our reported results with prior periods and our ability to comply with financial covenants under our debt instruments.  We may also need to change our accounting systems and processes to enable us to comply with the new standards, which may be costly.. For additional information regarding new accounting standards, refer to Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements under the heading \"New accounting pronouncements.\". Our reserves for loan losses may prove inadequate, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. We maintain loan loss reserves to offset potential future losses. Our general loan loss reserve reflects management's then-current estimation of the probability and severity of losses within our portfolio. In addition, our determination of asset-specific loan loss reserves relies on material estimates regarding the fair value of loan collateral. Estimation of ultimate loan losses, provision expenses and loss reserves is a complex and subjective process. As such, there can be no assurance that management's judgment will prove to be correct and that reserves will be adequate over time to protect against potential future losses. Such losses could be caused by factors including, but not limited to, unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific assets, borrowers, industries in which our borrowers operate or markets in which our borrowers or their properties are located. In particular, during the previous financial crisis, the weak economy and disruption of the credit markets adversely impacted the ability and willingness of many of our borrowers to service their debt and refinance our loans to them at maturity. If our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate we may suffer additional losses which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, liquidity and the market price of our common stock.. We have suffered losses when a borrower defaults on a loan and the underlying collateral value is not sufficient, and we may suffer additional losses in the future.. We have suffered losses arising from borrower defaults on our loan assets and we may suffer additional losses in the future. In the event of a default by a borrower on a non-recourse loan, we will only have recourse to the real estate-related assets collateralizing the loan. If the underlying collateral value is less than the loan amount, we will suffer a loss. Conversely, we. 20. Table of Contents. sometimes make loans that are unsecured or are secured only by equity interests in the borrowing entities. These loans are subject to the risk that other lenders may be directly secured by the real estate assets of the borrower. In the event of a default, those collateralized lenders would have priority over us with respect to the proceeds of a sale of the underlying real estate. In cases described above, we may lack control over the underlying asset collateralizing our loan or the underlying assets of the borrower prior to a default, and as a result the value of the collateral may be reduced by acts or omissions by owners or managers of the assets.. We sometimes obtain individual or corporate guarantees from borrowers or their affiliates. In cases where guarantees are not fully or partially secured, we typically rely on financial covenants from borrowers and guarantors which are designed to require the borrower or guarantor to maintain certain levels of creditworthiness. Where we do not have recourse to specific collateral pledged to satisfy such guarantees or recourse loans, or where the value of the collateral proves insufficient, we will only have recourse as an unsecured creditor to the general assets of the borrower or guarantor, some or all of which may be pledged to satisfy other lenders. There can be no assurance that a borrower or guarantor will comply with its financial covenants, or that sufficient assets will be available to pay amounts owed to us under our loans and guarantees. As a result of these factors, we may suffer additional losses which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, liquidity and the market price of our common stock.. In the event of a borrower bankruptcy, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the borrower in order to satisfy our loan. In addition, certain of our loans are subordinate to other debts of the borrower. If a borrower defaults on our loan or on debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt receives payment. Where debt senior to our loan exists, the presence of intercreditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies (through \"standstill\" periods) and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to borrowers. Bankruptcy and borrower litigation can significantly increase collection costs and losses and the time necessary to acquire title to the underlying collateral, during which time the collateral may decline in value, causing us to suffer additional losses.. If the value of collateral underlying our loan declines or interest rates increase during the term of our loan, a borrower may not be able to obtain the necessary funds to repay our loan at maturity through refinancing. Decreasing collateral value and/or increasing interest rates may hinder a borrower's ability to refinance our loan because the underlying property cannot satisfy the debt service coverage requirements necessary to obtain new financing. If a borrower is unable to repay our loan at maturity, we could suffer additional loss which may adversely impact our financial performance.. We are subject to additional risks associated with loan participations.. Some of our loans are participation interests or co-lender arrangements in which we share the rights, obligations and benefits of the loan with other lenders. We may need the consent of these parties to exercise our rights under such loans, including rights with respect to amendment of loan documentation, enforcement proceedings in the event of default and the institution of, and control over, foreclosure proceedings. Similarly, a majority of the participants may be able to take actions to which we object but to which we will be bound if our participation interest represents a minority interest. We may be adversely affected by this lack of full control.. We are subject to additional risk associated with owning and developing real estate.. We own a number of assets that previously served as collateral on defaulted loans. These assets are predominantly land and development assets and operating properties. These assets expose us to additional risks, including, without limitation:. • We must incur costs to carry these assets and in some cases make repairs to defects in construction, make improvements to, or complete the assets, which requires additional liquidity and results in additional expenses that could exceed our original estimates and impact our operating results.. • Real estate projects are not liquid and, to the extent we need to raise liquidity through asset sales, we may be limited in our ability to sell these assets in a short-time frame.. • Uncertainty associated with economic conditions, rezoning, obtaining governmental permits and approvals, concerns of community associations, reliance on third party contractors, increasing commodity costs and threatened or pending litigation may materially delay our completion of rehabilitation and development activities and materially increase their cost to us.. • The values of our real estate investments are subject to a number of factors outside of our control, including changes in the general economic climate, changes in interest rates and the availability of attractive financing, over-building or decreasing demand in the markets where we own assets, and changes in law and governmental regulations.. 21. Table of Contents. The residential market has experienced significant downturns that could recur and adversely affect us.. As of December 31, 2017, we owned land and residential condominiums with a net carrying value of $908.8 million. The housing market in the United States has previously been affected by weakness in the economy, high unemployment levels and low consumer confidence. It is possible another downturn could occur again in the near future and adversely impact our portfolio, and accordingly our financial performance. In addition, rising interest rates tend to negatively impact the residential mortgage market, which in turn may adversely affect the value of and demand for our land assets including our residential development projects.. We may experience losses if the creditworthiness of our tenants deteriorates and they are unable to meet their lease obligations.. We own properties leased to tenants of our real estate assets and receive rents from tenants during the contracted term of such leases. A tenant's ability to pay rent is determined by its creditworthiness, among other factors. If a tenant's credit deteriorates, the tenant may default on its obligations under our lease and may also become bankrupt. The bankruptcy or insolvency of our tenants or other failure to pay is likely to adversely affect the income produced by our real estate assets. If a tenant defaults, we may experience delays and incur substantial costs in enforcing our rights as landlord. If a tenant files for bankruptcy, we may not be able to evict the tenant solely because of such bankruptcy or failure to pay. A court, however, may authorize a tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. In such a case, our claim against the tenant for unpaid, future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent owed under the lease. In addition, certain amounts paid to us within 90 days prior to the tenant's bankruptcy filing could be required to be returned to the tenant's bankruptcy estate. In any event, it is highly unlikely that a bankrupt or insolvent tenant would pay in full amounts it owes us under a lease that it intends to reject. In other circumstances, where a tenant's financial condition has become impaired, we may agree to partially or wholly terminate the lease in advance of the termination date in consideration for a lease termination fee that is likely less than the total contractual rental amount. Without regard to the manner in which the lease termination occurs, we are likely to incur additional costs in the form of tenant improvements and leasing commissions in our efforts to lease the space to a new tenant. In any of the foregoing circumstances, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected.. We are subject to risks relating to our asset concentration.. Our portfolio consists primarily of real estate and commercial real estate loans which are generally diversified by asset type, obligor, property type and geographic location. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 22% of the gross carrying value of our assets related to land and development properties, 20% related to office properties, 12% related to mixed collateral properties,  12% related to entertainment/leisure collateral properties and 11% related to condominium properties. All of these property types were adversely affected by the previous economic recession. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, approximately 36% of the carrying value of our assets related to properties located in the northeastern United States (including 22% in New York), 18% related to properties located in the western United States (including 12% in California), 16% related to properties located in the southeastern United States and 13% related to properties located in the southwestern United States. These regions include areas that were particularly hard hit by the prior downturn in the residential real estate markets. In addition, we have $9.2 million of international assets, which are subject to increased risks due to the economic uncertainty abroad. We may suffer additional losses on our assets due to these concentrations.. We underwrite the credit of prospective borrowers and tenants and often require them to provide some form of credit support such as corporate guarantees, letters of credit and/or cash security deposits. Although our loans and real estate assets are geographically diverse and the borrowers and tenants operate in a variety of industries, to the extent we have a significant concentration of interest or operating lease revenues from any single borrower or customer, the inability of that borrower or tenant to make its payment could have a material adverse effect on us. As of December 31, 2017, our five largest borrowers or tenants of net lease assets collectively accounted for approximately 15.0% of our 2017 revenues, of which no single customer accounts for more than 5.7%.. Lease expirations, lease defaults and lease terminations may adversely affect our revenue.. Lease expirations and lease terminations may result in reduced revenues if the lease payments received from replacement tenants are less than the lease payments received from the expiring or terminating corporate tenants. In addition, lease defaults or lease terminations by one or more significant tenants or the failure of tenants under expiring leases to elect to renew their leases could cause us to experience long periods of vacancy with no revenue from a facility and to incur substantial capital expenditures and/or lease concessions in order to obtain replacement tenants. Leases representing approximately 27.4% of our in-place operating lease income are scheduled to expire during the next five years.. 22. Table of Contents. We compete with a variety of financing and leasing sources for our customers.. The financial services industry and commercial real estate markets are highly competitive and have become more competitive in recent years. Our competitors include finance companies, other REITs, commercial banks and thrift institutions, investment banks and hedge funds, among others. Our competitors may seek to compete aggressively on a number of factors including transaction pricing, terms and structure. We may have difficulty competing to the extent we are unwilling to match our competitors' deal terms in order to maintain our interest margins and/or credit standards. To the extent that we match competitors' pricing, terms or structure, we may experience decreased interest margins and/or increased risk of credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, liquidity and the market price of our common stock.. We face significant competition within our net leasing business from other owners, operators and developers of properties, many of which own properties similar to ours in markets where we operate. Such competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and reduce the rents we are able to charge. These competing properties may have vacancy rates higher than our properties, which may result in their owners offering lower rental rates than we would or providing greater tenant improvement allowances or other leasing concessions. This combination of circumstances could adversely affect our revenues and financial performance.. We are subject to certain risks associated with investing in real estate, including potential liabilities under environmental laws and risks of loss from weather conditions, man-made or natural disasters, climate change and terrorism.. Under various U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner of real estate (including, in certain circumstances, a secured lender that succeeds to ownership or control of a property) may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances at, on, under or in its property. Those laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or control party knew of or was responsible for the release or presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial. The owner or control party of a site may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from a site. Certain environmental laws also impose liability in connection with the handling of or exposure to asbestos-containing materials, pursuant to which third parties may seek recovery from owners of real properties for personal injuries associated with asbestos-containing materials. While a secured lender is not likely to be subject to these forms of environmental liability, when we foreclose on real property, we become an owner and are subject to the risks of environmental liability. Additionally, our net lease assets require our tenants to undertake the obligation for environmental compliance and indemnify us from liability with respect thereto. There can be no assurance that our tenants will have sufficient resources to satisfy their obligations to us.. Weather conditions and man-made or natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, floods, droughts, fires and other environmental conditions can damage properties we own. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 18% of the carrying value of our assets was located in the western and northwestern United States, geographic areas at higher risk for earthquakes. Additionally, we own properties located near the coastline and the value of our properties will potentially be subject to the risks associated with long-term effects of climate change. A significant number of our properties are located in major urban areas which, in recent years, have been high risk geographical areas for terrorism and threats of terrorism. Certain forms of terrorism including, but not limited to, nuclear, biological and chemical terrorism, political risks, environmental hazards and/or Acts of God may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our insurance policies or may be uninsurable or cost prohibitive to justify insuring against.  Furthermore, if the U.S. Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act is repealed or not extended or renewed upon its expiration, the cost for terrorism insurance coverage may increase and/or the terms, conditions, exclusions, retentions, limits and sublimits of such insurance may be materially amended, and may effectively decrease the scope and availability of such insurance to the point where it is effectively unavailable. Future weather conditions, man-made or natural disasters, effects of climate change or acts of terrorism could adversely impact the demand for, and value of, our assets and could also directly impact the value of our assets through damage, destruction or loss, and could thereafter materially impact the availability or cost of insurance to protect against these events. Although we believe our owned real estate and the properties collateralizing our loan assets are adequately covered by insurance, we cannot predict at this time if we or our borrowers will be able to obtain appropriate coverage at a reasonable cost in the future, or if we will be able to continue to pass along all of the costs of insurance to our tenants. Any weather conditions, man-made or natural disasters, terrorist attack or effect of climate change, whether or not insured, could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, liquidity and the market price of our common stock. In addition, there is a risk that one or more of our property insurers may not be able to fulfill their obligations with respect to claims payments due to a deterioration in its financial condition.. 23. Table of Contents. From time to time we make investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. Some of these companies operate in industries that differ from our current operations, with different risks than investing in real estate.. From time to time we make debt or equity investments in other companies that we may not control or over which we may not have sole control. Although these businesses generally have a significant real estate component, some of them may operate in businesses that are different from our primary business segments. Consequently, investments in these businesses, among other risks, subject us to the operating and financial risks of industries other than real estate and to the risk that we do not have sole control over the operations of these businesses.. From time to time we may make additional investments in or acquire other entities that may subject us to similar risks. Investments in entities over which we do not have sole control, including joint ventures, present additional risks such as having differing objectives than our partners or the entities in which we invest, or becoming involved in disputes, or competing with those persons. In addition, we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may adversely affect us.. Declines in the market values of our equity investments may adversely affect periodic reported results.. Most of our equity investments are in funds or companies that are not publicly traded and their fair value may not be readily determinable. We may periodically estimate the fair value of these investments, based upon available information and management's judgment. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, they may fluctuate over short periods of time. In addition, our determinations regarding the fair value of these investments may be materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon their disposal, which could result in losses that have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends.. Quarterly results may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future quarterly performance.. Our quarterly operating results could fluctuate; therefore, reliance should not be placed on past quarterly results as indicative of our performance in future quarters. Factors that could cause quarterly operating results to fluctuate include, among others, variations in loan and real estate portfolio performance, levels of non-performing assets and related provisions, market values of investments, costs associated with debt, general economic conditions, the state of the real estate and financial markets and the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets.. Our ability to retain and attract key personnel is critical to our success.. Our success depends on our ability to retain our senior management and the other key members of our management team and recruit additional qualified personnel. We rely in part on equity compensation to retain and incentivize our personnel. In addition, if members of our management join competitors or form competing companies, the competition could have a material adverse effect on our business. Efforts to retain or attract professionals may result in additional compensation expense, which could affect our financial performance.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers, and damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may change certain of our policies without stockholder approval.. Our charter does not set forth specific percentages of the types of investments we may make. We can amend, revise or eliminate our investment financing and conflict of interest policies at any time at our discretion without a vote of our shareholders. A change in these policies could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, liquidity and the market price of our common stock.. 24. Table of Contents. Certain provisions in our charter may inhibit a change in control.. Generally, to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares of stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of our taxable year. The Code defines \"individuals\" for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include some types of entities. Under our charter, no person may own more than 9.8% of our outstanding shares of stock, with some exceptions. The restrictions on transferability and ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change in control or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the security holders.. We would be subject to adverse consequences if we fail to qualify as a REIT.. We believe that we have been organized and operated in a manner so as to qualify for taxation as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1998. Our qualification as a REIT, however, has depended and will continue to depend on our ability to meet various requirements concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding stock, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amount of our distributions to our shareholders.  Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to manage successfully the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. Our ability to satisfy these asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization of our assets for U.S. federal income tax purposes and fair market values of our assets. The fair market values of certain of our assets are not susceptible to a precise determination.. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our shareholders in computing our net taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, including, for taxable years prior to 2018, any applicable alternative minimum tax on our net taxable income at regular corporate rates and applicable state and local taxes. We would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four subsequent taxable years following the year during which our REIT qualification was lost unless we were entitled to relief under certain Code provisions and obtained a ruling from the IRS. If disqualified and unable to obtain relief, we may need to borrow money or sell assets to pay taxes. As a result, cash available for distribution would be reduced for each of the years involved. Furthermore, it is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our REIT qualification to be revoked. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock.. Our 2016 Senior Secured Credit Facility and 2015 Secured Revolving Credit Facility (see Item 8 - \"Financial Statements and Supplemental Data - Note 10\") prohibit us from paying dividends on our common stock if we no longer qualify as a REIT.. To qualify as a REIT, we may be forced to borrow funds, sell assets or take other actions during unfavorable market conditions.. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding net capital gains each year, and we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax, as well as applicable state and local taxes, to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years.. In the event that principal, premium or interest payments with respect to a particular debt instrument that we hold are not made when due, we may nonetheless be required to continue to recognize the unpaid amounts as taxable income. In addition, we may be allocated taxable income in excess of cash flow received from some of our partnership investments. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, we will generally be required to take certain amounts into income no later than the time such amounts are reflected on our financial statements (this rule will apply to debt instruments issued with original issue discount for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2018). Also, in certain circumstances our ability to deduct interest expenses for U.S. federal income tax purposes may be limited. From these and other potential timing differences between income recognition or expense deduction and cash receipts or disbursements, there is a significant risk that we may have substantial taxable income in excess of cash available for distribution. In order to qualify as a REIT and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds or take other actions to meet our REIT distribution requirements for the taxable year in which the phantom income is recognized.. Complying with the REIT requirements may cause us to forego and/or liquidate otherwise attractive investments.. In order to meet the income, asset and distribution tests under the REIT rules, we may be required to take or forego certain actions.  For instance, we may not be able to make certain investments and we may have to liquidate other investments.  In addition, we may be required to make distributions to shareholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders.. 25. Table of Contents. Certain of our business activities may potentially be subject to the prohibited transaction tax, which could reduce the return on your investment.. For so long as we qualify as a REIT, our ability to dispose of certain properties may be restricted under the REIT rules, which generally impose a 100% penalty tax on any gain recognized on \"prohibited transactions,\" which refers to the disposition of property that is deemed to be inventory or held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our business, subject to certain exceptions. Whether property is inventory or otherwise held primarily for sale depends on the particular facts and circumstances. The Code provides a safe harbor that, if met, allows a REIT to avoid being treated as engaged in a prohibited transaction.  No assurance can be given that any property that we sell will not be treated as property held for sale to customers, or that we can comply with the safe harbor. The 100% tax does not apply to gains from the sale of foreclosure property or to property that is held through a taxable REIT subsidiary (\"TRS\") or other taxable corporation, although such income will be subject to tax in the hands of the corporation at regular corporate rates. We intend to structure our activities to avoid prohibited transaction characterization.. Certain of our activities, including our use of TRSs, are subject to taxes that could reduce our cash flows.. Even if we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay some U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. taxes on our income and property, including taxes on any undistributed income, taxes on income from certain activities conducted as a result of foreclosures, and property and transfer taxes. We would be required to pay taxes on net taxable income that we fail to distribute to our shareholders. In addition, we may be required to limit certain activities that generate non-qualifying REIT income, such as land development and sales of condominiums, and/or we may be required to conduct such activities through TRS. We hold a significant amount of assets in our TRS, including assets that we have acquired through foreclosure, assets that may be treated as dealer property and other assets that could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT if held at the REIT level. As a result, we will be required to pay income taxes on the taxable income generated by these assets. Furthermore, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax to the extent our economic arrangements with our TRS are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties. We will also be subject to a 100% tax to the extent we derive income from the sale of assets to customers in the ordinary course of business other than through our TRS. To the extent we or our TRS are required to pay U.S. federal, state, local or non-U.S. taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to our shareholders.. We have substantial net operating loss carry forwards which we use to offset our tax and distribution requirements. We fully utilized our net capital loss carry forward during the year ended December 31, 2017.  Net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 will only be able to offset 80% of our net taxable income (prior to the application of the dividends paid deduction) and may not be carried back. In the event that we experience an \"ownership change\" for purposes of Section 382 of the Code, our ability to use these losses will be limited. An \"ownership change\" is determined through a set of complex rules which track the changes in ownership that occur in our common stock for a trailing three year period. We have experienced volatility and significant trading in our common stock in recent years. The occurrence of an ownership change is generally beyond our control and, if triggered, may increase our tax and distribution obligations for which we may not have sufficient cash flow.. A failure to comply with the limits on our ownership of and relationship with our TRS would jeopardize our REIT qualification and may result in the application of a 100% excise tax.. No more than 20% (25% for taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008 and before December 31, 2017) of the value of a REIT's total assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRS. This requirement limits the extent to which we can conduct activities through TRS or expand the activities that we conduct through TRS. The values of some of our assets, including assets that we hold through TRSs may not be subject to precise determination, and values are subject to change in the future. In addition, we hold certain mortgage and mezzanine loans within one or more of our TRS that are secured by real property. We treat these loans as qualifying assets for purposes of the REIT asset tests to the extent that such mortgage loans are secured by real property and such mezzanine loans are secured by an interest in a limited liability company that holds real property. We received from the IRS a private letter ruling which holds that we may exclude such loans from the limitation that securities from TRS must constitute no more than 20% (25% for taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008 and before December 31, 2017) of our total assets. We are entitled to rely upon this private letter ruling only to the extent that we did not misstate or omit a material fact in the ruling request and that we continue to operate in accordance with the material facts described in such request, and no assurance can be given that we will always be able to do so.  To the extent that any loan is recharacterized as equity, it would increase the amount of non-real estate securities that we have in our TRS and could adversely affect our ability to meet the limitation described above.  If we were not able to exclude such loans to our TRS from the limitation described above, our ability to meet the REIT asset tests and other REIT requirements could be adversely affected. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we have met or will be able to continue to comply with the TRS limitation.. 26. Table of Contents. In addition, we may from time to time need to make distributions from a TRS in order to keep the value of our TRS below the TRS limitation. TRS dividends, however, generally will not constitute qualifying income for purposes of the 75% REIT gross income test. While we will monitor our compliance with both this income test and the limitation on the percentage of our total assets represented by TRS securities, and intend to conduct our affairs so as to comply with both, the two may at times be in conflict with one another. For example, it is possible that we may wish to distribute a dividend from a TRS in order to reduce the value of our TRS to comply with limitation, but we may be unable to do so without simultaneously violating the 75% REIT gross income test.. Although there are other measures we can take in such circumstances to remain in compliance with the requirements for REIT qualification, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with both of these tests in all market conditions.. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates on dividend income from C corporations, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock.. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for certain qualified dividends payable by C corporations to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced qualified dividend rate. However, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026, under the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, noncorporate taxpayers may deduct up to 20% of certain qualified business income, including \"qualified REIT dividends\" (generally, dividends received by a REIT shareholder that are not designated as capital gain dividends or qualified dividend income), subject to certain limitations, resulting in an effective maximum U.S. federal income tax rate of 29.6% on such income. Although the reduced U.S. federal income tax rate applicable to qualified dividends from C corporations does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends, together with the recently reduced corporate tax rate (21%), could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common stock.. Legislative or regulatory tax changes related to REITs could materially and adversely affect us.. The U.S. federal income tax laws and regulations governing REITs and their stockholders, as well as the administrative interpretations of those laws and regulations, are constantly under review and may be changed at any time, possibly with retroactive effect. No assurance can be given as to whether, when, or in what form, the U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to us and our stockholders may be enacted. Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations of U.S. federal tax laws could adversely affect an investment in our common stock.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was signed into law on December 22, 2017, made significant changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to businesses and their owners, including REITs and their stockholders. Certain key provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could impact the Company and its stockholders, beginning in 2018, including the following:. • Reduced Tax Rates. The highest individual U.S. federal income tax rate on ordinary income is reduced from 39.6% to 37% (through taxable years ending in 2025), and the maximum corporate income tax rate is reduced from 35% to 21%.  In addition, individuals, trust, and estates that own the Company's stock are permitted to deduct up to 20% of dividends received from the Company (other than dividends that are designated as capital gain dividends or qualified dividend income), generally resulting in an effective maximum U.S. federal income tax rate of 29.6% on such dividends (through taxable years ending in 2025). Further, the amount that the Company is required to withhold on distributions to non-U.S. stockholders that are treated as attributable to gains from the Company's sale or exchange of U.S. real property interests is reduced from 35% to 21%.. • Net Operating Losses. The Company may not use net operating losses generated beginning in 2018 to offset more than 80% of the Company's taxable income (prior to the application of the dividends paid deduction).  Net operating losses generated beginning in 2018 can be carried forward indefinitely but can no longer be carried back.. • Limitation on Interest Deductions. The amount of net interest expense that each of the Company and its TRSs may deduct for a taxable year is limited to the sum of (i) the taxpayer's business interest income for the taxable year, and (ii) 30% of the taxpayer's \"adjusted taxable income\" for the taxable year.  For taxable years beginning before January 1, 2022, adjusted taxable income means earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (\"EBITDA\"); for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2022, adjusted taxable income is limited to earnings before interest and taxes (\"EBIT\").  Certain electing businesses, including electing real estate businesses, may elect out of the foregoing limitation.. • Alternative Minimum Tax.  The corporate alternative minimum tax is eliminated.. 27. Table of Contents. • Income Accrual.  The Company is required to recognize certain items of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes no later than the Company would report such items on its financial statements. As discussed in Item 1a-Risk factors-\"To qualify as a REIT, we may be forced to borrow funds, sell assets or take other actions during unfavorable market conditions\", earlier recognition of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes could impact the Company's ability to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements. This provision generally applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, but will apply with respect to income from a debt instrument having \"original issue discount\" for U.S. federal income tax purposes only for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2018.. Prospective investors are urged to consult with their tax advisors regarding the effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act or other legislative, regulatory or administrative developments on an investment in the Company's common stock.. Our Investment Company Act exemption limits our investment discretion and loss of the exemption would adversely affect us.. We believe that we currently are not, and we intend to operate our company so that we will not be, regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act because we are \"primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.\" Specifically, we are required to invest at least 55% of our assets in \"qualifying real estate assets\" (that is, real estate, mortgage loans and other qualifying interests in real estate), and at least 80% of our assets in \"qualifying real estate assets\" and other \"real estate-related assets\" (such as mezzanine loans and unsecured investments in real estate entities) combined.. We will need to monitor our assets to ensure that we continue to satisfy the percentage tests. Maintaining our exemption from regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act limits our ability to invest in assets that otherwise would meet our investment strategies. If we fail to qualify for this exemption, we could not operate our business efficiently under the regulatory scheme imposed on investment companies under the Investment Company Act, and we could be required to restructure our activities. This would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and the market price of our securities.. Actions of the U.S. government, including the U.S. Congress, Federal Reserve, U.S. Treasury and other governmental and regulatory bodies, to stabilize or reform the financial markets, or market responses to those actions, may not achieve the intended effect and may adversely affect our business.. The U.S government, including the U.S. Congress, the Federal Reserve, the U.S Treasury and other governmental and regulatory bodies have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial industry in recent years. A changing presidential administration is likely to effect its own regulatory changes. New or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial industry. Laws, regulations or policies, including tax laws and accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may also be adversely affected by future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement.. Various legislative bodies have also considered altering the existing framework governing creditors' rights and mortgage products including legislation that would result in or allow loan modifications of various sorts. Such legislation may change the operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it or any regulations would have on our activities, financial condition, or results of operations."
