[1] "ITEM 1A  -  RISK FACTORS. In addition to the information set forth at the beginning of Management's Discussion and Analysis entitled \"Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information,\" you should consider that there are numerous and varied risks, known and unknown, that may prevent us from achieving our goals.  If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation may be materially and adversely affected.  In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of their investment.  These risk factors may not identify all risks that we face and our operations could also be affected by factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations.. Risks Related to our Business and Industry. We have a history of annual net losses, expect future losses and cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability.. We have incurred significant net losses and negative cash flow from operations for most periods since our inception, which has resulted in a total accumulated deficit of $47,277,420 as of December 31, 2017.  For the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, we had a net loss of $5,467,699, including a $5,476,236 loss from operations and we expect to incur a net loss for the fiscal year 2018.  Although our revenue has increased since inception, we have not achieved profitability and cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain these growth rates or realize sufficient revenue to achieve profitability.  If we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain it.. If we fail to retain existing customers or add new customers, our revenue and business will be harmed.. We depend on our ability to attract and retain customers that are prepared to offer products or services on compelling terms through IZEAx. Additionally, we rely on customers who purchase direct custom content from our creators in our platforms.  We must continue to attract and retain customers in order to increase revenue and achieve profitability.  We had no customer that accounted for more than 10% of our revenue during the twelve months ended December 31, 2017, one customer that accounted for 11% of our revenue during the twelve months ended December 31, 2016, and one customer that accounted for 12% of our revenue during the twelve months ended December 31, 2015.. The loss of customers or a significant reduction in revenue from our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation.  Moreover, if customers do not find our marketing and promotional services effective, if they are not satisfied with content they receive, or if they do not believe that utilizing our platforms provides them with a long-term increase in value, revenue or profit, they may stop using our platforms or managed services.  In addition, we may experience attrition in our customers in the ordinary course of business resulting from several factors, including losses to competitors, mergers, closures or bankruptcies. If we are unable to attract new customers in numbers sufficient to grow our business, or if too many customers are unwilling to offer products or services with compelling terms to our creators through our platforms or if too many large customers seek extended payment terms, our operating results will be adversely affected.. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and this or other material weaknesses, or inadequate remediation measures, could impair our ability to report accurate financial information in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act). As disclosed in Item 9A. \"Controls and Procedures\", our management identified a material weakness relating to the error in our presentation of revenues and classification of expenses in our consolidated statements of operations. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of this material weakness, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2017, based on the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013). If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and may not be available in a timely manner and we could be required to restate our financial statements which could lead to substantial additional costs for accounting and legal fees.. We make numerous estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies and these estimates create complexity in our accounting.  If our accounting is erroneous or based on assumptions that change or prove to be. 10. Table of Contents. incorrect, our operating results could change from investor expectations, which could cause our stock price to fall.. We are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP.  We use significant judgments, assumptions and estimates in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements including those related to revenue recognition, stock­ based compensation, credit risk, and values surrounding software development and intangible assets and their economic useful lives.. Various factors contribute to complexity in our accounting. For example, the recognition of our revenue is governed by certain criteria that determine whether we report revenue either on a gross basis, as a principal, or net basis, as an agent, depending upon the nature of the sales transaction. We have historically reported all our revenue on a gross basis because we concluded that we were a principal in all our transactions.  In connection with our year-end financial statement close process and preparation of this Annual Report, we determined that we were more appropriately considered an agent in our Content Workflow transactions which resulted in a lower reported GAAP revenue and related cost of revenue. We continue to report our revenue on a gross basis for the Managed Services portion of our business where we have the performance obligation to provide content, sponsored social or other services to our customers. Changes in how we control and manage  our platforms, our contractual terms, our business practices, or other changes in accounting standards or interpretations, may change the reporting of our revenue on a gross to net or net to gross basis.  As a result, we may experience significant fluctuations in our revenue depending on the nature of our sales and our reporting of such revenue and related accounting treatment, without any change in our underlying business or net income.  Our guidance or estimates about the combination of gross or net revenue are based upon the volumes and characteristics that we believe will be the mix of revenue during the period. Those estimates and assumptions may be inaccurate when made, or may be rendered inaccurate by subsequent changes in circumstances, such as changing the characteristics of our offerings or particular transactions in response to client demands, market developments, regulatory pressures, acquisitions, and other factors. Even apparently minor changes in transaction terms from those initially envisioned can result in different accounting conclusions from those foreseen. In addition, we may incorrectly extrapolate from revenue recognition treatment of prior transactions to future transactions that we believe are similar, but that ultimately are determined to have different characteristics that dictate different revenue reporting treatment. These factors may make our financial reporting more complex and difficult for investors to understand, may make comparison of our results of operations to prior periods or other companies more difficult, may make it more difficult for us to give accurate guidance, and could increase the potential for reporting errors.. Further, our acquisitions have imposed purchase accounting requirements, required us to integrate accounting personnel, systems, and processes, necessitated various consolidation and elimination adjustments, and imposed additional filing and audit requirements. Ongoing evolution of our business, changes in underlying GAAP and any future acquisitions, will compound these complexities. Our operating results may be adversely affected if we make accounting errors or our judgments prove to be wrong, assumptions change or actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below investor expectations or guidance we may have provided, resulting in a decline in our stock price and potential legal claims.. We are continuing to develop our IZEAx platform and are in the process of transitioning certain features and customers from our legacy Ebyline and ZenContent platforms.  Our updated IZEAx platform may not achieve sufficient market acceptance to be commercially viable for open marketplace or SaaS services.. We are continuing to develop our primary platform, IZEAx, and we intend to focus the majority of our engineering resources on the IZEAx platform for the foreseeable future.  Throughout 2018, we will continue to add additional features to support SaaS white-label partners and integrate the Ebyline and ZenContent platform offerings for custom content services within our IZEAx platform.  We are spending a significant amount of time and resources on the development of this platform, but we cannot provide any assurances of its short or long-term commercial success or growth.  There is no assurance that the amount of money being allocated for the platform will be sufficient to complete it, or that such completion will result in significant revenues or profit for us.  The Ebyline platform is naturally declining as we are dedicating resources to the continuation and development of our IZEAx platform.  We are working towards merging the two platforms and there is a risk that the merging of our Ebyline customers into IZEAx will result in a further decrease in revenue related to the self-service Content Workflow business if the customers do not understand the changes or do not believe that the IZEAx platform can provide them with a similar or improved service from what they received in the Ebyline platform.   Additionally, there is a risk that existing creators registered under our Ebyline and ZenContent platforms will either not migrate or will not participate and accept offers after their migration into IZEAx.  If our marketers and creators do not perceive this platform to be of high value and quality, we may not be able to retain them or acquire new marketers and creators. Additionally, if existing or future competitors develop or offer products or services that provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over. 11. Table of Contents. this platform, demand for IZEAx may decrease and our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively affected.. We have experienced rapid growth over a short period and we do not know whether this will continue. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively or successfully respond to changes in the market, our business could be harmed.. Our business has grown rapidly in a relatively short period of time as publishers, marketers and creators have increasingly used our services or offerings on our platforms. We have increased our revenues over the past three years from $8,322,274 for the year ended December 31, 2014 to $24,437,649 for the year ended December 31, 2017. This growth of our business has placed, and the continued growth that we expect will continue to place, significant demands on our management team and pressure to expand our operational and financial structure. We expect we will need to hire new employees to meet growing business needs.  To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will be required to:. • improve existing, and implement new, operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures;. • install enhanced management information systems; and. • train, motivate and manage our employees.. We may be unable to install adequate management information and control systems in an efficient and timely manner, and our current or planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. If we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our services and efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could harm our brand, results of operations, and overall business.. Although we have experienced rapid growth in the past, there is no assurance that such growth will continue.  It is difficult to predict whether our recent and historical levels of growth can be maintained. We have encountered in the past, and will encounter in the future, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries.  We expect that our service offerings and our platforms will evolve in ways that may be difficult to predict. It is possible that marketers and creators could broadly determine that they no longer believe in the value of our current platforms. In the event of these or any other changes to the market, our continued success will depend on our ability to successfully adjust our strategy to meet the changing market dynamics. If we are unable to do so, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be materially harmed.. We have been named as a defendant in a securities class action lawsuit. This litigation, and any other similar or related claims or investigations, could result in substantial damages and cost and may divert management's time and attention from our business.. A securities lawsuit, Julian Perez v. IZEA, Inc., et al., case number 2:18-cv-02784-SVW-GJS was instituted April 4, 2018 in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California against us and certain of our executive officers on behalf of certain purchasers of our common stock. The plaintiffs seek to recover damages for investors under federal securities laws. We are still in the early stages of this litigation and are unable to estimate a reasonably possible range of loss, if any, that may result from this matter.. The lawsuit, and any other similar or related claims or investigations could result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business and also harm our relationships with existing customers, vendors and business partners.  They may also materially damage our reputation and the value of our brand.  Our legal expenses incurred in defending the law suit, and any other similar or related matter, could be significant, and a ruling against us, or any settlement, could have a material adverse effect on us.. There can be no assurance that any litigation to which we are, or in the future may become, a party will be resolved in our favor. This lawsuit and any other lawsuits that we may become party to are subject to inherent uncertainties, and the costs to us of defending litigation matters will depend upon many unknown factors. Any claim that is successfully decided against us may require us to pay substantial damages, including punitive damages, and other related fees, or prevent us from selling certain of our products. Regardless of whether lawsuits are resolved in our favor or if we are the plaintiff or the defendant in the litigation, any lawsuits to which we are or may become a party will likely be expensive and time consuming to defend or resolve.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in unanticipated losses that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. 12. Table of Contents. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, because a portion of our sales, expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in foreign currencies.  Changes in the value of foreign currencies, particularly the Canadian dollar, affect our results of operations and financial position. With respect to international sales initially priced using U.S. dollars as a cost basis, a decrease in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar would make our products less price competitive. Once the product is sold at a fixed foreign currency price, we could experience foreign currency gains or losses that could have a material effect on our operating results.. We may have increases in tax expenses and uncertain future tax liabilities due to the recent enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Act\"), was signed into law resulting in significant changes to U.S. tax law, generally effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. Among other changes, the Tax Act reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21 percent from a maximum rate of 35 percent; implements a new system of taxation for non-U.S. earnings, including imposing a one-time tax on the deemed repatriation of undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries, permitting deductions for certain dividends from non-U.S. subsidiaries and expanding income inclusions from controlled foreign corporations; imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest; and allows for the expensing of certain capital expenditures. In the absence of guidance on various ambiguities in the application of certain provisions of the Tax Act, we will use what we believe are reasonable interpretations and assumptions in applying the Tax Act. It is possible, however, that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will issue subsequent guidance or take positions that differ from our prior interpretations and assumptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our deferred tax assets and liabilities, results of operations, and financial condition.. Delays in releasing enhanced versions of our products and services could adversely affect our competitive position.. As part of our strategy, we expect to periodically release enhanced versions of our premier platforms and related services. Even if our new versions contain the features and functionality our customers want, in the event we are unable to timely introduce these new product releases, our competitive position may be harmed. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the development of currently planned or future products in a timely and efficient manner. Due to the complexity of these products, internal quality assurance testing and customer testing of pre-commercial releases may reveal product performance issues or desirable feature enhancements that could lead us to postpone the release of these new versions. In addition, the reallocation of resources associated with any postponement would likely cause delays in the development and release of other future products or enhancements to our currently available products. Any delay in releasing other future products or enhancements of our products could cause our financial results to be adversely impacted.. We may expand our business through acquisitions of other companies, technologies and assets, which may divert our management's attention or prove not to be successful or result in equity dilution.. We have completed two significant recent acquisitions, Ebyline, Inc. in January 2015 and ZenContent, Inc. in July 2016. We may decide to pursue other acquisitions of companies, technologies and assets in the future. Such transactions could divert our management's time and focus from operating our business.. Integrating an acquired company, technology or assets is risky and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, including, among other things, with respect to:. • incorporating new technologies into our existing business infrastructure;. • consolidating corporate and administrative functions;. • coordinating our sales and marketing functions to incorporate the new company, technology or assets;. • maintaining morale, retaining and integrating key employees to support the new business or technology and managing our expansion in capacity; and. • maintaining standards, controls, procedures and policies (including effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures).. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we may acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our earnings based on this impairment assessment process, which could harm our operating results.. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, including our common stock, or the addition of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses or acquired in-process research and development expenses,. 13. Table of Contents. any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future acquisitions may also require us to obtain additional financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. We currently have no commitments or agreements with respect to any such acquisitions, and there can be no assurance that we will complete any acquisitions in the future.. The social sponsorship landscape is subject to numerous changes that could cause our revenue to decline.. Our social sponsorship business model may not continue to be effective in the future for a number of reasons, including the following:. • social sponsorship is, by its nature, limited in content relative to other media (less time or fewer words are able to be used to convey meaning);. • companies may be reluctant or slow to adopt social sponsorship that replaces, limits or competes with their existing direct marketing efforts;. • companies may prefer other forms of advertising we do not offer, including certain forms of search engine placements;. • companies may not utilize social sponsorship due to concerns of \"click-fraud\" particularly related to search engine placements in which a person or computer program imitates a legitimate user by clicking on an advertisement for the purpose of generating a charge per click without having an actual interest in the target of the advertisement's link; and. • regulatory actions may negatively impact certain business practices that we currently rely on to generate a portion of our revenue and profitability.. If the number of companies that purchase social sponsorship from us or the size of the sponsorship campaigns does not grow, our revenue could decline which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.. We rely on third-party social media platforms to provide the mechanism necessary to deliver influencer marketing, and any change in the platform terms, costs, availability, or access to these technologies could adversely affect our business.. We rely on third-party social media platforms such as Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and YouTube to serve as the mechanism for publishing influencer marketing to targeted audiences, in order to deliver our sponsored social services to our customers. These platforms include technologies that provide some of the core functionality required to operate the sponsored social portion of our platform, as well as functionalities such as user traffic reporting, ad-serving, content delivery services and reporting. There can be no assurance that these providers will continue to make all or any of their technologies available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. Third-party social media platforms may start charging fees or otherwise change their business models in a manner that impedes our ability to use their technologies. In any event, we have no control over these companies or their decision-making with respect to granting us access to their social media platforms, or providing us with analytical data, and any material change in the current terms, costs, availability or use of their social media platforms or analytical data could adversely affect our business.. Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by us and by our customers and their end users. Internet access providers or distributors may be able to block, degrade or charge for access to our content, which could lead to additional expenses to us and our customers and the loss of end users and advertisers.. Products and services such as ours depend on our ability and the ability of our customers' users to access the Internet. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have, or in the future may have, significant market power in the broadband and Internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies and government-owned service providers. Some of these providers may take, or have stated that they may take, measures that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of user access to products or services such as ours by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate product or service offerings such as ours, or by charging increased fees to businesses such as ours to provide content or to have users access that content.  In 2015, the Federal Communications Commission (\"FCC\") released an order, commonly referred to as net neutrality, that, among other things, prohibited (i) the impairment or degradation of lawful Internet traffic on the basis of content, application or service and (ii) the practice of favoring some Internet traffic over other Internet traffic based on the payment of higher fees. In December 2017, the FCC voted to overturn the net neutrality regulations imposed by the 2015 order. Internet service providers in the U.S. may now be able to impair or degrade the use of, or increase the cost of using, our products or services.  Such interference could result in a loss of existing viewers, subscribers and advertisers, and increased costs, and could impair our ability to attract new viewers, subscribers and advertisers, thereby harming our revenues and growth.. 14. Table of Contents. In order for our social sponsorship business to be successful, we must retain existing creators, as well as continue to build our network of creators.. We must continue to retain and acquire creators that publish sponsorships through IZEAx in order to increase revenue from customers and achieve profitability.  If creators do not perceive our products and services to be of high value and quality or if we fail to provide value with IZEAx, we may not be able to acquire or retain creators. If we are unable to acquire new creators in numbers sufficient to grow our business, or if creators cease using our products and services, the revenue we generate may decrease and our operating results will be adversely affected. We believe that many of our new creators originate from word of mouth and other referrals from existing creators, and therefore we must ensure that our existing creators remain loyal to our service in order to continue receiving those referrals. If our efforts to satisfy our existing creators are not successful, we may be unable to acquire new creators in sufficient numbers to continue to grow our business or we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenses in order to acquire new creators.. Intense competition in our target markets could impair our ability to grow and to achieve profitability.. The market for native advertising is highly competitive.  We expect this competition to continue to increase, in part because there are no significant barriers to entry to our industry.  Increased competition may result in price reductions for advertising space, reduced margins and loss of market share.  Our principal competitors include other companies that provide marketers with Internet advertising solutions and companies that offer pay per click search services.. Competition for advertising placements among current and future suppliers of Internet navigational and informational services, high traffic websites and social sponsorship providers, as well as competition with other media for native advertising placements, could result in significant price competition, declining margins and reductions in advertising revenue.  In addition, as we continue our efforts to expand the scope of our services, we may compete with a greater number of other media companies across an increasing range of different services, including in vertical markets where competitors may have advantages in expertise, brand recognition and other areas. If existing or future competitors develop or offer products or services that provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over those offered by us, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively affected.  We also compete with traditional advertising media, such as direct mail, television, radio, cable and print for a share of marketers' total advertising budgets. Many current and potential competitors enjoy competitive advantages over us, such as longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, greater access to advertising space on high-traffic websites, and significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources.  As a result, we may be unable to compete successfully.  If we fail to compete successfully, we could lose customers or advertising inventory and our revenue and results of operations could decline.. Our business depends on a strong brand, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, or if we receive unfavorable media coverage, our ability to expand our base of creators and marketers will be impaired and our business and operating results will be harmed.. We believe that the brand identity that we have developed has significantly contributed to the success of our business.  We also believe that maintaining and enhancing the \"IZEA\" brand is critical to expanding our base of creators and marketers. Maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not be successful.  If we fail to promote, maintain, and protect the \"IZEA\" brand, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected.  We anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, maintaining and enhancing our brand may become increasingly difficult and expensive.  Unfavorable publicity or consumer perception of our platforms, applications, practices or service offerings, or the offerings of our marketers, could adversely affect our reputation, resulting in difficulties in recruiting, decreased revenue and a negative impact on the number of marketers and the size of our creator base, the loyalty of our creators and the number and variety of sponsorships we offer each day. As a result, our business, prospects, results of operation and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Our total number of user accounts may be higher than the number of our actual individual marketers or creators and may not be representative of the number of persons who are active users.. Our total number of user accounts in the IZEAx, Ebyline and ZenContent platforms may be higher than the number of our actual individual marketers and creators because some may have created multiple accounts for different purposes, including different user connections. We define a user connection as a social account or blog that has been added to IZEAx under a user account. It is possible for one user to add as many user connections as they like, and it is common for talent mangers and large publishers to add several connections under a single account. Given the challenges inherent in identifying these creators, we do. 15. Table of Contents. not have a reliable system to accurately identify the number of actual individual creators, and thus we rely on the number of total user connections and user accounts as our measure of the size of our user base. In addition, the number of user accounts includes the total number of individuals that have completed registration through a specific date, less individuals who have unsubscribed, and should not be considered as representative of the number of persons who continue to actively create to fulfill the sponsorships offered through our platforms.  Many users may create an account, but may not actively participate in marketplace activities.. Our cryptocurrency mining activities will be unsuccessful unless cryptocurrencies and their mining and trading systems are further developed and are more widely accepted by consumers, investors and government regulators.. IZEA maintains a small cryptocurrency mining operation.  Our cryptocurrency mining activities will be subject to the significant risks accompanying the development or acceptance of cryptocurrencies and their mining and trading systems. Cryptocurrencies such as bitcoins which may be used, among other things, to buy and sell goods and services, are part of a new and rapidly evolving industry. The growth of this industry in general, and the use of cryptocurrencies in particular, is subject to a high degree of uncertainty. The factors affecting the further development of this industry, as well as our cryptocurrency initiative, include:. • continued worldwide growth in the adoption and use of cryptocurrencies;. • general economic conditions, as well as government and quasi-government regulation of cryptocurrencies and their use, or restrictions on or regulation of access to and operation of cryptocurrency trading systems;. • changes in consumer demographics and public preferences;. • the availability and popularity of other forms or methods of buying and selling goods and services, including new means of using government-issued currencies; and. • negative consumer sentiment and perception of cryptocurrencies. Recently, cryptocurrencies and their infrastructure and markets have been subject to increased regulation and negative public attention.  For example, various media social media and internet service providers have limited the availability to market cryptocurrency related advertising.  In 2018, we developed a CPU mining software application that could pool our network's computing resources to mine cryptocurrency.  However, due to increasing financial, legal and regulatory uncertainty around cryptocurrency, we have decided not to release our mining software to the public at this time. Unless and until the financial, legal and regulatory landscape with respect to, as well as the public perception of, cryptocurrencies improves, we will be hampered in our ability to further develop our cryptocurrency related activities. Any slower than expected acceptance or adoption or any decline in the acceptance or adoption of cryptocurrency could have a detrimental impact on the profit margins of our mining operations and our cryptocurrency initiative in general.. We may become subject to government regulation and legal uncertainties that could reduce demand for our products and services or increase the cost of doing business, thereby adversely affecting our financial results.. As described in the section \"Business - Government Regulation,\" we are subject to laws and regulations applicable to businesses generally and certain laws or regulations directly applicable to service providers for advertising and marketing Internet commerce. Due to the increasing popularity and use of social media, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may become applicable to us or may be adopted in the future with respect to social media covering issues such as:. • truth-in-advertising;. • user privacy;. • taxation;. • right to access personal data;. • copyrights;. • distribution; and. • characteristics and quality of services.. The applicability of existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property, encryption, taxation, libel, export or import matters and personal privacy to social media platforms is uncertain.  The vast majority of these laws were adopted prior to the broad commercial use of social media platforms and related technologies.  As a result, they do not contemplate or address the unique issues of social media and related technologies.   Changes to these laws intended to address these issues, including some recently proposed changes, could create uncertainty in the social media marketplace.  Such uncertainty could reduce demand for our services or increase the cost of doing business due to increased costs of litigation or increased service delivery costs.. 16. Table of Contents. Our social sponsorship business is subject to the risks associated with word of mouth advertising and endorsements, such as violations of the \"truth-in-advertising,\" FTC Guides and other similar regulatory requirements and, more generally, loss of consumer confidence.. We do not engage in targeted or online behavioral advertising practices, nor do we compile or use information concerning consumer behavior on an individual level, but we may do so from time to time in the aggregate and on an anonymous basis to analyze our services and offerings, and to better optimize them for improved business results.  As the practice of targeted advertising is increasingly scrutinized by both regulators and the industry alike, a greater emphasis has been placed on educating consumers about their privacy choices on the Internet, and providing them with the right to opt in or opt out of certain industry practices, such as targeted advertising.   The common thread throughout both targeted advertising and the FTC requirements described in detail in the section \"Business - Government Regulation\" is the increased importance placed on transparency between the marketer and the consumer to ensure that consumers know the difference between \"information\" and \"advertising\" on the Internet, and are afforded the opportunity to decide how their data will be used in the manner to which they are marketed. There is a risk regarding negative consumer perception \"of the practice of undisclosed compensation of social media users to endorse specific products\" which pertains to a risk of overall general public confidence in the FTC's ability to enforce its Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials in Advertising in social media.  As described in the section \"Business - Government Regulation,\" we undertake various measures through controls across our platforms and by monitoring and enforcing our code of ethics to ensure that marketers and creators comply with the FTC Guides when utilizing our sites, but if competitors and other companies do not, it could create a negative overall perception for the industry.  Not only will readers stop relying on blogs for useful, timely and insightful information that enrich their lives by having access to up-to-the-minute information that often bears different perspectives and philosophies, but a lack of compliance will almost inevitably result in greater governmental oversight and involvement in an already-highly regulated marketplace.  If there is pervasive overall negative perception caused by others not complying with FTC Guides among its other acts, regulations and policies, then this could result in reduced revenue and results of operations and higher compliance costs for us.. New tax treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce may adversely affect the commercial use of our services and our financial results.. Due to the global nature of social media, it is possible that various states or foreign countries might attempt to regulate our transmissions or levy sales, income or other taxes relating to our activities.  Tax authorities at the international, federal, state and local levels are currently reviewing the appropriate treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce.  New or revised international, federal, state or local tax regulations may subject us or our creators to additional sales, income and other taxes.  We cannot predict the effect of current attempts to impose sales, income or other taxes on commerce over social media.  New or revised taxes and, in particular, sales taxes, VAT and similar taxes would likely increase the cost of doing business online and decrease the attractiveness of advertising and selling goods and services over social media.  New taxes could also create significant increases in internal costs necessary to capture data, and collect and remit taxes. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Failure to comply with federal, state and international privacy laws and regulations, or the expansion of current or the enactment of new privacy laws or regulations, could adversely affect our business.. A variety of federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of consumer data.  The existing privacy-related laws and regulations are evolving and subject to potentially differing interpretations.  In addition, various federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies may expand current or enact new laws regarding privacy matters.  For example, the European Union adopted the GDPR, which will go into effect in May 2018, and requires companies to satisfy new requirements regarding the handling of personal and sensitive data, including its collection, use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. Complying with the GDPR may cause us to incur substantial operational costs or require us to change our business practices. Despite our efforts to bring practices into compliance before the effective date of the GDPR, we may not be successful. Noncompliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others and fines up to the greater of \20020 million or 4% of annual global revenues and damage to our reputation and brand. We also may find it necessary to establish systems to maintain personal data originating from the European Union in the European Economic Area as a result of changes or restrictions to currently legitimate methods of effectuating cross-border personal data transfers to countries outside of the European Economic Area, which may involve substantial expense and distraction from other aspects of our business. Additionally, there could be uncertainty as to how to comply with other European Union privacy laws, such as country-specific laws that may conflict with or deviate from European Union privacy directives, such as the GDPR.. We have posted privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of creator data on our websites and platforms. Several Internet companies have incurred penalties for failing to abide by the representations made in. 17. Table of Contents. their privacy policies and practices. In addition, several states have adopted legislation that requires businesses to implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and practices to protect sensitive personal information and to provide notice to consumers in the event of a security breach.  Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any data-related consent orders, FTC requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws, regulations or industry self-regulatory principles could result in claims, proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others or other liabilities, which could adversely affect our business.  In addition, a failure or perceived failure to comply with industry standards or with our own privacy policies and practices could result in a loss of creators or marketers and adversely affect our business.  Federal, state and international governmental authorities continue to evaluate the privacy implications inherent in the use of third-party web \"cookies\" for behavioral advertising.  The regulation of these cookies and other current online advertising practices could adversely affect our business.. Our business depends on our ability to maintain and scale the network infrastructure necessary to operate our platforms and applications, and any significant disruption in service on our platforms and applications could result in a loss of creators or marketers.. Creators and marketers access our services through our platforms and applications.  Our reputation and ability to acquire, retain, and serve our creators and marketers are dependent upon the reliable performance of our platforms and applications and the underlying network infrastructure. If our creator base continues to grow, we will need an increasing amount of network capacity and computing power. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts for data centers and equipment and related network infrastructure to handle the traffic on our platforms and applications.  The operation of these systems is expensive and complex and could result in operational failures. In the event that our creator base or the amount of traffic on our platforms and applications grows more quickly than anticipated, we may be required to incur significant additional costs. Interruptions in these systems, whether due to system failures, computer viruses or physical or electronic break-ins, could affect the security or availability of our platforms and applications, and prevent our creators and marketers from accessing our services.  A substantial portion of our network infrastructure is hosted by third-party providers. Any disruption in these services or any failure of these providers to handle existing or increased traffic could significantly harm our business.  Any financial or other difficulties these providers face may adversely affect our business, and we exercise little control over these providers, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide.  If we do not maintain or expand our network infrastructure successfully or if we experience operational failures, we could lose current and potential creators and marketers, which could harm our operating results and financial condition.. If our security measures are breached, or if our services are subject to attacks that degrade or deny the ability of users to access our platforms, our platforms and applications may be perceived as not being secure, marketers and creators may curtail or stop using our services, and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure.. Our platforms and applications and the network infrastructure that is hosted by third-party providers involve the storage and transmission of marketer and creator proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and potential liability. Our security measures may be breached due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, malfeasance, security flaws in the third-party hosting service that we rely upon or any number of other reasons and, as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our data or our marketers' or creators' data. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, marketers or creators to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or our marketers' or creators' data.  Although we do have security measures in place, we have had instances where some customers have used fraudulent credit cards in order to pay for our services. While these breaches of our security did not result in material harm to our business, any future breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation and a loss of confidence in the security of our platforms and applications that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Because the techniques used to obtain and use unauthorized credit cards, obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures on a timely basis. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose marketers, creators and vendors and have difficulty obtaining merchant processors or insurance coverage essential for our operations.. If our technology platforms contain defects, we may need to suspend their availability and our business and reputation would be harmed.. Platforms as complex as ours often contain unknown and undetected errors or performance problems. Many serious defects are frequently found during the period immediately following introduction and initial release of new platforms or enhancements to existing platforms. Although we attempt to resolve all errors that we believe would be considered serious by our customers before making our platforms available to them, our products are not error-free. We may not be able to detect and. 18. Table of Contents. correct errors before releasing our product commercially. We cannot ensure that undetected errors or performance problems in our existing or future products will not be discovered in the future or that known errors, considered minor by us, will not result in serious issues for our customers. Any such errors or performance problems may be considered serious by our customers, resulting in a decrease in our revenues.. We may be subject to lawsuits for information by our marketers and our creators, which may affect our business.. Laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their marketers or of their social media creators and for the content of their marketers' listings are currently unsettled. It is unclear whether we could be subjected to claims for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or claims based on other theories relating to the information we publish on our websites or the information that is published across our platforms. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services and print publications in the past. We may not successfully avoid civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by our marketers or our creators. Our potential liability for unlawful activities of our marketers or our creators or for the content of our marketers' listings could require us to implement measures to reduce our exposure to such liability, which may require us, among other things, to spend substantial resources or to discontinue certain service offerings. Our insurance may not adequately protect us against these types of claims and the defense of such claims may divert the attention of our management from our operations. If we are subjected to such lawsuits, it may adversely affect our business.. If we fail to detect click-fraud or other invalid clicks, we could lose the confidence of our marketers and advertising partners as a result of lost revenue to marketers or misappropriation of proprietary and confidential information, thereby causing our business to suffer.. \"Click-fraud\" is a form of online fraud when a person or computer program imitates a legitimate user by intentionally clicking on an advertisement for the purpose of generating a charge per click without having an actual interest in the target of the advertisement's link.  We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent or illegitimate clicks on our sponsored listings.  The security measures we have in place, which are designed to reduce the likelihood of click-fraud, detect click-fraud from time to time.  Although the instances of click-fraud that we have detected to date have not had a material effect on our business, click-fraud could result in a marketer experiencing a reduced return on their investment in our advertising programs because the fraudulent clicks will not lead to revenue for the marketers.  As a result, our marketers and advertising partners may become dissatisfied with our advertising programs, which could lead to loss of marketers, advertising partners and revenue.  In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary and confidential information or could cause interruptions in our operations.  We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against such security breaches or to address problems caused by such breaches.  Concerns over the security of the Internet and other online transactions and the privacy of users may also deter people from using the Internet to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential information.. If third parties claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights, it may result in costly litigation.. We cannot assure you that third parties will not claim our current or future products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. Any such claims, with or without merit, could cause costly litigation that could consume significant management time. As the number of product and services offerings in our market increases and functionalities increasingly overlap, companies such as ours may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. These claims also might require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. If required, we may not be able to obtain such royalty or license agreements, or obtain them on terms acceptable to us.. Historically, we have not relied upon patents to protect our proprietary technology, and our competitors may be able to offer similar products and services, which would harm our competitive position.. Our success depends upon our proprietary technology.  We do not have registered patents on any of our current platforms, because we determined that the costs of patent prosecution outweighed the benefits given the alternative of reliance upon copyright law to protect our computer code and other proprietary technology and properties. In addition to copyright laws, we rely upon service mark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights.  As part of our confidentiality procedures, we enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees and consultants.  Despite these precautions, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, or develop similar technology independently.  In addition, effective protection of intellectual property rights is unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries.  We cannot assure you that the protection of our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products and services or design around any intellectual property rights we hold.. 19. Table of Contents. The content and social sponsorship industry is subject to rapid technological change and, to compete, we must continually enhance our products and services.. We must continue to enhance and improve the performance, functionality and reliability of our products and services. The social sponsorship industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in user requirements and preferences, frequent new product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our products and services obsolete. In the past, we have discovered that some of our customers desire additional performance and functionality not currently offered by our products. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop new products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our customers, and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of our technology and other proprietary technology involves significant technical and business risks. We may fail to use new technologies effectively or to adapt our proprietary technology and systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. If we are unable to adapt to changing market conditions, customer requirements or emerging industry standards, we may not be able to increase our revenue and expand our business.. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel we may not be able to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives.. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to retain our key management, including Edward H. Murphy, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Ryan S. Schram, our Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Murphy, who is our founder, has unique knowledge regarding the social sponsorship space and business contacts that would be difficult to replace. Mr. Schram has sales, marketing and development expertise regarding our platforms that our other officers do not possess. Even though we have employment agreements in place with them, if Messrs. Murphy and Schram were to become unavailable to us, our operations would be adversely affected. Although we maintain \"key-man\" life insurance for our benefit on the lives of Mr. Murphy and Mr. Schram, this insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for the loss of our executive officers.. Our future success and our ability to expand our operations will also depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified engineers, sales and marketing and senior management personnel. Competition for these types of employees is intense due to the limited number of qualified professionals and the high demand for them, particularly in the Orlando, Florida area where our headquarters are located. We have in the past experienced difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel. Failure to attract, assimilate and retain personnel, including key management, technical, sales and marketing personnel, would have a material adverse effect on our business and potential growth.. Public company compliance may make it more difficult to attract and retain officers and directors.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies.  As a public company, we expect these rules and regulations to increase our compliance costs and to make certain activities more time consuming and costly.  As a public company, we also expect that these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage.  As a result, it may be more difficult and costly for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors or as executive officers.. Risks Relating to our Common Stock. There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet the requirements for our common stock to trade on the Nasdaq Capital Market.. Since becoming listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market on January 26, 2016, we have been required to comply with certain Nasdaq listing requirements, including, without limitation, with respect to our corporate governance, finances and stock price. If we fail to meet any of these requirements, our shares could be delisted. In particular, Nasdaq rules include minimum bid price, stockholders' equity and public float requirements.. There is no assurance that we will continue to meet the continued listing requirements. For example, during the period of the delay in filing this Annual Report, on April 5, 2018, we received a notification letter from the Listing Qualifications Department of The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC (\"Nasdaq\") indicating that we were not in compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5250(c)(1) because we had not yet filed this Annual Report. In accordance with Nasdaq listing rules, we have 60 calendar days,. 20. Table of Contents. or until June 4, 2018, to submit our plan to regain compliance with the timely periodic reporting requirement. Although, upon the filing of this Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2017, we are now current in our filing of periodic reports under the Exchange Act and have therefore regained compliance with Nasdaq's continued listing requirements, there is no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with other applicable Nasdaq listing requirements in the future.. Nasdaq requires us to maintain at least $2.5 million in stockholders' equity and a minimum bid price of $1.  We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain the stockholders' equity balance or a minimum bid price above these minimum thresholds.  If we fall below the minimum requirements, we will need to develop a plan to regain compliance. Such plans may include the need to raise additional capital in order to comply.   Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or securities convertible or exercisable into shares of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to drop and could dilute your percentage of ownership.  If our plans are unsuccessful, our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market.. If our common stock were delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, it would likely lead to a number of negative implications, including an adverse effect on the price of our common stock, reduced liquidity in our common stock, the loss of federal preemption of state securities laws and greater difficulty in obtaining financing. In the event of a delisting, we would expect to take actions to restore our compliance with Nasdaq's listing requirements, but we can provide no assurance that any such action taken by us would allow our common stock to become listed again, stabilize the market price or improve the liquidity of our common stock or prevent future non-compliance with Nasdaq's listing requirements.. Exercise of stock options, warrants and other securities will dilute your percentage of ownership and could cause our stock price to fall.. As of April 13, 2018, we had 5,819,246 shares of common stock issued, outstanding stock options to purchase 1,040,757 shares of our common stock at an average exercise price of $5.95 per share, and outstanding warrants to purchase 514,012 shares of our common stock at an average exercise price of $8.47 per share.. We also have reserved shares to issue stock options, restricted stock or other awards to purchase or receive up to 306,004 shares of common stock under our May 2011 Equity Incentive Plan and 33,594 shares of common stock under our 2014 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.  In the future, we may grant additional stock options, restricted stock units, warrants and convertible securities, as well as issue additional shares of common stock pursuant to the earn-out provisions of the stock purchase agreements in connection with our Ebyline and ZenContent acquisitions.  The exercise, conversion or exchange by holders of stock options, restricted stock units, warrants or convertible securities for shares of common stock, and the issuance of new shares pursuant to acquisition earn-out provisions, will dilute the percentage ownership of our other stockholders. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to fall and could impair our ability to raise capital by selling additional securities.. There may be substantial sales of our common stock under our effective shelf registration.. We have an effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-212247) for the sale of up to $75,000,000 of our common stock.  Currently, under Form S-3 rules, we can only sell our securities in a public primary offering with a value not exceeding one-third of our public float in any 12-month period, because our public float is below $75,000,000.   Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or securities convertible or exercisable into shares of our common stock under the shelf registration statement could cause the market price of our common stock to drop and could dilute your percentage of ownership.. Issuance of stock to pay future obligations will dilute your percentage of ownership and could cause our stock price to fall.. On July 31, 2016, we purchased all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of ZenContent, Inc. pursuant to the terms of a Stock Purchase Agreement by and among our company, ZenContent and the stockholders of ZenContent for a maximum purchase price to be paid over the next three years of $4,500,000.  Upon closing we made a cash payment of $400,000 and issued 86,207 shares of our common stock valued at $600,000 (using the 30 trading-day volume-weighted average closing price of our common stock of $6.96 per share as of July 29, 2016).  The agreement also requires (i) three equal annual installment payments totaling $1,000,000 commencing 12 months following the closing and (ii) contingent performance payments of up to an aggregate of $2,500,000 over the three 12-month periods following the closing, based upon ZenContent achieving certain minimum revenue thresholds. Of these payments, 33% of each such annual installment or contingent performance payment will be in the form of cash and the remainder of such payment will be in the form of either cash or additional shares of our common stock, determined at our option.  If we issue stock as payment for up to 67% of the future amounts owed, there is no stated maximum on the number of shares that we may issue.  This may result in the issuance of. 21. Table of Contents. substantial amount of shares because the number of shares will be determined using the 30 trading-day volume-weighted average closing price of our common stock prior to the payment. The issuance of a substantial number of shares of our common stock to the former stockholders of ZenContent or our other stockholders or the perception that such sales may occur could cause our stock price to decline, make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of our common stock or acquire other businesses using our common stock as consideration.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts may publish about us, our business, our market, or our competitors. No person is under any obligation to publish research or reports on us, and any person publishing research or reports on us may discontinue doing so at any time without notice. If adequate research coverage is not maintained on our company or if any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business or provide relatively more favorable recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. If any analysts who cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Our earnings are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and to market downturns.. Our revenues and earnings may fluctuate significantly in the future.  General economic or other political conditions may cause a downturn in the market for our products or services.  A future downturn in the market for our products or services could adversely affect our operating results and increase the risk of substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations in our earnings. Our future operating results may be affected by many factors, including, but not limited to: our ability to retain existing or secure anticipated marketers and creators; our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and services on a timely basis; changes in the mix of products developed, produced and sold; and disputes with our marketers and creators.  These factors affecting our future earnings are difficult to forecast and could harm our quarterly and/or annual operating results.  The change in our earnings or general economic conditions may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate.. Our stock price may be volatile.. While our shares of common stock are listed for trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market, the stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology-based companies in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of any specific public company.  The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility.  As a result, the market price could fluctuate widely in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following:. • changes in our industry;. • competitive pricing pressures;. • our ability to obtain working capital financing;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • limited \"public float\" in the hands of a small number of persons whose sales or lack of sales could result in positive or negative pricing pressure on the market prices of our common stock;. • expiration of any Rule 144 holding periods or registration of unregistered securities issued by us;. • sales of our common stock;. • our ability to execute our business plan;. • operating results that fall below expectations;. • loss of any strategic relationship;. • regulatory developments; and. • economic and other external factors.. These and other market and industry factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, regardless of our actual operating performance, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock.. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future.  Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock.. 22. Table of Contents. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future.  The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as our Board of Directors may consider relevant.  If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates."
