[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Our ability to sustain profitable growth is subject to both the risks affecting our business generally and the inherent difficulties associated with implementing our strategic plan.. As we position the Company for long-term growth, it may take longer than expected to achieve our objectives, and actual results may be materially less than planned. Our ability to improve our operating results depends upon a significant number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. 6. Table of Contents. • customer response to our marketing and merchandise strategies;. • our ability to achieve profitable sales and to make adjustments in response to changing conditions;. • our ability to respond to competitive pressures in our industry;. • our ability to effectively manage inventory;. • the success of our omnichannel strategy;. • our ability to gather accurate and relevant data and effectively utilize that data in our strategic planning and decision making;. • our ability to benefit from capital improvements made to our store environment;. • our ability to respond to any unanticipated changes in expected cash flows, liquidity and cash needs, including our ability to obtain any additional financing or other liquidity enhancing transactions, if and when needed;. • our ability to achieve positive cash flow;. • our ability to access an adequate and uninterrupted supply of merchandise from suppliers at expected levels and on acceptable terms;. • changes to the regulatory environment in which our business operates; and. • general economic conditions.. There is no assurance that our marketing, merchandising and omnichannel strategies, or any future adjustments to our strategies, will improve our operating results.. We operate in a highly competitive industry, which could adversely impact our sales and profitability.. The retail industry is highly competitive, with few barriers to entry. We compete with many other local, regional and national retailers for customers, employees, locations, merchandise, services and other important aspects of our business. Those competitors include other department stores, discounters, home furnishing stores, large appliance retailers, specialty retailers, wholesale clubs, direct-to-consumer businesses, including those on the Internet, providers of home improvement services and other forms of retail commerce. Some competitors are larger than JCPenney, and/or have greater financial resources available to them, and, as a result, may be able to devote greater resources to sourcing, promoting, selling their products, updating their store environment and updating their technology. Competition is characterized by many factors, including merchandise assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation, shipping times and cost, online and mobile user experience, credit availability, customer loyalty, availability of in-store services, such as styling salon, optical, portrait photography and custom decorating, and the ability to offer personalized customer experiences. We have experienced, and anticipate that we will continue to experience for at least the foreseeable future, significant competition from our competitors. The performance of competitors as well as changes in their pricing and promotional policies, marketing activities, customer loyalty programs, availability of in-store services, new store openings, store renovations, launches of Internet websites or mobile platforms, brand launches and other merchandise and operational strategies could cause us to have lower sales, lower merchandise margin and/or higher operating expenses such as marketing costs and other selling, general and administrative expenses, which in turn could have an adverse impact on our profitability.. Our sales and operating results depend on our ability to develop merchandise offerings that resonate with our existing customers and help to attract new customers.. Our sales and operating results depend in part on our ability to predict and respond to changes in fashion trends and customer preferences in a timely manner by consistently offering stylish, quality merchandise assortments at competitive prices. We continuously assess emerging styles and trends and focus on developing a merchandise assortment to meet customer preferences. There is no assurance that these efforts will be successful or that we will be able to satisfy constantly changing customer demands. To the extent our decisions regarding our merchandise differ from our customers' preferences, we may be. 7. Table of Contents. faced with reduced sales and excess inventories for some products and/or missed opportunities for others. Any sustained failure to identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and customer preferences and buying trends could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, merchandise misjudgments may adversely impact the perception or reputation of our Company, which could result in declines in customer loyalty and vendor relationship issues, and ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may also seek to expand into new lines of business from time to time, such as offering large appliances for sale and offering home improvement products and installation services through third-parties. There is no assurance that these efforts will be successful. As we devote time and resources to new lines of business, management's attention and resources may be diverted from existing business activities. Further, if new lines of business are not as successful as we planned, then we risk damaging our overall business results. In addition, we may seek to expand our merchandise offerings into new product categories. Moving into new lines of business and expanding our merchandise offerings may carry new or additional risks beyond those typically associated with our traditional apparel and home furnishings businesses, including potential reputational harm resulting from actions by unaffiliated third-parties that we may use to assist us in providing goods or services. We may not be able to develop new lines of business in a manner that improves our operating results or address or mitigate the risks associated with new product categories and new lines of business, and may therefore be forced to close the new lines of business or reduce our expanded merchandise offerings, which may damage our reputation and negatively impact our operating results.. Our results may be negatively impacted if customers do not maintain their favorable perception of our Company and our private brand merchandise.. Maintaining and continually enhancing the value of our Company and our private brand merchandise is important to the success of our business. The value of our private brands is based in large part on the degree to which customers perceive and react to them. The value of our private brands could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including customer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner in sourcing our private brand merchandise, adverse publicity about our private brand merchandise, our failure to maintain the quality of our private brand products, the failure of our private brand merchandise to deliver consistently good value to the customer, or the failure to protect the image associated with our private brands. The growing use of social and digital media by customers, us, and third parties increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. Negative posts or comments about us, our private brands, or any of our merchandise on social or digital media could seriously damage our reputation. If we do not maintain the favorable perception of our Company and our private brand merchandise or we experience a reduction in the level of private brand sales, our business results could be negatively impacted.. Our ability to increase sales and store productivity is largely dependent upon our ability to increase customer traffic and conversion.. Customer traffic depends upon our ability to successfully market compelling merchandise assortments, present an appealing shopping environment and experience to customers, and attract customers to our stores through omnichannel initiatives such as pickup-in-store programs. Our strategies focus on increasing customer traffic and improving conversion in our stores and online; however, there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or will result in increased sales or margins. Further, costs to drive online traffic may be higher than anticipated, which could result in lower margins, and actions to drive online traffic may not deliver anticipated results. In addition, external events outside of our control, including store closings by our competitors, pandemics, terrorist threats, domestic conflicts and civil unrest, may influence customers' decisions to visit malls or might otherwise cause customers to avoid public places. There is no assurance that we will be able to reverse any decline in traffic or that increases in Internet sales will offset any decline in store traffic. We may need to respond to any declines in customer traffic or conversion rates by increasing markdowns or promotions to attract customers, which could adversely impact our operating results and cash flows from operating activities. In addition, the challenge of declining store traffic along with the growth of digital shopping channels and its diversion of sales from brick-and-mortar stores could lead to store closures and/or asset impairment charges, which could adversely impact our operating results, financial position and cash flows.. If we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our merchandise margins could be adversely affected.. Our profitability depends upon our ability to manage appropriate inventory levels and respond quickly to shifts in consumer demand patterns. We must properly execute our inventory management strategies by appropriately allocating merchandise among our stores and online, timely and efficiently distributing inventory to stores, maintaining an appropriate mix and level of inventory in stores and online, adjusting our merchandise mix between our private and exclusive brands and national brands, appropriately changing the allocation of floor space of stores among product categories to respond to customer demand and. 8. Table of Contents. effectively managing pricing and markdowns. If we overestimate customer demand for our merchandise, we will likely need to record inventory markdowns and sell the excess inventory at clearance prices which would negatively impact our merchandise margins and operating results. If we underestimate customer demand for our merchandise, we may experience inventory shortages which may result in missed sales opportunities and have a negative impact on customer loyalty. In addition, although we have various processes and systems to help protect against loss or theft of our inventory, higher than expected levels of lost or stolen inventory (called \"shrinkage\") could result in write-offs and lost sales, which could adversely impact our profitability.. We must protect against security breaches or other unauthorized disclosures of confidential data about our customers as well as about our employees and other third parties.. As part of our normal operations, we and third-party service providers with whom we contract receive and maintain information about our customers (including credit/debit card information), our employees and other third parties. Confidential data must at all times be protected against security breaches or other unauthorized disclosure. We have, and require our third-party service providers to have, administrative, physical and technical safeguards and procedures in place to protect the security, confidentiality, integrity and availability of such information and to protect such information against unauthorized access, disclosure or acquisition. Despite our safeguards and security processes and procedures, there is no assurance that all of our systems and processes, or those of our third-party service providers, are free from vulnerability to security breaches, inadvertent data disclosure or acquisition by third parties. Further, because the methods used to obtain unauthorized access change frequently and may not be immediately detected, we may be unable to anticipate these methods or promptly implement safeguards. Any failure to protect confidential data about our business or our customers, employees or other third parties could materially damage our brand and reputation as well as result in significant expenses and disruptions to our operations, and loss of customer confidence, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We could also be subject to government enforcement actions and private litigation as a result of any such failure.. The failure to retain, attract and motivate our employees, including employees in key positions, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Our results depend on the contributions of our employees, including our senior management team and other key employees. This depends to a great extent on our ability to retain, attract and motivate talented employees throughout the organization, many of whom, particularly in the stores, are in entry level or part-time positions, which have historically had high rates of turnover. We currently operate with significantly fewer individuals than we have in the past who have assumed additional duties and responsibilities, which could have an adverse impact on our operating performance and efficiency. Negative media reports regarding the Company or the retail industry in general, as well as uncertainty due to announced store closings, could also have an adverse impact on our ability to attract, retain and motivate our employees. If we are unable to retain, attract and motivate talented employees with the appropriate skill sets, we may not achieve our objectives and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Our ability to meet our changing labor needs while controlling our costs is also subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, competing wages, potential union organizing efforts and government regulation. An inability to provide wages and/or benefits that are competitive within the markets in which we operate could adversely affect our ability to retain and attract employees. In addition, the loss of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to effectively identify a suitable successor to a key role in our senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business.. If we are unable to successfully develop and maintain a relevant and reliable omnichannel experience for our customers, our sales, results of operations and reputation could be adversely affected.. One of the pillars of our strategic framework is to deliver a superior omnichannel shopping experience for our customers through the integration of our store and digital shopping channels. Omnichannel retailing is rapidly evolving and we must anticipate and meet changing customer expectations. Our omnichannel strategies include our ship-from-store and pickup-in-store programs and expansion of our SKU count online. In addition, we continue to explore ways to enhance our customers' omnichannel shopping experience, including through investments in IT systems, operational changes and developing a more customer-friendly user experience. Our competitors are also investing in omnichannel initiatives, some of which may be more successful than our initiatives. For example, online and other competitors have placed an emphasis on delivery services, with customers increasingly seeking faster, guaranteed delivery times and low-price or free shipping. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain an ability to be competitive on delivery times and delivery costs, which is dependent on many factors. If the implementation of our omnichannel strategies is not successful or does not meet customer expectations, or we do not realize a return on our omnichannel investments, our reputation and operating results may be adversely affected.. 9. Table of Contents. Disruptions in our Internet website or mobile applications, or our inability to successfully execute our online strategies, could have an adverse impact on our sales and results of operations.. We sell merchandise over the Internet through our website, www.jcpenney.com, and through mobile applications for smart phones and tablets. Our Internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including rapid technological change and the implementation of new systems and platforms; liability for online and mobile content; violations of state or federal laws, including those relating to online and mobile privacy and intellectual property rights; credit card fraud; problems associated with the operation, security and availability of our website, mobile applications and related support systems; computer malware; telecommunications failures; electronic break-ins and similar disruptions; and the allocation of inventory between our online operations and department stores. The failure of our website or mobile applications to perform as expected could result in disruptions and costs to our operations and make it more difficult for customers to purchase merchandise online. In addition, our inability to successfully develop and maintain the necessary technological interfaces for our customers to purchase merchandise through our website and mobile applications, including user friendly software applications for smart phones and tablets, could result in the loss of Internet sales and have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Our operations are dependent on information technology systems; disruptions in those systems or increased costs relating to their implementation could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Our operations are dependent upon the integrity, security and consistent operation of various systems and data centers, including the point-of-sale systems in the stores, our Internet website and mobile applications, data centers that process transactions, communication systems and various software applications used throughout our Company to track inventory flow, process transactions, generate performance and financial reports and administer payroll and benefit plans.. We have implemented several applications and systems from third party vendors, providers and licensors to simplify our processes and reduce our use of customized existing legacy systems and expect to place additional applications and systems into operation in the future. Any continued reliance on existing legacy systems may result in extended system outages due to the difficulty in recovering those systems as well as inefficiencies in our business workflow due to the complexity and high levels of customization inherent in such systems. Implementing new applications and systems carries substantial risk, including implementation delays, cost overruns, disruption of operations, potential loss of data or information, lower customer satisfaction resulting in lost customers or sales, inability to deliver merchandise to our stores or our customers, the potential inability to meet reporting requirements and unintentional security vulnerabilities. There can be no assurances that we will successfully launch the new applications and systems as planned, that the new applications and systems will perform as expected or that the new applications and systems will be implemented without disruptions to our operations, any of which may cause critical information upon which we rely to be delayed, unreliable, corrupted, insufficient or inaccessible.. We also outsource various information technology functions to third party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future. We rely on those third party service providers to provide services on a timely and effective basis and their failure to perform as expected or as required by contract could result in disruptions and costs to our operations.. Our vendors are also highly dependent on the use of information technology systems. Major disruptions in their information technology systems could result in their inability to communicate with us or otherwise to process our transactions or information, their inability to perform required functions, or in the loss or corruption of our information, any and all of which could result in disruptions to our operations. Our vendors are responsible for having safeguards and procedures in place to protect the confidentiality, integrity and security of our information, and to protect our information and systems against unauthorized access, disclosure or acquisition. Any failure in their systems to operate or in their ability to protect our information or systems could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. 10. Table of Contents. We have insourced, and may continue to insource, certain business functions from third party vendors and may seek to relocate certain business functions to international locations in an attempt to achieve additional efficiencies, both of which subject us to risks, including disruptions in our business.. We have recently insourced certain business functions and may also need to continue to insource other aspects of our business in the future in order to effectively manage our costs and stay competitive. We may also seek from time to time to relocate certain business functions to countries other than the United States to access highly skilled labor markets and further control costs. There is no assurance that these efforts will be successful. In addition, future regulatory developments could hinder our ability to fully realize the anticipated benefits of these actions. These actions may also cause disruptions that negatively impact our business. If we are ultimately unable to perform insourced functions better than, or at least as well as, third party providers, or otherwise fully realize the anticipated benefits of these actions, our operating results could be adversely impacted.. Changes in our credit ratings may limit our access to capital markets and adversely affect our liquidity.. The credit rating agencies periodically review our capital structure and the quality and stability of our earnings. Any downgrades to our long-term credit ratings could result in reduced access to the credit and capital markets and higher interest costs on future financings. The future availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as economic and market conditions, the availability of credit and our credit ratings, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of us. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all.. Our profitability depends on our ability to source merchandise and deliver it to our customers in a timely and cost-effective manner.. Our merchandise is sourced from a wide variety of suppliers, and our business depends on being able to find qualified suppliers and access products in a timely and efficient manner. Inflationary pressures on commodity prices and other input costs could increase our cost of goods, and an inability to pass such cost increases on to our customers or a change in our merchandise mix as a result of such cost increases could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Additionally, the impact of economic conditions on our suppliers cannot be predicted and our suppliers may be unable to access financing or become insolvent and thus become unable to supply us with products. Developments in tax policy, such as the disallowance of tax deductions for imported merchandise, or the imposition of tariffs on imported merchandise, could further have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity.. Our arrangements with our suppliers and vendors may be impacted by our financial results or financial position.. Substantially all of our merchandise suppliers and vendors sell to us on open account purchase terms. There is a risk that our key suppliers and vendors could respond to any actual or apparent decrease in or any concern with our financial results or liquidity by requiring or conditioning their sale of merchandise to us on more stringent or more costly payment terms, such as by requiring standby letters of credit, earlier or advance payment of invoices, payment upon delivery or other assurances or credit support or by choosing not to sell merchandise to us on a timely basis or at all. Our arrangements with our suppliers and vendors may also be impacted by media reports regarding our financial position. Our need for additional liquidity could significantly increase and our supply of merchandise could be materially disrupted if a significant portion of our key suppliers and vendors took one or more of the actions described above, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales, customer satisfaction, cash flows, liquidity and financial position.. Our senior secured real estate term loan credit facility and senior secured notes are secured by certain of our real property and substantially all of our personal property, and such property may be subject to foreclosure or other remedies in the event of our default. In addition, the real estate term loan credit facility and the indenture governing the senior secured notes contain provisions that could restrict our operations and our ability to obtain additional financing.. We are (i) party to a $1.688 billion senior secured term loan credit facility and (ii) the issuer of $500 million aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes that are secured by mortgages on certain real property of the Company, in addition to liens on substantially all personal property of the Company, subject to certain exclusions set forth in the security documents relating to the term loan credit facility and the senior secured notes. The real property subject to mortgages under the term loan credit facility and the indenture governing the senior secured notes includes our distribution centers and certain of our stores.. The credit and guaranty agreement governing the term loan credit facility and the indenture governing the senior secured notes contain operating restrictions which may impact our future alternatives by limiting, without lender consent, our ability to borrow additional funds, execute certain equity financings or enter into dispositions or other liquidity enhancing or strategic. 11. Table of Contents. transactions regarding certain of our assets, including our real property. Our ability to obtain additional or other financing or to dispose of certain assets could also be negatively impacted because a substantial portion of our owned assets have been pledged as collateral for repayment of our indebtedness under the term loan credit facility and the senior secured notes.. If an event of default occurs and is continuing, our outstanding obligations under the term loan credit facility and the senior secured notes could be declared immediately due and payable or the lenders could foreclose on or exercise other remedies with respect to the assets securing the term loan credit facility and the senior secured notes, including our distribution centers and certain of our stores. If an event of default occurs, there is no assurance that we would have the cash resources available to repay such accelerated obligations or refinance such indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The occurrence of any one of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility limits our borrowing capacity to the value of certain of our assets. In addition, our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility is secured by certain of our personal property, and lenders may exercise remedies against the collateral in the event of our default.. We are party to a $2.35 billion senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility. Our borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility varies according to the Company's inventory levels, accounts receivable and credit card receivables, net of certain reserves. In the event of any material decrease in the amount of or appraised value of these assets, our borrowing capacity would similarly decrease, which could adversely impact our business and liquidity.. Our revolving credit facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and certain restrictions on operations become applicable if our availability falls below certain thresholds. These covenants could impose significant operating and financial limitations and restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to enter into particular transactions and to engage in other actions that we may believe are advisable or necessary for our business.. Our obligations under the revolving credit facility are secured by liens with respect to inventory, accounts receivable, deposit accounts and certain related collateral. In the event of a default that is not cured or waived within any applicable cure periods, the lenders' commitment to extend further credit under our revolving credit facility could be terminated, our outstanding obligations could become immediately due and payable, outstanding letters of credit may be required to be cash collateralized and remedies may be exercised against the collateral, which generally consists of the Company's inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts and cash credited thereto. If we are unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility, we may not have the necessary cash resources for our operations and, if any event of default occurs, there is no assurance that we would have the cash resources available to repay such accelerated obligations, refinance such indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or cash collateralize our letters of credit, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.. Our level of indebtedness may adversely affect our business and results of operations and may require the use of our available cash resources to meet repayment obligations, which could reduce the cash available for other purposes.. As of February 3, 2018, we have $4.232 billion in total indebtedness and we are highly leveraged. Our level of indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, to fund additional projects, working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service, and other general corporate or other obligations, as well as increase the risks to our business associated with general adverse economic and industry conditions. Our level of indebtedness may also place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged.  In addition, any future limitations on tax deductions for interest paid on outstanding indebtedness as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in December 2017 (the \"Tax Act\") could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity.. We are required to make quarterly repayments in a principal amount equal to $10.55 million during the seven-year term of the real estate term loan credit facility, subject to certain reductions for mandatory and optional prepayments. In addition, we are required to make prepayments of the real estate term loan credit facility with the proceeds of certain asset sales, insurance proceeds and excess cash flow, which could reduce the cash available for other purposes, including capital expenditures for store improvements, and could impact our ability to reinvest in other areas of our business.. 12. Table of Contents. There is no assurance that our internal and external sources of liquidity will at all times be sufficient for our cash requirements.. We must have sufficient sources of liquidity to fund our working capital requirements, capital improvement plans, service our outstanding indebtedness and finance investment opportunities. The principal sources of our liquidity are funds generated from operating activities, available cash and cash equivalents, borrowings under our credit facilities, other debt financings, equity financings and sales of non-operating assets. We expect our ability to generate cash through the sale of non-operating assets to diminish as our portfolio of non-operating assets decreases. In addition, our recent operating losses have limited our capital resources. Our ability to achieve our business and cash flow plans is based on a number of assumptions which involve significant judgments and estimates of future performance, borrowing capacity and credit availability, which cannot at all times be assured. Accordingly, there is no assurance that cash flows from operations and other internal and external sources of liquidity will at all times be sufficient for our cash requirements. If necessary, we may need to consider actions and steps to improve our cash position and mitigate any potential liquidity shortfall, such as modifying our business plan, pursuing additional financing to the extent available, reducing capital expenditures, pursuing and evaluating other alternatives and opportunities to obtain additional sources of liquidity and other potential actions to reduce costs. There can be no assurance that any of these actions would be successful, sufficient or available on favorable terms. Any inability to generate or obtain sufficient levels of liquidity to meet our cash requirements at the level and times needed could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial position.. Our ability to obtain any additional financing or any refinancing of our debt, if needed at any time, depends upon many factors, including our existing level of indebtedness and restrictions in our debt facilities, historical business performance, financial projections, prospects and creditworthiness and external economic conditions and general liquidity in the credit and capital markets. Any additional debt, equity or equity-linked financing may require modification of our existing debt agreements, which there is no assurance would be obtainable. Any additional financing or refinancing could also be extended only at higher costs and require us to satisfy more restrictive covenants, which could further limit or restrict our business and results of operations, or be dilutive to our stockholders.. Our use of interest rate hedging transactions could expose us to risks and financial losses that may adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.. To reduce our exposure to interest rate fluctuations, we have entered into, and in the future may enter into, interest rate swaps with various financial counterparties. The interest rate swap agreements effectively convert a portion of our variable rate interest payments to a fixed price. There can be no assurances, however, that our hedging activity will be effective in insulating us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. In addition, our hedging transactions may expose us to certain risks and financial losses, including, among other things:. • counterparty credit risk;. • the risk that the duration or amount of the hedge may not match the duration or amount of the related liability;. • the hedging transactions may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with accounting rules to reflect changes in fair values, downward adjustments or \"mark-to-market losses,\" which would affect our stockholders' equity; and. • the risk that we may not be able to meet the terms and conditions of the hedging instruments, in which case we may be required to settle the instruments prior to maturity with cash payments that could significantly affect our liquidity.. Further, we have designated the swaps as cash flow hedges in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. However, in the future, we may fail to qualify for hedge accounting treatment under these standards for a number of reasons, including if we fail to satisfy hedge documentation and hedge effectiveness assessment requirements or if the swaps are not highly effective. If we fail to qualify for hedge accounting treatment, losses on the swaps caused by the change in their fair value will be recognized as part of net income, rather than being recognized as part of other comprehensive income.. Operating results and cash flows may cause us to incur asset impairment charges.. Long-lived assets, primarily property and equipment, are reviewed at the store level at least annually for impairment, or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that a full recovery of net asset values through future cash flows is in question.  We also assess the recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets at least annually or whenever events or changes in. 13. Table of Contents. circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable. Our impairment review requires us to make estimates and projections regarding, but not limited to, sales, operating profit and future cash flows.  If our operating performance reflects a sustained decline, we may be exposed to significant asset impairment charges in future periods, which could be material to our results of operations.. Reductions in income and cash flow from our marketing and servicing arrangement related to our private label and co-branded credit cards could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows.. Synchrony Financial (\"Synchrony\") owns and services our private label credit card and co-branded MasterCard® programs. Our agreement with Synchrony provides for certain payments to be made by Synchrony to the Company, including a share of revenues from the performance of the credit card portfolios. The income and cash flow that the Company receives from Synchrony is dependent upon a number of factors including the level of sales on private label and co-branded accounts, the percentage of sales on private label and co-branded accounts relative to the Company's total sales, the level of balances carried on the accounts, payment rates on the accounts, finance charge rates and other fees on the accounts, the level of credit losses for the accounts, Synchrony's ability to extend credit to our customers as well as the cost of customer rewards programs. All of these factors can vary based on changes in federal and state credit card, banking and consumer protection laws, which could also materially limit the availability of credit to consumers or increase the cost of credit to our cardholders. The factors affecting the income and cash flow that the Company receives from Synchrony can also vary based on a variety of economic, legal, social and other factors that we cannot control. If the income or cash flow that the Company receives from our consumer credit card program agreement with Synchrony decreases, our operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected.. We are subject to risks associated with importing merchandise from foreign countries.. A substantial portion of our merchandise is sourced by our vendors and by us outside of the United States. All of our vendors must comply with our supplier legal compliance program and applicable laws, including consumer and product safety laws. Although we diversify our sourcing and production by country and supplier, the failure of a supplier to produce and deliver our goods on time, to meet our quality standards and adhere to our product safety requirements or to meet the requirements of our supplier compliance program or applicable laws, or our inability to flow merchandise to our stores or through the Internet channel in the right quantities at the right time, could adversely affect our profitability and could result in damage to our reputation.. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, there can be no assurance that suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could subject us to liability and could adversely affect our results of operations.. We are subject to the various risks of importing merchandise from abroad and purchasing product made in foreign countries, such as:. • potential disruptions in manufacturing, logistics and supply;. • changes in duties, tariffs, quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported merchandise;. • strikes and other events affecting delivery;. • consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise;. • product compliance with laws and regulations of the destination country;. • product liability claims from customers or penalties from government agencies relating to products that are recalled, defective or otherwise noncompliant or alleged to be harmful;. • concerns about human rights, working conditions and other labor rights and conditions and environmental impact in foreign countries where merchandise is produced and raw materials or components are sourced, and changing labor, environmental and other laws in these countries;. • local business practice and political issues that may result in adverse publicity or threatened or actual adverse consumer actions, including boycotts;. 14. Table of Contents. • compliance with laws and regulations concerning ethical business practices, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; and. • economic, political or other problems in countries from or through which merchandise is imported.. Political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, labor conditions, congestion and labor issues at major ports, transport capacity and costs, systems issues, problems in third party distribution and warehousing and other interruptions of the supply chain, compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations and other factors relating to international trade and imported merchandise beyond our control could affect the availability and the price of our inventory. These risks and other factors relating to foreign trade could subject us to liability or hinder our ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, developments in tax policy, such as the disallowance of tax deductions for imported merchandise, or the imposition of tariffs on imported merchandise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity.. Disruptions and congestion at ports through which we import merchandise may increase our costs and/or delay the receipt of goods in our stores, which could adversely impact our profitability, financial position and cash flows.. We ship the majority of our private brand merchandise by ocean to ports in the United States. Our national brand suppliers also ship merchandise by ocean. Disruptions in the operations of ports through which we import our merchandise, including but not limited to labor disputes involving work slowdowns, lockouts or strikes, could require us and/or our vendors to ship merchandise by air freight or to alternative ports in the United States. Shipping by air is significantly more expensive than shipping by ocean which could adversely affect our profitability. Similarly, shipping to alternative ports in the United States could result in increased lead times and transportation costs. Disruptions at ports through which we import our goods could also result in unanticipated inventory shortages, which could adversely impact our reputation and our results of operations.. Our Company's growth and profitability depend on the levels of consumer confidence and spending.. Our results of operations are sensitive to changes in overall economic and political conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Many economic factors outside of our control, including the housing market, interest rates, recession, inflation and deflation, energy costs and availability, consumer credit availability and terms, consumer debt levels, tax rates and policy, and unemployment trends influence consumer confidence and spending. The domestic and international political situation and actions also affect consumer confidence and spending. Additional events that could impact our performance include pandemics, terrorist threats and activities, worldwide military and domestic disturbances and conflicts, political instability and civil unrest. Declines in the level of consumer spending could adversely affect our growth and profitability.. Our business is seasonal, which impacts our results of operations.. Our annual earnings and cash flows depend to a great extent on the results of operations for the last quarter of our fiscal year, which includes the holiday season. Our fiscal fourth-quarter results may fluctuate significantly, based on many factors, including holiday spending patterns and weather conditions. This seasonality causes our operating results to vary considerably from quarter to quarter.. Our profitability may be impacted by weather conditions.. Our merchandise assortments reflect assumptions regarding expected weather patterns and our profitability depends on our ability to timely deliver seasonally appropriate inventory. Unseasonable or unexpected weather conditions such as warm temperatures during the winter season or prolonged or extreme periods of warm or cold temperatures could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with consumer needs. Extreme weather or natural disasters could also severely hinder our ability to timely deliver seasonally appropriate merchandise, preclude customers from traveling to our stores, delay capital improvements or cause us to close stores. A reduction in the demand for or supply of our seasonal merchandise could have an adverse effect on our inventory levels and results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. Changes in federal, state or local laws and regulations could increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations.. Our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations. Government intervention and activism and/or regulatory reform may result in substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations and/or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, which may lead to additional compliance costs as well as the diversion of our management's time and attention from strategic initiatives. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations we could be subject to legal risk, including government enforcement action and class action civil litigation that could disrupt our operations and increase our costs of doing business. Changes in the regulatory environment regarding topics such as privacy and information security, tax policy, product safety, environmental protection, including regulations in response to concerns regarding climate change, collective bargaining activities, minimum wage, wage and hour, and health care mandates, among others, as well as changes to applicable accounting rules and regulations, such as changes to lease accounting standards, could also cause our compliance costs to increase and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Legal and regulatory proceedings could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. Our Company is subject to various legal and regulatory proceedings relating to our business, certain of which may involve jurisdictions with reputations for aggressive application of laws and procedures against corporate defendants. We are impacted by trends in litigation, including class action litigation brought under various consumer protection, employment, and privacy and information security laws. In addition, litigation risks related to claims that technologies we use infringe intellectual property rights of third parties have been amplified by the increase in third parties whose primary business is to assert such claims. Reserves are established based on our best estimates of our potential liability. However, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation. Regardless of the outcome or whether the claims are meritorious, legal and regulatory proceedings may require that we devote substantial time and expense to defend our Company. Unfavorable rulings could result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Significant changes in discount rates, actual investment return on pension assets, and other factors could affect our earnings, equity, and pension contributions in future periods.. Our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of income or expense recorded for our qualified pension plan. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP) require that income or expense for the plan be calculated at the annual measurement date using actuarial assumptions and calculations. The most significant assumptions relate to the capital markets, interest rates and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can change the assumptions. Two critical assumptions used to estimate pension income or expense for the year are the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate. In addition, at the measurement date, we must also reflect the funded status of the plan (assets and liabilities) on the balance sheet, which may result in a significant change to equity through a reduction or increase to other comprehensive income. We may also experience volatility in the amount of the annual actuarial gains or losses recognized as income or expense because we have elected to recognize pension expense using mark-to-market accounting. Although GAAP expense and pension contributions are not directly related, the key economic factors that affect GAAP expense would also likely affect the amount of cash we could be required to contribute to the pension plan. Potential pension contributions include both mandatory amounts required under federal law and discretionary contributions to improve a plan's funded status.. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile.. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially and may continue to fluctuate significantly. Future announcements or disclosures concerning us or any of our competitors, our strategic initiatives, our sales and profitability, our financial condition, any quarterly variations in actual or anticipated operating results or comparable sales, any failure to meet analysts' expectations and sales of large blocks of our common stock, among other factors, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many retail and other stocks that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. This volatility could affect the price at which you could sell shares of our common stock.. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company's securities. The Company and certain of our former members of the Board of Directors and executives were defendants in a consolidated class action lawsuit and continue to be defendants in two related stockholder derivative actions that were filed following our announcement of an issuance of common stock on September 26, 2013. Such. 16. Table of Contents. litigation could result in substantial costs, divert our management's attention and resources and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company's ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes may be limited.. The Company has a federal net operating loss (NOL) of $2.1 billion as of February 3, 2018. These NOL carryforwards (expiring in 2032 through 2034) arose prior to December 31, 2017 and are available to offset future taxable income. The Company may recognize additional NOLs in the future which, under the Tax Act, would not expire but would only be available to offset up to 80% of the Company's future taxable income.. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), imposes an annual limitation on the amount of taxable income that may be offset by a corporation's NOLs if the corporation experiences an \"ownership change\" as defined in Section 382 of the Code. An ownership change occurs when the Company's \"five-percent shareholders\" (as defined in Section 382 of the Code) collectively increase their ownership in the Company by more than 50 percentage points (by value) over a rolling three-year period. Additionally, various states have similar limitations on the use of state NOLs following an ownership change.. If an ownership change occurs, the amount of the taxable income for any post-change year that may be offset by a pre-change loss is subject to an annual limitation that is cumulative to the extent it is not all utilized in a year. This limitation is derived by multiplying the fair market value of the Company stock as of the ownership change by the applicable federal long-term tax-exempt rate, which was 1.97% at February 3, 2018. To the extent that a company has a net unrealized built-in gain at the time of an ownership change, which is realized or deemed recognized during the five-year period following the ownership change, there is an increase in the annual limitation for each of the first five-years that is cumulative to the extent it is not all utilized in a year.. The Company has an ongoing study of the rolling three-year testing periods. Based upon the elections the Company has made and the information that has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission through February 3, 2018, the Company has not had a Section 382 ownership change through February 3, 2018.. If an ownership change should occur in the future, the Company's ability to use the NOL to offset future taxable income will be subject to an annual limitation and will depend on the amount of taxable income generated by the Company in future periods. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to fully utilize the NOL and the Company could be required to record an additional valuation allowance related to the amount of the NOL that may not be realized, which could impact the Company's result of operations.. We believe that these NOL carryforwards are a valuable asset for us. Consequently, we have a stockholder rights plan in place, which was approved by the Company's stockholders, to protect our NOLs during the effective period of the rights plan. Although the rights plan is intended to reduce the likelihood of an \"ownership change\" that could adversely affect us, there is no assurance that the restrictions on transferability in the rights plan will prevent all transfers that could result in such an \"ownership change\".. The rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or could discourage a third party from acquiring, our Company or a large block of our common stock.  A third party that acquires 4.9% or more of our common stock could suffer substantial dilution of its ownership interest under the terms of the rights plan through the issuance of common stock or common stock equivalents to all stockholders other than the acquiring person.. The foregoing provisions may adversely affect the marketability of our common stock by discouraging potential investors from acquiring our stock.  In addition, these provisions could delay or frustrate the removal of incumbent directors and could make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us, or impede an attempt to acquire a significant or controlling interest in us, even if such events might be beneficial to us and our stockholders."
