[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our business is sensitive to economic conditions and consumer spending.. We face numerous business risks relating to macroeconomic factors.  The retail industry is cyclical and consumer purchases of discretionary retail items, including our merchandise, generally decline during recessionary periods and other times when disposable income is lower.  Factors impacting discretionary consumer spending include general economic conditions, wages and employment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth based on severe market declines, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, volatility of fuel and energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence, political and economic uncertainty and other macroeconomic factors.  Deterioration in economic conditions or increasing unemployment levels may reduce the level of consumer spending and inhibit consumers' use of credit, which may adversely affect our revenues and profits.  In recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected, we may have to increase the number of promotional sales or otherwise dispose of inventory for which we have previously paid to manufacture, which could further adversely affect our profitability.  It is difficult to predict when or for how long any of these conditions can affect our business and a prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our inability to anticipate and respond to changing customer preferences and shifts in fashion and industry trends in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success largely depends on our ability to consistently gauge tastes and trends and provide a balanced assortment of merchandise that satisfies customer demands in a timely manner.  We enter into agreements to manufacture and purchase our merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season and our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in customer preferences, tastes and trends and economic conditions could lead to, among other things, missed opportunities, excess inventory or inventory shortages, markdowns and write-offs, all of which could negatively impact our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Failure to respond to changing customer preferences and fashion trends could also negatively impact our brand image with our customers and result in diminished brand loyalty.. Our inability to maintain our brand image, engage new and existing customers and gain market share could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy and our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to maintain our brand image and reputation is integral to our business, as well as the implementation of our strategy to grow.  Maintaining, promoting and growing our brand will depend largely on the success of our design,. 10. merchandising and marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high-quality customer experience.  Our reputation could be jeopardized if we fail to maintain high standards for merchandise quality and integrity and any negative publicity about these types of concerns may reduce demand for our merchandise.  While our brand enjoys a loyal customer base, the success of our growth strategy depends, in part, on our ability to keep existing customers engaged as well as attract new customers to shop our brand.  If we experience damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence, we may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our inability to manage our inventory levels and merchandise mix, including with respect to our omnichannel retail operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Customer demand is difficult to predict and the lead times required for a substantial portion of our merchandise make it challenging to respond quickly to changes.  Though we have the ability to source certain merchandise categories with shorter lead times, we generally enter into contracts for a substantial portion of our merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season.  Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to manage inventory levels and merchandise mix and respond to changes in customer demand patterns.  Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in lower than planned profitability.  On the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our merchandise, we may experience inventory shortages resulting in missed sales and lost revenues.  Either of these events could significantly affect our operating results and brand image and loyalty.  Our profitability may also be impacted by changes in our merchandise mix and changes in our pricing.  These changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, our omnichannel operations create additional complexities in our ability to manage inventory levels, as well as certain operational issues in stores and on our website, including timely shipping and returns.  Accordingly, our success depends to a large degree on continually evolving the processes and technology that enable us to plan and manage inventory levels and fulfill orders, address any related operational issues in store and on our website and further align channels to optimize our omnichannel operations.  If we are unable to successfully manage these complexities, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Competitive pressures from other retailers as well as adverse structural developments in the retail sector may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The women's apparel industry is highly competitive.  We compete with local, national and international retail chains and department stores, specialty and discount stores, catalogs and internet businesses offering similar categories of merchandise.  We face a variety of competitive challenges, including price pressure, anticipating and quickly responding to changing customer demands or preferences, maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our merchandise to our customers in diverse demographic markets, sourcing merchandise efficiently and developing merchandise assortments in styles that appeal to our customers in ways that favorably distinguish us from our competitors.  In addition, the internet and other new technologies facilitate competitive entry and comparison shopping.  We strive to offer an omnichannel shopping experience for our customers that enhances their shopping experiences.  Omnichannel retailing is constantly evolving and we must keep pace with changing customer expectations and new developments by our competitors.  Furthermore, many of our competitors have advantages over us, including substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources.  Increased levels of promotional activity by our competitors, some of whom may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can, both on our website and in stores, may negatively impact our sales and profitability.  There can be no assurances that we will be able to compete successfully with these companies in the future.  In addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable store locations, lease terms and qualified sales associates and professional staff.  Increased competition in these areas may result in higher costs and reduced profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to accurately forecast our operating results and growth rate, which may adversely affect our reported results.. We may not be able to accurately forecast our operating results and growth rate.  We use a variety of factors in our forecasting and planning processes, including historical results, recent history and assessments of economic and market conditions, among other things.  The growth rates in sales and profitability that we have experienced historically may not be sustainable as our active customer base expands and we achieve higher market penetration rates, and our percentage growth rates may decrease.  The growth of our sales and profitability depends on the continued growth of demand for the merchandise we offer.  A softening of demand, whether caused by changes in customer preferences or a weakening of the. 11. economy or other factors, may result in decreased net sales or growth.  Furthermore, many of our expenses and investments are fixed, and we may not be able to adjust our spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in our net sales results.  Failure to accurately forecast our operating results and growth rate could cause our actual results to be materially lower than anticipated, and if our growth rates decline as a result, investors' perceptions of our business may be adversely affected, and the market price of our common stock could decline.. Our inability to successfully optimize our omnichannel operations and maintain a relevant and reliable omnichannel experience for our customers could have an adverse effect on our growth strategy and our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Growing our business through our omnichannel operations is key to our growth strategy.  Our goal is to offer our customers seamless access to our merchandise across our channels, including both our direct and retail channels.  Accordingly, our success depends on our ability to anticipate and implement innovations in sales and marketing strategies to appeal to existing and potential customers who increasingly rely on multiple channels, such as E-commerce, to meet their shopping needs.  Failure to enhance our technology and marketing efforts to align with our customers' developing shopping preferences could significantly impair our ability to meet our strategic business and financial goals.  If we do not successfully optimize our omnichannel operations or if they do not achieve their intended objectives, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on our E-commerce business and failure to successfully manage this business and deliver a seamless omnichannel shopping experience to our customers could have an adverse effect on our growth strategy and our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Sales through our direct channel, of which our E-commerce business constitutes the vast majority, accounted for approximately 43% of our total net sales for fiscal year 2017.  Our business, financial condition and results of operations are dependent on maintaining our E-commerce business and expanding this business is an important part of our strategy to grow through our omnichannel operations.  Dependence on our E-commerce business and the continued growth of our direct and retail channels subjects us to certain risks, including:. •  the failure to successfully implement new systems, system enhancements and internet platforms;. •  the failure of our technology infrastructure or the computer systems that operate our website and their related support systems, causing, among other things, website downtimes, telecommunications issues or other technical failures;. •  the reliance on third-party computer hardware/software providers;. •  rapid technological change;. •  liability for online content;. •  violations of federal, state, foreign or other applicable laws, including those relating to data protection;. •  credit card fraud;. •  cyber security and vulnerability to electronic break-ins and other similar disruptions; and. •  diversion of traffic and sales from our stores.. Our failure to successfully address and respond to these risks and uncertainties could negatively impact sales, increase costs, diminish our growth prospects and damage the reputation of our brand, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business depends on effective marketing and increasing customer traffic and the success of our direct channel depends on customers' use of our website and response to catalogs and digital marketing.. We have many initiatives in our marketing programs.  If our competitors increase their spending on marketing, if our marketing expenses increase, if our marketing becomes less effective than that of our competitors, or if we do not adequately leverage technology and data analytics needed to generate concise competitive insight, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  A failure to sufficiently innovate or maintain adequate and effective marketing strategies could inhibit our ability to maintain brand relevance and increase sales.. In particular, the level of customer traffic and volume of customer purchases through our direct channel, which accounted for approximately 43% of our net sales for fiscal year 2017, is substantially dependent on our ability to provide a content-rich and user-friendly website, widely distributed and informative catalogs, a fun, easy and hassle-free customer experience and reliable delivery of our merchandise.  If we are unable to maintain and increase customers' use of our E-. 12. commerce platform, and the volume of purchases declines, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Customer response to our catalogs and digital marketing is substantially dependent on merchandise assortment, merchandise availability and creative presentation, as well as the selection of customers to whom our catalogs are sent and to whom our digital marketing is directed, changes in mailing strategies and the size of our mailings.  Our maintenance of a robust customer database has also been a key component of our overall strategy.  If the performance of our website, catalogs and email declines, or if our overall marketing strategy is not successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We occupy our stores under long-term leases, which are subject to future increases in occupancy costs and which we may be unable to renew or may limit our flexibility to move to new locations.. We lease all of our store locations, our corporate headquarters and our distribution and customer contact center.  We typically occupy our stores under operating leases with terms of up to ten years, which may include options to renew for additional multi-year periods thereafter.  We depend on cash flow from operations to pay our lease expenses.  If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to fund these expenses, we may not be able to service our lease expenses, which could materially harm our business.  In the future, we may not be able to negotiate favorable lease terms.  Our inability to do so may cause our occupancy costs to be higher in future years or may force us to close stores in desirable locations.  If we are unable to renew our store leases, we may be forced to close or relocate a store, which could subject us to significant construction and other costs.  Closing a store, for even a brief period to permit relocation, would reduce the revenue contribution of that store.  Additionally, the revenue and profit, if any, generated at a relocated store may not equal the revenue and profit generated at the previous location.. Long-term leases can limit our flexibility to move a store to a new location.  Some of our leases have early cancellation clauses, which permit the lease to be terminated if certain sales levels are not met in specific periods, whereas some of our leases are non-cancelable.  If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we have the right to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term.  Moreover, even if a lease has an early cancellation clause, we may not satisfy the contractual requirements for early cancellation under that lease.  Our inability to enter into new leases or renew existing leases on terms acceptable to us or be released from our obligations under leases for stores that we close could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to open and operate new retail stores on a profitable basis and if we are not successful in implementing future retail store expansion, or if such new stores would negatively impact sales from our existing stores or from our direct channel, our growth and profitability could be adversely impacted.. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to open and operate new retail stores on a profitable basis.  We may be unable to identify and open new retail locations in desirable places in the future.  We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable retail locations.  Local land use, local zoning issues, environmental regulations, governmental permits and approvals and other regulations may affect our ability to find suitable retail locations and also influence the cost of leasing them.  We also may have difficulty negotiating real estate leases for new stores on acceptable terms.  In addition, construction, environmental, zoning and real estate delays may negatively affect retail location openings and increase costs and capital expenditures.  If we are unable to open new retail store locations in desirable places and on favorable terms, our net sales and profits could be materially adversely affected.. As we expand our store base, our lease expense and our cash outlays for rent under the lease terms will increase.  Such growth will require that we continue to expand and improve our operating capabilities, including making investments in our information technology and operational infrastructure, and expand, train and manage our employee base, and we may be unable to do so.  We primarily rely on cash flow generated from our operations to pay our lease expenses and to fund our growth initiatives.  It requires a significant investment to open a new retail store.  If we open a large number of stores relatively close in time, the cost of these retail store openings and lease expenses and the cost of continuing operations could reduce our cash position.  If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to fund these expenses, we may not have sufficient cash available to address other aspects of our business or we may be unable to service our lease expenses, which could materially harm our business.. As we increase the number of retail stores, our stores may become more highly concentrated in geographic regions we already serve.  As a result, the number of customers and related net sales at individual stores may decline and the payback. 13. period may be increased.  The growth in the number of our retail stores could also draw customers away from our direct business and if our competitors open stores with similar formats, our retail store format may become less unique and may be less attractive to customers as a shopping destination.  If either of these events occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. There can be no assurances that we will be able to achieve our store expansion goals, nor can there be any assurances that our newly opened stores will achieve revenue or profitability levels comparable to those of our existing stores in the time periods estimated by us.  In addition, the substantial management time and resources which our retail store expansion strategy requires may result in disruption to our existing business operations which may decrease our profitability.  If our stores fail to achieve, or are unable to sustain, acceptable revenue, profitability and cash flow levels, we may incur store asset impairment charges, significant costs associated with closing those stores or both, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on third-party service providers, such as Federal Express and the U.S. Postal Service, for the delivery of our merchandise and our catalogs.. We primarily utilize Federal Express to support retail store shipping.  We also use the U.S. Postal Service to deliver millions of catalogs each year, and we depend on third parties to print and mail our catalogs.  As a result, postal rate increases and paper and printing costs will affect the cost of our catalog and promotional mailings.  We rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as discounts for bulk mailings and sorting.  The operational and financial difficulties of the U.S. Postal Service are well documented.  Any significant and unanticipated increase in postage, shipping costs, reduction in service, slow-down in delivery or increase in paper and printing costs could impair our ability to deliver merchandise and catalogs in a timely or economically efficient manner and could adversely impact our profitability if we are unable to pass such increases directly on to our customers or if we are unable to implement more efficient delivery and order fulfillment systems, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Competitive pricing pressures with respect to shipping our merchandise to our customers may harm our business and results of operations.. Historically, the shipping and handling fees we charge our direct customers are intended to recover the related shipping and handling expenses.  Online and omnichannel retailers are increasing their focus on delivery services, as customers are increasingly seeking faster, guaranteed delivery times and low-price or free shipping.  To remain competitive, we may be required to offer discounted, free or other more competitive shipping options to our customers, which may result in declines in our shipping and handling fees and increased shipping and handling expense.  Declines in the shipping and handling fees that we generate may have a material adverse effect on our profitability to the extent that our shipping and handling expense is not declining proportionally, or if our shipping and handling expense would increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to payment-related risks.. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit cards, debit cards, gift cards, cash and bank checks.  For existing and future payment methods we offer to our customers, we may become subject to additional regulations and compliance requirements (including obligations to implement enhanced authentication processes that could result in increased costs and reduce the ease of use of certain payment methods), as well as fraud.  For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time, thereby raising our operating costs and lowering profitability.  We rely on third-party service providers for payment processing services, including the processing of credit and debit cards.  In each case, it could disrupt our business if these third-party service providers become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us.  We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply.  If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, or if our data security systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for card issuing banks' and others' costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees and/or lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers and process electronic funds transfers or facilitate other types of payments.  Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. On October 1, 2015, under payment card industry standards, liability shifted for certain debit and credit card transactions to retailers who do not accept Europay, MasterCard and Visa (\"EMV\") chip technology transactions.  In response, we have completed the implementation of EMV chip technology in our stores as of fiscal year 2017.. 14. If we fail to acquire new customers in a cost-effective manner, it could have an adverse impact on our growth strategy as we may not be able to increase net revenue or profit per active customer.. The success of our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to acquire new customers in a cost-effective manner.  In order to expand our active customer base, we must appeal to and acquire customers who identify with our brand.  We have made significant investments related to customer acquisition and expect to continue to spend significant amounts to acquire additional customers.  As our brand becomes more widely known in the market, future marketing campaigns may not result in the acquisition of new customers at the same rate as past campaigns.  There can be no assurances that the revenue from new customers we acquire will ultimately exceed the cost of acquiring those customers.. We use paid and non-paid advertising.  Our paid advertising includes catalogs, paid search engine marketing, email, display and other advertising.  Our non-paid advertising efforts include search engine optimization and social media.  We obtain a significant amount of traffic via search engines and, therefore, rely on search engines such as Google, Yahoo! and Bing.  Search engines frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of a user's search, such that the purchased or algorithmic placement of links to our site can be negatively affected.  A major search engine could change its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects our paid or non-paid search ranking, and competitive dynamics could impact the effectiveness of search engine marketing or search engine optimization.  We also obtain traffic via social networking websites or other channels used by our current and prospective customers.  As E-commerce and social networking continue to rapidly evolve, we must continue to establish relationships with these channels and may be unable to develop or maintain these relationships on acceptable terms.  Additionally, digital advertising costs may continue to rise and as our usage of these channels expands, such costs may impact our ability to acquire new customers in a cost-effective manner.  If the level of usage of these channels by our active customer base does not grow as expected, we may suffer a decline in customer growth or net sales.  If we are unable to acquire new customers in a cost-effective manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Interruptions in our foreign sourcing operations and the relationships with our suppliers and agents could disrupt production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise, which would result in lost sales and increased costs.. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third-party suppliers for the manufacturing of all of our merchandise, primarily through the use of agents.  In fiscal year 2017, approximately 82% of our products were sourced through agents and 18% were sourced directly from suppliers and factories.  Our merchandise is manufactured to our specifications primarily by factories outside of the United States.  Some of the factors that might affect a supplier's ability to ship orders of our merchandise in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards are outside of our control, including inclement weather, natural disasters, political and financial instability, legal and regulatory developments, strikes, health concerns regarding infectious diseases, and acts of terrorism.  Inadequate labor conditions, health or safety issues in the factories where goods are produced can negatively impact our brand's reputation.  Late delivery of merchandise or delivery of merchandise that does not meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers or delay timely delivery of merchandise to our stores for those items.  These events could cause us to fail to meet customer expectations, cause our customers to cancel orders or cause us to be unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of sufficient quality to our stores, which could result in lost sales.. We have no long-term merchandise supply contracts as we typically transact business on an order-by-order basis.  If we are unable to maintain the relationships with our suppliers and agents and are unexpectedly required to change suppliers or agents, or if a key supplier or agent is unable or unwilling to supply acceptable merchandise in sufficient quantities on acceptable terms, we could experience a significant disruption in the supply of merchandise.  We could also experience operational difficulties with our suppliers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, supply chain disruptions, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control, shortages of fabrics or other raw materials, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs.. We source our imported merchandise from six countries with the top three by volume including China, India, and the Philippines. Approximately 85% of our products were sourced in southeast Asia in fiscal year 2017.  Any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from Asia or elsewhere, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, could materially harm our operations.  Many of our imports are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be imported into the United States from countries in Asia or elsewhere.  We compete with other companies for production facilities and import quota capacity.  While substantially all of our foreign purchases of our merchandise are negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars, the cost of our merchandise may be affected by fluctuations in the value of relevant foreign currencies.. 15. In addition, we are engaging in growing the amount of production carried out in other developing countries.  These countries may present other risks with regard to infrastructure available to support manufacturing, labor and employee relations, political and economic stability, corruption, regulatory, environmental, health and safety compliance.  While we endeavor to monitor and audit facilities where our production is done, any significant events with factories we use can adversely impact our reputation, brand and product delivery.. Furthermore, many of our suppliers rely on working capital financing to support their operations.  To the extent any of our suppliers are unable to obtain adequate credit or their borrowing costs increase, we may experience delays in obtaining merchandise, our suppliers increasing their prices or our suppliers modifying payment terms in a manner that is unfavorable to us.. The failure of our suppliers to comply with our social compliance program requirements could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. We require our third-party suppliers to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, as well as our Terms of Engagement-Commitment to Ethical Sourcing, which cover many areas, including labor, health, safety, environmental and other legal standards.  We monitor compliance with these standards using third-party monitoring firms.  Although we have an active program to provide training for our third-party suppliers and monitor their compliance with these standards, we do not control the suppliers or their practices.  Any failure of our third-party suppliers to comply with our ethical sourcing standards or labor or other local laws in the country of manufacture, or the divergence of a third-party supplier's labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could disrupt the shipment of merchandise to our stores, force us to locate alternative manufacturing sources, reduce demand for our merchandise, damage our reputation and/or expose us to potential liability for their wrongdoings.  Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on third parties to provide services in connection with certain aspects of our business, and any failure by these third parties to perform their obligations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have entered into agreements with third parties that include, but are not limited to, logistics services, information technology systems (including hosting our website), servicing certain customer calls, software development and support, catalog production, select marketing services, distribution and employee benefits servicing.  Services provided by third-party suppliers could be interrupted as a result of many factors, such as acts of nature or contract disputes.  Any failure by a third party to provide services for which we have contracted on a timely basis or within expected service level and performance standards could result in a disruption of our business and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Increases in the demand for, or the price of, cotton and other raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise or other fluctuations in sourcing or distribution costs could increase our costs and negatively impact our profitability.. We believe that we have strong supplier relationships, and we work continuously with our suppliers to manage cost increases.  Our overall profitability depends, in part, on the success of our ability to mitigate rising costs or shortages of raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise.  Cotton and other raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise are subject to availability constraints and price volatility impacted by a number of factors, including supply and demand for fabrics, weather, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors.  In addition, our sourcing costs may fluctuate due to labor conditions, transportation or freight costs, energy prices, currency fluctuations or other unpredictable factors.  The cost of labor at many of our third-party suppliers has been increasing in recent years, and we believe it is unlikely that such cost pressures will abate.. Most of our merchandise is shipped from our suppliers by ocean vessel.  If a disruption occurs in the operation of ports through which our merchandise is imported, we may incur increased costs related to air freight or use of alternative ports.  Shipping by air is significantly more expensive than shipping by ocean and our margins and profitability could be reduced.  Shipping to alternative ports could also lead to delays in receipt of our merchandise.  We rely on third-party shipping companies to deliver our merchandise to us.  Failures by these shipping companies to deliver our merchandise to us or lack of capacity in the shipping industry could lead to delays in receipt of our merchandise or increased expense in the delivery of our merchandise.  Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 16. Reductions in the volume of mall traffic or the closing of shopping malls as a result of changing economic conditions or demographic patterns could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with unsold inventory.. A significant portion of our stores are currently located in shopping malls.  Sales at stores located in malls are highly dependent on the traffic in those malls and the ability of developers to generate traffic near our stores.  In recent years, there has been increased purchasing of merchandise online.  This has adversely affected mall traffic.  A continuation of this trend could adversely impact the sales generated by our mall stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Unseasonal or severe weather conditions may adversely affect our merchandise sales.. Our business is adversely affected by unseasonal weather conditions.  Sales of certain seasonal apparel items are dependent in part on the weather and may decline when weather conditions do not favor the use of this apparel.  Severe weather events may also impact our ability to supply our retail stores, deliver orders to customers on schedule and staff our retail stores and distribution and customer contact center, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Material damage to, or interruptions in, our information systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of our customers' information.. We depend largely upon our information technology systems in the conduct of all aspects of our operations, including to operate our website, process transactions, respond to customer inquiries, manage inventory, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-efficient operations.  Such systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches and natural disasters.  Damage or interruption to our information technology systems may require a significant investment to fix or replace the affected system, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim.  In addition, costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations.. Additionally, a significant number of customer purchases across our omnichannel platform are made using credit cards, and a significant number of our customer orders are placed through our website.  We process, store and transmit large amounts of data, including personal information, for our customers.  From time to time, we may implement strategic initiatives related to elevating our customer service experience, such as customer membership programs, where we collect and maintain increasing amounts of customer data.  We also handle and transmit sensitive information about our suppliers and workforce, including social security numbers, bank account information and health and medical information.  We depend in part throughout our operations on the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks.  In addition, security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including vandalism, catastrophic events and human error.  Our operations may further be impacted by security breaches that occur at third-party suppliers.  Although we maintain cyber-security insurance, there can be no assurances that our insurance coverage will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be paid to us in a timely manner.. States and the federal government have enacted additional laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft, including laws governing treatment of personally identifiable information.  As the data privacy and security laws and regulations evolve, we may be subject to more extensive requirements to protect the customer information that we process in connection with the purchases of our merchandise.  There can be no assurances that we will be able to operate our operations in accordance with Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI DSS), other industry recommended practices or applicable laws and regulations or any future security standards or regulations, or that meeting those standards will in fact prevent a data breach.  These laws have increased the costs of doing business and, if we fail to implement appropriate safeguards or we fail to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws, we could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies.. If a third party is able to circumvent our security measures, they could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations.  Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.  Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, fines, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and harm our reputation.  In addition, we could be required to expend significant resources to. 17. change our business practices or modify our service offerings in connection with the protection of personally identifiable information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The impact of privacy breaches at service providers could also severely damage our business and reputation.. We rely heavily on technology services provided by third parties for the successful operation of our business, including electronic messaging, digital marketing efforts and the collection and retention of customer data and associate information.  We also rely on third parties to process credit card transactions, perform E-commerce and social media activities and retain data relating to our financial position and results of operations, strategic initiatives and other important information.  The facilities and systems of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to cyber-security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events.  Any actual or perceived misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential or personally identifiable information by our third-party service providers could severely damage our reputation and our relationship with our customers, associates and investors as well as expose us to risks of litigation, liability or other penalties, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our failure to comply with data protection laws and regulations could subject us to sanctions and damages and could harm our reputation and business.. We collect and process personal data as part of our business.  As a result, we are subject to U.S. data protection laws and regulations at both the federal and state levels.  The legislative and regulatory landscape for data protection continues to evolve, and in recent years there has been an increasing focus on privacy and data security issues.  The strategic use of our customer data base, including interactions with our customers, marketing efforts and analysis of customer behavior, rely on the collection, retention and use of customer data and may be affected by these laws and regulations and their interpretation and enforcement.  Alleged violations of laws, regulations or contractual obligations relating to privacy and data protection, and any relevant claims, may expose us to potential liability, require us to expend significant resources in responding to and defending such allegations and claims, and result in negative publicity and a loss of confidence in us by our customers, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Further, it is unclear how the laws and regulations relating to the collection, process and use of personal data will further develop in the United States, and to what extent this may affect our operations in the future.  Any failure to comply with data protection laws and regulations, or future changes required to the way in which we use personal data, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Increased usage of social media poses reputational risks.. As use of social media becomes more prevalent, our susceptibility to risks related to social media increases.  The immediacy of social media precludes us from having real-time control over postings made regarding us via social media, whether matters of fact or opinion.  Information distributed via social media could result in immediate unfavorable publicity for which we, like our competitors, do not have the ability to reverse.  This unfavorable publicity could result in damage to our reputation and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on our executive management and key personnel and may not be able to retain or replace these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which could harm our business.. The loss of the services of any of our senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as we may not be able to find suitable management personnel to replace departing executives on a timely basis.  In addition, as our business expands, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel.  There is a high level of competition for personnel in the retail industry.  Our inability to meet our staffing requirements in the future could impair our ability to increase revenue and could otherwise harm our business.. Our failure to find store employees that reflect our brand image and embody our culture could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of store employees, including store managers, who understand and appreciate our culture and customers, and are able to adequately and effectively represent this culture and establish credibility with our customers.  The store employee turnover rate in the retail industry is generally high.  Labor shortages and excessive store employee turnover will result in higher employee costs. 18. associated with finding, hiring and training new store employees.  If we are unable to hire and retain store personnel capable of consistently providing a high level of customer service, our ability to open new stores and operate existing stores may be impaired and our performance and brand image may be negatively impacted.  Competition for such qualified individuals and wage increases by other retailers could require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees.  We are also dependent upon temporary personnel to adequately staff our stores and distribution and customer contact center, with heightened dependence during busy periods such as the holiday season.  There can be no assurances that there will be sufficient sources of suitable temporary personnel to meet our demand.  Any such failure to meet our staffing needs or any material increases in employee turnover rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Labor organizing and other activities could negatively impact us.. Currently, none of our employees are represented by a union.  However, our employees have the right at any time to form or affiliate with a union.  Such organizing activities could lead to work slowdowns or stoppages, which could lead to disruption in our operations and increases in our labor costs, either of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Increases in labor costs, including wages, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The labor costs associated with our retail stores and our distribution and customer contact center are subject to many external factors, including unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage laws, potential collective bargaining arrangements, health insurance costs and other insurance costs and changes in employment and labor legislation or other workplace regulation.  From time to time, legislative proposals are made to increase the federal minimum wage in the United States, as well as the minimum wage in a number of individual states and municipalities, and to reform entitlement programs, such as health insurance and paid leave programs.  As minimum wage rates increase or related laws and regulations change, our labor costs may increase.  Any increase in the cost of our labor could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or if we fail to pay such higher wages we could suffer increased employee turnover.  Increases in labor costs could force us to increase prices, which could adversely impact our sales.  If competitive pressures or other factors prevent us from offsetting increased labor costs by increases in prices, our profitability may decline and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We could be materially and adversely affected if our distribution and customer contact center is damaged or closed or if its operations are diminished.. Our distribution and customer contact center is located in Tilton, New Hampshire.  The distribution center manages the receipt, storage, sorting, packing and distribution of merchandise to our stores and to our direct customers.  Independent third-party transportation companies then deliver merchandise from the distribution center to our stores or direct to our customers.  The customer contact center handles all customer interactions, other than those in retail stores, including phone sales orders and service calls, emails and internet contacts.  Any significant interruption in the operations of our Tilton distribution and customer contact center, our third-party distribution, fulfillment or transportation providers, for any reason, including natural disasters, accidents, inclement weather, technology system failures, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes or other unforeseen events and circumstances, could delay or impair our ability to receive orders and to distribute merchandise to our stores and/or our customers.  This could lead to inventory issues, increased costs, lower sales and a loss of loyalty to our brand, among other things, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Inventory shrinkage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to the risk of inventory loss and theft.  Although our inventory shrinkage rates have not been material, or fluctuated significantly in recent years, there can be no assurances that actual rates of inventory loss and theft in the future will be within our estimates or that the measures we are taking will effectively reduce inventory shrinkage.  Although some level of inventory shrinkage is an unavoidable cost of doing business, if we were to experience higher rates of inventory shrinkage or incur increased security costs to combat inventory theft, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 19. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights.. We believe that our trademarks and service marks are important to our success and our competitive position due to their name recognition with our customers.  We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and service marks.  We are not aware of any valid claims of infringement or challenges to our right to use any of our trademarks and service marks.  Nevertheless, there can be no assurances that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and service marks will be adequate to prevent imitation of our merchandise by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our merchandise as a violation of the trademarks, service marks and intellectual property of others.  Also, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other intellectual property and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction.. We may be subject to liability if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties.. Third parties may sue us for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights.  The party claiming infringement might have greater resources than we do to pursue its claims, and we could be forced to incur substantial costs and devote significant management resources to defend against such litigation.  If the party claiming infringement were to prevail, we could be forced to discontinue the use of the related trademark or design and/or pay significant damages or enter into expensive royalty or licensing arrangements with the prevailing party, assuming these royalty or licensing arrangements are available at all on an economically feasible basis, which they may not be.  We could also be required to pay substantial damages.  Such infringement claims could harm our brand.  In addition, any payments we are required to make and any injunction we are required to comply with as a result of such infringement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate and changes to the regulatory environment in which we operate or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business requires compliance with many laws and regulations in the United States and abroad, including, without limitation, labor and employment, tax, environmental, privacy, anti-bribery laws and regulations, trade laws and customs, truth-in-advertising, E-commerce, consumer protection and zoning and occupancy laws and ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of stores and warehouse facilities.  In addition, in the future, there may be new legal or regulatory requirements or more stringent interpretations of applicable requirements, which could increase the complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance.  While it is our policy and practice to comply with all legal and regulatory requirements and our procedures and internal controls are designed to ensure such compliance, failure to achieve compliance could subject us to lawsuits and other proceedings, and could also lead to damage awards, fines and penalties.  Litigation matters may include, among other things, government and agency investigations, employment, commercial, intellectual property, tort, advertising and stockholder claims.  We cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies.  The outcome of some of these legal proceedings, audits and other contingencies could require us to take, or refrain from taking, actions which could negatively affect our operations or require us to pay substantial amounts of money adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Even a claim of an alleged violation of applicable laws or regulations could negatively affect our reputation.  Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may be necessary, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources, causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Any pending or future legal proceedings and audits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in tax laws and regulations or in our operations may impact our effective tax rate and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Changes in tax laws in any of the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, or adverse outcomes from tax audits that we may be subject to in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate, could result in an unfavorable change in our effective tax rate, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. Additionally, the current U.S. administration has publicly supported changes with respect to tax and trade policies, tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries.  We source the majority of our merchandise from manufacturers located outside of the U.S., including a significant amount from Asia.  Major developments in tax policy or trade relations, such as the disallowance of tax deductions for imported merchandise or the imposition of. 20. unilateral tariffs on imported products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity.. The recently enacted comprehensive U.S. tax reform legislation could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted that significantly revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The newly enacted federal income tax law contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including but not limited to, a reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, a limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits.  Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, it is unclear how certain provisions of the new federal tax law will be applied absent further legislative clarification and guidance. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law. These uncertainties and the ultimate interpretation of the federal provisions may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. War, terrorism, civil unrest or other violence may negatively impact availability of merchandise and/or otherwise adversely impact our business.. In the event of war, terrorism, civil unrest or other violence, our ability to obtain merchandise available for sale in our stores or on our websites may be negatively impacted.  A substantial portion of our merchandise is imported from other countries, see \" - Interruptions in our foreign sourcing operations and the relationships with our suppliers and agents could disrupt production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise, which would result in lost sales and could increase our costs.\" If commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution and customer contact center and stores, as well as fulfilling catalog and website orders.  In addition, our stores are located in public areas where large numbers of people typically gather.  Terrorist attacks, threats of terrorist attacks or civil unrest involving public areas could cause people not to visit areas where our stores are located.  Other types of violence in malls or in other public areas could lead to lower customer traffic in areas in which we operate stores.  If any of these events were to occur, we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The terms of our term loan credit agreement and asset-based revolving credit facility restrict our operational and financial flexibility, which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and to manage our operations.. Our term loan credit agreement, dated as of May 8, 2015, by and among Jill Holdings LLC, Jill Acquisition LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of us, the various lenders party thereto and Jefferies Finance LLC as the administrative agent, as amended on May 27, 2016 by Amendment No. 1 thereto (the \"Term Loan\") and our ABL credit agreement, dated as of May 8, 2015, by and among Jill Holdings LLC, Jill Acquisition LLC, certain subsidiaries from time to time party thereto, the lenders party thereto and CIT Finance LLC as the administrative agent and collateral agent, as amended on May 27, 2016 by Amendment No. 1 thereto (the \"ABL Facility\" and, together with the Term Loan, the \"Credit Agreements\"), contain, and any additional debt financing we may incur would likely contain, covenants that restrict our operations, including limitations on our ability to grant liens, incur additional debt, pay dividends, cause our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us, make certain investments and engage in certain merger, consolidation or asset sale transactions.  A failure by us to comply with the covenants or financial ratios contained in our Credit Agreements could result in an event of default, which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations.  Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be due and payable and exercise other remedies as set forth in our Credit Agreements.  If the indebtedness under our Credit Agreements were to be accelerated, our future financial condition could be materially adversely affected.  See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Credit Facilities.\". Changes to estimates related to our property, fixtures and equipment or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain store locations may cause us to incur impairment charges on certain long-lived assets, which may adversely affect our results of operations.. In accordance with accounting guidance as it relates to the impairment of long-lived assets, we make certain estimates and projections with regard to individual store operations, as well as our overall performance, in connection with our impairment analyses for long-lived assets.  When impairment triggers are deemed to exist for any location, the estimated undiscounted future cash flows are compared to its carrying value.  If the carrying value exceeds the undiscounted cash. 21. flows, an impairment charge equal to the difference between the carrying value and the fair value is recorded.  The projections of future cash flows used in these analyses require the use of judgment and a number of estimates and projections of future operating results.  If actual results differ from our estimates, additional charges for asset impairments may be required in the future.  If future impairment charges are significant, our reported operating results would be adversely affected.. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets represent a significant portion of our total assets and any impairment of these assets could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which consist of goodwill from the Acquisition, and our trade name, represented a significant portion of our total assets as of February 3, 2018.  Accounting rules require the evaluation of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable.  Such indicators are based on market conditions and the operational performance of our business.. To test goodwill for impairment, we may initially use a qualitative approach to determine whether conditions exist to indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.  If our management concludes, based on its assessment of relevant events, facts and circumstances that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's carrying value is greater than its fair value, then a quantitative analysis will be performed to determine if there is any impairment.  We also have the option to bypass the qualitative assessment and proceed directly to the quantitative assessment. The quantitative assessment requires comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. We estimate the fair value of reporting units using the income approach. The income approach uses a discounted cash flow model, which involves significant estimates and assumptions, including preparation of revenue and profitability growth forecasts, selection of a discount rate, and selection of a terminal year multiple.  The estimates of fair value of reporting units are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill is not considered to be impaired and no further testing is required. If the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value, a goodwill impairment charge is recognized for the amount in excess, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.. To test our other indefinite-lived assets for impairment, which consists of our trade name, we determine the fair value of our trade name using the relief-from-royalty method, which estimates the present value of royalty income that could be hypothetically earned by licensing the brand name to a third party over the remaining useful life.  If in conducting an impairment evaluation we determine that the carrying value of an asset exceeded its fair value, we would be required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the asset.  If a significant amount of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets were deemed to be impaired, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition.. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, including but not limited to revenue recognition, business combinations, impairment of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets, inventory and equity-based compensation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments.  Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition.. Changes in lease accounting standards may materially and adversely affect us.. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, recently adopted new accounting rules, to be effective for our fiscal year beginning after December 2018 that will require companies to capitalize all leases on their balance sheets by recognizing a lessee's rights and obligations.  When the rules are effective, we will be required to account for the leases for stores as assets and liabilities on our balance sheet, where previously we accounted for such leases on an \"off balance sheet\" basis.  As a result, a significant amount of lease related assets and liabilities will be recorded on our balance sheet and we may be required to make other changes to the recording and classification of our lease related expenses.  Though these changes will not have any direct impact on our overall financial condition, these changes could cause investors or others to believe that we are highly leveraged and could change the calculations of financial metrics and covenants under our debt facilities, as well as third-party financial models regarding our financial condition.. 22. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and are taking advantage of reduced disclosure requirements applicable to \"emerging growth companies,\" which could make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or JOBS Act, and, for as long as we continue to be an \"emerging growth company,\" we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to \"emerging growth companies.\" These exemptions include not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.  We could be an \"emerging growth company\" for up to five years, or until the earliest of (i) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues exceed $1.07 billion, (ii) the date that we become a \"large accelerated filer\" as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, which would occur if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, or (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during the preceding three-year period.  We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions.  If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of any choices to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. We will incur significantly increased costs and devote substantial management time as a result of operating as a public company particularly after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\". As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company.  For example, we are required to comply with certain of the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the NYSE, our stock exchange, including the establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices.  We expect that compliance with these requirements will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time consuming and costly.  In addition, we expect that our management and other personnel will need to divert attention from operational and other business matters to devote substantial time to these public company requirements.  In particular, we expect to incur significant expenses and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.. However, for as long as we remain an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act, we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies\" including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.  We intend to take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\". Under the JOBS Act, \"emerging growth companies\" can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies.  We have elected to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, while we are an \"emerging growth company\" we will not be subject to new or revised accounting standards at the same time that they become applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies\". Accordingly, we will incur additional costs in connections with complying with the accounting standards applicable to public companies at such time or times as they become applicable to us.. After we are no longer an \"emerging growth company,\" we expect to incur additional management time and cost to comply with the more stringent reporting requirements applicable to companies that are deemed accelerated filers or large accelerated filers, including complying with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur as a result of becoming a public company or the timing of such costs.. 23. If we are unable to design, implement and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. As a public company, we have significant requirements for enhanced financial reporting and internal controls.  The process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company.  If we are unable to maintain appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations on a timely basis, result in material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements and harm our operating results.  In addition, we are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment includes disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. Testing and maintaining internal controls may divert our management's attention from other matters that are important to our business.  We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for and intend to rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.. TowerBrook controls a majority of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock, and as a result we are a controlled company within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards.  Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another person or group of persons acting together is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that:. •  a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors;. •  the nominating and corporate governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities;. •  the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and. •  there be an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees.. These requirements do not apply to us as long as we remain a controlled company.  Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE.. We continue to be controlled by TowerBrook, and TowerBrook's interests may conflict with our interests and the interests of other stockholders.. TowerBrook owns approximately 59% of our common stock.  As a result, TowerBrook will have effective control over the outcome of votes on all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including entering into significant corporate transactions such as mergers, tender offers and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and issuance of additional debt or equity.  In addition, as long as TowerBrook beneficially owns at least 50% of our common stock, a Stockholders Agreement provides TowerBrook with veto rights with respect to certain material matters.  The interests of TowerBrook and its affiliates could conflict with or differ from our interests or the interests of our other stockholders.  For example, the concentration of ownership held by TowerBrook could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of our company or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination which may otherwise be favorable for us.  Additionally, TowerBrook is in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete, directly or indirectly with us.  TowerBrook may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us.  So long as TowerBrook continues to directly or indirectly own a significant amount of our equity, even if such amount is less than 50%, TowerBrook will continue to be able to substantially influence or effectively control our ability to enter into corporate transactions.. Our certificate of incorporation contains a provision renouncing our interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities.. Our certificate of incorporation provides for the allocation of certain corporate opportunities between us and TowerBrook.  Under these provisions, neither TowerBrook, its portfolio companies, funds or other affiliates, nor any of their officers, directors, agents, stockholders, members or partners have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in. 24. the same business activities, similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate.  For instance, a director of our company who also serves as a director, officer, partner or employee of TowerBrook or any of its portfolio companies, funds or other affiliates may pursue certain acquisitions or other opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, such acquisition or other opportunities may not be available to us.  These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by TowerBrook to itself or its portfolio companies, funds or other affiliates instead of to us.. Provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage our acquisition by a third party.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval.  If the board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us.  In addition, some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders.. Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the \"DGCL\") affects the ability of an \"interested stockholder\" to engage in certain business combinations, for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an \"interested stockholder.\" We have elected in our certificate of incorporation not to be subject to Section 203 of the DGCL.  Nevertheless, our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that have the same effect as Section 203 of the DGCL, except that it provides that affiliates of TowerBrook and their transferees will not be deemed to be \"interested stockholders,\" regardless of the percentage of our voting stock owned by them, and will therefore not be subject to such restrictions.  These charter provisions may limit the ability of third parties to acquire control of our company.. We are a holding company and rely on dividends, distributions and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations.. We are a holding company that does not conduct any business operations of our own.  As a result, we are largely dependent upon cash dividends and distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations.  The agreements governing the indebtedness of our subsidiaries impose restrictions on our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us.  See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Credit Facilities.\" The deterioration of the earnings from, or other available assets of, our subsidiaries for any reason could also limit or impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us.. Future sales of our common stock in the public market, or the perception in the public market that such sales may occur, could reduce our stock price.. We have 43,752,790 outstanding shares of common stock.  The number of outstanding shares of common stock includes 31,172,577 shares, including shares controlled by TowerBrook, that are \"restricted securities,\" as defined under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\"), and eligible for sale in the public market subject to the requirements of Rule 144. Sales of significant amounts of stock in the public market could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.. There can be no assurances that a viable public market for our common stock will be maintained.. An active, liquid and orderly trading market for our common stock may not be maintained.  Active, liquid and orderly trading markets usually result in less price volatility and more efficiency in carrying out investors' purchase and sale orders.  We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our common stock will lead to the maintenance of an active trading market on the NYSE or otherwise or how liquid that market might continue to be.  If an active public market for our common stock is not sustained, it may be difficult for you to sell your shares at a price that is attractive to you or at all.. 25. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile.. The market price of our common stock could vary significantly as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control.  In the event of a drop in the market price of our common stock, you could lose a substantial part or all of your investment in our common stock.  The following factors could affect our stock price:. •  our operating and financial performance;. •  quarterly variations in the rate of growth (if any) of our financial indicators, such as net income per share, net income and revenues;. •  the public reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;. •  strategic actions by our competitors;. •  changes in operating performance and the stock market valuations of other companies;. •  announcements related to litigation;. •  our failure to meet revenue or earnings estimates made by research analysts or other investors;. •  changes in revenue or earnings estimates, or changes in recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage, by equity research analysts;. •  speculation in the press or investment community;. •  sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders, or the perception that such sales may occur;. •  changes in accounting principles, policies, guidance, interpretations or standards;. •  additions or departures of key management personnel;. •  actions by our stockholders;. •  general market conditions;. •  domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; and. •  the realization of any risks described under this \"Risk Factors\" section, or other risks that may materialize in the future.. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company's securities. Beginning in October 2017, we, certain of our officers and directors, and the underwriters of our initial public offering were named as defendants in securities class actions purportedly brought on behalf of purchasers of our common stock. This litigation and any future securities class actions, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management's attention and resources and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or publish negative reports, our stock price could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business.  If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.  Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our common stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. The issuance by us of additional shares of common stock or convertible securities may dilute your ownership of us and could adversely affect our stock price.. We have filed a registration statement with the SEC on Form S-8 providing for the registration of 2,237,303 shares of our common stock issued or reserved for issuance under our long-term incentive plan.  Subject to the satisfaction of vesting conditions and the expiration of lock-up agreements, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 will be available for resale immediately in the public market without restriction.  From time to time in the future, we may also issue additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into common stock pursuant to a variety of transactions, including acquisitions.  The issuance by us of additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock would dilute your ownership of us and the sale of a significant amount of such shares in the public market could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.. 26. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine.  The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock.  For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions.  Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.. Our designation of the Delaware Court of Chancery as the exclusive forum for certain types of stockholder legal proceedings could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a more favorable forum.. Our certificate of incorporation provides that unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case subject to such Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein.  Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of, and consented to, the provisions of our certificate of incorporation described in the preceding sentence.  This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons.  See \"Description of Capital Stock - Forum Selection.\" Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs that we do not currently anticipate associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations."
