[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The following discussion sets forth the material risk factors that could affect JPMorgan Chase's financial condition and operations. Readers should not consider any descriptions of these factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect the Firm.. Regulatory. JPMorgan Chase's businesses are highly regulated, and the laws and regulations that apply to JPMorgan Chase have a significant impact on its operations.. JPMorgan Chase is a financial services firm with operations worldwide. JPMorgan Chase must comply with the laws and regulations that apply to its operations in all of the jurisdictions around the world in which it does business. The regulation of financial services activities is typically extensive and comprehensive.. In recent years, legislators and regulators adopted a wide range of new laws and regulations affecting the financial services industry, both within and outside the U.S. The supervision of financial services firms also expanded significantly during this period. The wave of increased regulation and supervision of JPMorgan Chase has affected the way that it conducts and structures its operations. Existing and new laws and regulations and expanded supervision could require JPMorgan Chase to make further changes to its operations. These changes could result in JPMorgan Chase incurring additional costs for complying with laws and regulations or losing a significant amount of revenue, and could reduce JPMorgan Chase's profitability. More specifically, existing and new laws and regulations could require JPMorgan Chase to:. • limit the products and services that it offers. • reduce the liquidity that it can provide through its market-making activities. • stop or discourage it from engaging in business opportunities that it might otherwise pursue. • recognize losses in the value of assets that it holds. 8. • pay higher assessments, levies or other governmental charges. • dispose of certain assets, and do so at times or prices that are disadvantageous. • impose restrictions on certain business activities, or. • increase the prices that it charges for products and services, which could reduce the demand for them.. Differences in financial services regulation can be disadvantageous for JPMorgan Chase's business.. The content and application of laws and regulations affecting financial services firms sometimes vary according to factors such as the size of the firm, the jurisdiction in which it is organized or operates, or other criteria. For example:. • larger firms are often subject to more stringent supervision and regulation. • financial technology companies and other competitors may not be subject to banking regulation, or may be supervised by a national or state regulatory agency that does not have the same resources or regulatory priorities as the regulatory agencies which supervise more diversified financial services firms, or. • the financial services regulatory framework in a particular jurisdiction may favor financial institutions that are based in that country.. There can also be significant differences in the ways that similar regulatory initiatives affecting the financial services industry are implemented in the U.S. and in different countries and regions in which JPMorgan Chase does business. For example, legislative and regulatory initiatives within the EU could require JPMorgan Chase to make significant modifications to its operations and legal entity structure in that region in order to comply with those requirements. These include laws and regulations that have been adopted or proposed relating to:. • the resolution of financial institutions. • the establishment by non-EU financial institutions of intermediate holding companies in the EU. • the separation of trading activities from core banking services. • mandatory on-exchange trading. • position limits and reporting rules for derivatives. • governance and accountability regimes. • conduct of business requirements, and. • restrictions on compensation.. These types of differences in financial services regulation, or inconsistencies or conflicts between laws and regulations between different jurisdictions, could require JPMorgan Chase to, among other things:. • divest assets or restructure its operations. • absorb increased operational, capital and liquidity costs. • change the prices that it charges for its products and services. • curtail the products and services that it offers to its customers and clients, or. • incur higher costs for complying with different legal and regulatory frameworks.. Any or all of these factors could harm JPMorgan Chase's ability to compete against other firms that are not subject to the same laws and regulations or supervisory oversight, or harm JPMorgan Chase's businesses, results of operations and profitability.. Governments in some countries in which JPMorgan Chase does business have adopted laws or regulations which require that JPMorgan Chase subsidiaries which operate in those countries maintain minimum amounts of capital or liquidity on a stand-alone basis. Some regulators outside the U.S. have also proposed that large banks which conduct certain businesses in their jurisdictions operate through separate subsidiaries located in those countries. These requirements, and any future laws or regulations that impose restrictions on the way JPMorgan Chase organizes its businesses or increase the capital or liquidity requirements that would apply to JPMorgan Chase subsidiaries, could hinder JPMorgan Chase's ability to efficiently manage its operations, increase its funding and liquidity costs, and result in lower profitability.. Heightened regulatory scrutiny of JPMorgan Chase's businesses has increased its compliance costs and could result in restrictions on its operations.. JPMorgan Chase's operations are subject to heightened oversight and scrutiny from regulatory authorities in many jurisdictions where JPMorgan Chase does business. JPMorgan Chase has paid significant fines or provided other monetary relief in connection with resolving several investigations and enforcement actions by governmental agencies. JPMorgan Chase could become subject to similar regulatory settlements or other actions in the future, and addressing the requirements of any such settlement could result in JPMorgan Chase incurring higher operational and compliance costs.. In connection with resolving specific regulatory investigations or enforcement actions, certain regulators have required JPMorgan Chase and other financial institutions to admit wrongdoing with respect to the activities that gave rise to the settlement. These types of admissions can lead to:. • greater exposure in civil litigation. • damage to reputation. • disqualification from doing business with certain clients or customers, or in specific jurisdictions, or. 9"
