[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. The business, financial condition and operating results of the Company may be affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including but not limited to those described below. Any one or more of such factors could directly or indirectly cause the Company's actual results of operations and financial condition to vary materially from past or anticipated future results of operations and financial condition. Any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" of this Annual Report.. Risks Related to Our Business. We have a limited operating history, expect to incur further losses as we grow and may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.. Since formation in June 2013, our operations have been primarily limited to the research and development of our animal prescription drug product candidate, Canalevia, to treat various forms of diarrhea in dogs, our non-prescription product, Neonorm Calf, to help dairies and calf farms proactively retain fluid in calves, the ongoing commercialization of Neonorm Foal, our antidiarrheal for newborn horses, and Equilevia, our planned product for total gut health in high-performance equine athletes. Since the consummation of the Merger on July 31, 2017, our operations have also been heavily focused on research, development and the ongoing commercialization of our lead prescription drug product candidate, Mytesi, which is approved by the U.S. FDA for the symptomatic relief of noninfectious diarrhea in adults with HIV/AIDS on antiretroviral therapy. As a result, we have limited meaningful historical operations upon which to evaluate our business and prospects and have not yet demonstrated an ability to broadly commercialize any of our animal health products, obtain any required marketing approval for any of our animal prescription drug product candidates or successfully overcome the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in emerging fields such as the animal health industry or the gastrointestinal health industry in general. We also have not generated any material revenue to date, and expect to continue to incur significant research and development and other expenses. Our net loss and comprehensive loss for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $22.0 million. As of December 31, 2017, we had total stockholders' equity of $17.3 million. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, which will increase significantly from historical levels as we expand our product development activities, seek necessary approvals for our human and veterinary drug product candidates, conduct species-specific formulation studies for our non-prescription products and begin commercialization activities. Even if we succeed in developing and broadly commercializing one or more of our products or product candidates, we expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never become profitable. If we fail to achieve or maintain profitability, then we may be unable to continue our operations at planned levels and be forced to reduce or cease operations.. As more fully discussed in Note 1 to our financial statements, we believe there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern as we do not currently have sufficient cash resources to fund our operations through March 31, 2019, or one year from the filing date of our Form 10-K. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. If we are unable to continue as a viable entity, our stockholders may lose their entire investment.. We currently generate limited revenue from the sale of products and may never become profitable.. We are a natural-products pharmaceuticals company focused on the development and commercialization of novel, sustainably derived gastrointestinal products for both human prescription use. 42. Table of Contents. and animals on a global basis. Napo, our wholly-owned subsidiary, began the commercial pre-launch activities of our first FDA approved product, Mytesi, in February 2017. Accordingly, we have only generated limited revenue from product sales. There is no guarantee that our ongoing commercialization efforts for Neonorm Calf for preweaned dairy calves in the United States and Neonorm Foal for newborn horses in the United States will be successful or that we will be able to generate a consistent revenue stream from the sale of any of these products in the future. Further, in order to commercialize our other prescription drug product candidates, we must receive regulatory approval from the FDA in the United States and other regulatory agencies in various jurisdictions. Other than Mytesi, we have not yet received any regulatory approvals for our prescription drug product candidates. In addition, certain of our non-prescription products, such as Neonorm Calf, may be subject to regulatory approval outside the United States prior to commercialization in other countries. Accordingly, until and unless we receive any necessary regulatory approvals, we cannot market or sell our products in many regions. Moreover, even if we receive the necessary approvals, we may not be successful in generating revenue from sales of our products as we do not have any meaningful experience marketing or distributing our products. Accordingly, we may never generate any material revenue from our operations.. We expect to incur significant additional costs as we continue commercialization efforts for current prescription drug candidates, Neonorm, or other product candidates, and undertake the clinical trials necessary to obtain any necessary regulatory approvals, which will increase our losses.. We commenced sales of Neonorm for preweaned dairy calves in the United States under the brand name Neonorm Calf at the end of 2014, and Napo commenced sales of Mytesi for adults with HIV/AIDS on antiretroviral therapy in February 2017. We will need to continue to invest in developing our internal and third-party sales and distribution network and outreach efforts to key opinion leaders in the gastrointestinal health industry, including physicians and veterinarians, as applicable. We will also need to conduct clinical trials for Canalevia in order to obtain necessary initial regulatory approvals and to subsequently broaden Mytesi to additional indications and Canalevia to additional indications and additional species. We will also need to conduct species-specific testing with Neonorm to expand to additional animal populations.. We are actively identifying additional products for development and commercialization, and will continue to expend substantial resources for the foreseeable future to develop Mytesi, Equilevia, Canalevia and Neonorm and develop products from Napo's library of over 2,300 medicinal plants. These expenditures will include costs associated with:. <U+0095> identifying additional potential prescription drug product candidates and non-prescription products;     <U+0095> formulation studies;    <U+0095> conducting pilot, pivotal and toxicology studies;    <U+0095> completing other research and development activities;    <U+0095> payments to technology licensors;    <U+0095> maintaining our intellectual property;    <U+0095> obtaining necessary regulatory approvals;    <U+0095> establishing commercial supply capabilities; and    <U+0095> sales, marketing and distribution of our commercialized products.. We also may incur unanticipated costs in connection with developing and commercializing our products. Because the outcome of our development activities and commercialization efforts is inherently. 43. Table of Contents. uncertain, the actual amounts necessary to successfully complete the development and commercialization of our current or future products and product candidates may be greater than we anticipate.. Because we anticipate incurring significant costs for the foreseeable future, if we are not successful in broadly commercializing any of our current or future products or product candidates or raising additional funding to pursue our research and development efforts, we may never realize the benefit of our development efforts and our business may be harmed.. We will need to raise substantial additional capital in the future in the event that we conduct clinical trials for new indications and we may be unable to raise such funds when needed and on acceptable terms, which would force us to delay, limit, reduce or terminate one or more of our product development programs.. We are forecasting continued losses and negative cash flows as we continue to fund our operating and marketing activities and research and development programs, and we will not have sufficient cash on hand to fund our operating plan through March 31, 2019 and to complete the development of all the current products in our pipeline, or any additional products we may identify. We will need to seek additional funds sooner than planned through public or private equity or debt financings or other sources such as strategic collaborations. Any such financings or collaborations may result in dilution to our stockholders, the imposition of debt covenants and repayment obligations or other restrictions that may harm our business or the value of our common stock. We may also seek from time to time to raise additional capital based upon favorable market conditions or strategic considerations such as potential acquisitions or potential license arrangements.. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including, but not limited to:. <U+0095> the scope, progress, results and costs of researching and developing our current and future prescription drug product candidates and non-prescription products;    <U+0095> the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining any regulatory approvals for our current and any future products;     <U+0095> the number and characteristics of the products we pursue;    <U+0095> the cost of manufacturing our current and future products and any products we successfully commercialize;     <U+0095> the cost of commercialization activities for Mytesi, Neonorm, Equilevia and Canalevia, if approved, including sales, marketing and distribution costs;    <U+0095> the expenses needed to attract and retain skilled personnel;    <U+0095> the costs associated with being a public company;    <U+0095> our ability to establish and maintain strategic collaborations, distribution or other arrangements and the financial terms of such agreements; and    <U+0095> the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing possible patent claims, including litigation costs and the outcome of any such litigation.. Additional funds may not be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate one or more of our product development programs or future commercialization efforts.. 44. Table of Contents. We are substantially dependent on the success of our current lead prescription drug product candidates, Mytesi and Canalevia, and our non-prescription products, Equilevia and Neonorm, and cannot be certain that necessary approvals will be received for planned Mytesi follow-on indications or Canalevia or that these product candidates will be successfully commercialized, either by us or any of our partners.. Other than Mytesi, we currently do not have regulatory approval for any of our prescription drug product candidates, including Canalevia. Our current efforts are primarily focused on the ongoing commercialization of Mytesi, Neonorm Calf and Neonorm Foal in the United States, and development efforts related to Mytesi, Equilevia, and Canalevia, and on the development of formulations of Neonorm for additional species. With regard to Mytesi, we are focused on the commercial launch of the product in the United States as well as on development efforts related to a follow-on indication for Mytesi in CID, an important supportive care indication for patients undergoing primary or adjuvant chemotherapy for cancer treatment. Mytesi is also in development for rare disease indications for infants and children with congenital diarrheal disorders and short bowel syndrome; for IBS (Mytesi has demonstrated benefit to IBS-D patients in published Phase 2 studies); for supportive care for IBD; and as a second-generation anti-secretory agent for use in cholera patients. Mytesi has received orphan-drug designation for SBS. Accordingly, our near term prospects, including our ability to generate material product revenue, obtain any new financing if needed to fund our business and operations or enter into potential strategic transactions, will depend heavily on the success of Mytesi, Equilevia and Neonorm, as well as on Canalevia, if Canalevia is approved.. Substantial time and capital resources have been previously devoted by third parties in the development of crofelemer, the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, in Mytesi and Canalevia, and the development of the botanical extract used in Equilevia and Neonorm. Both crofelemer and the botanical extract used in Equilevia and Neonorm were originally developed at Shaman Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (\"Shaman\"), by certain members of our management team, including Lisa A. Conte, our chief executive officer and president, and Steven R. King, Ph.D., our executive vice president of sustainable supply, ethnobotanical research and intellectual property and secretary. Shaman spent significant development resources before voluntarily filing for bankruptcy in 2001 pursuant to Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The rights to crofelemer and the botanical extract used in Equilevia and Neonorm, as well as other intellectual property rights, were subsequently acquired by Napo from Shaman in 2001 pursuant to a court approved sale of assets. Ms. Conte founded Napo in 2001 and was the current interim chief executive officer of Napo and a member of Napo's board of directors prior to the Merger. While at Napo, certain members of our management team, including Ms. Conte and Dr. King, continued the development of crofelemer. In 2005, Napo entered into license agreements with Glenmark and Luye Pharma Group Limited for rights to various human indications of crofelemer in certain territories as defined in the respective license agreements with these licensees. Subsequently, after expending significant sums developing crofelemer, including trial design and on-going patient enrollment in the final pivotal Phase 3 trial for crofelemer for non-infectious diarrhea in adults with HIV/AIDS on antiretroviral therapy, in late 2008, Napo entered into a collaboration agreement with Salix Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Salix, for development and commercialization rights to certain indications worldwide and certain rights in North America, Europe, and Japan, to crofelemer for human use. In January 2014, Jaguar entered into the Napo License Agreement pursuant to which Jaguar acquired an exclusive worldwide license to Napo's intellectual property rights and technology, including crofelemer and the botanical extract used in Equilevia and Neonorm, for all veterinary treatment uses and indications for all species of animals. In February 2014, most of the executive officers of Napo, and substantially all Napo's employees, became Jaguar's employees. Following the merger of Jaguar and Napo in July 2017, Napo became Jaguar's wholly-owned subsidiary. If we are not successful in the development and commercialization of Mytesi, Neonorm, Equilevia and Canalevia, our business and our prospects will be harmed.. 45. Table of Contents. The successful development and commercialization of Mytesi, Equilevia and Neonorm, and, if approved, Canalevia will depend on a number of factors, including the following:. <U+0095> the successful completion of the pivotal trials and toxicology studies for Canalevia, which may take significantly longer than we currently anticipate and will depend, in part, upon the satisfactory performance of third-party contractors;    <U+0095> our ability to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA and any other regulatory bodies, the safety and efficacy of Canalevia;     <U+0095> our ability and that of our contract manufacturers to manufacture supplies of Mytesi, Neonorm, Equilevia and Canalevia and to develop, validate and maintain viable commercial manufacturing processes that are compliant with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, if required;    <U+0095> the success of Neonorm field studies and acceptance of their results by dairy producers;    <U+0095> our ability to successfully launch Mytesi and Neonorm, whether alone or in collaboration with others;     <U+0095> our ability to successfully launch Canalevia, assuming approval is obtained, and Equilevia, whether alone or in collaboration with others;     <U+0095> the availability, perceived advantages, relative cost, relative safety and relative efficacy of our prescription drug product candidates and non-prescription products compared to alternative and competing treatments;    <U+0095> the acceptance of our prescription drug product candidates and non-prescription products as safe and effective by physicians, veterinarians, patients, animal owners and the human and animal health community, as applicable;    <U+0095> our ability to achieve and maintain compliance with all regulatory requirements applicable to our business; and     <U+0095> our ability to obtain and enforce our intellectual property rights and obtain marketing exclusivity for our prescription drug product candidates and non-prescription products, and avoid or prevail in any third-party patent interference, patent infringement claims or administrative patent proceedings initiated by third parties or the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (\"USPTO\").. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Accordingly, we may not be successful in developing or commercializing Mytesi, Neonorm, Equilevia, Canalevia or any of our other potential products. If we are unsuccessful or are significantly delayed in developing and commercializing Mytesi, Neonorm, Equilevia, Canalevia or any of our other potential products, our business and prospects will be harmed and you may lose all or a portion of the value of your investment in our common stock.. If we are not successful in identifying, licensing, developing and commercializing additional product candidates and products, our ability to expand our business and achieve our strategic objectives could be impaired.. Although a substantial amount of our efforts is focused on the commercial performance of Mytesi, Equilevia and Neonorm and the continued development and potential approval of Canalevia, a key element of our strategy is to identify, develop and commercialize a portfolio of products to serve the gastrointestinal health market. Most of our potential products are based on our knowledge of medicinal plants. Our current focus is primarily on product candidates whose active pharmaceutical ingredient or botanical extract has been successfully commercialized or demonstrated to be safe and effective in human or animal trials. In some instances, we may be unable to further develop these potential products because of perceived regulatory and commercial risks. Even if we successfully identify potential products, we may. 46. Table of Contents. still fail to yield products for development and commercialization for many reasons, including the following:. <U+0095> competitors may develop alternatives that render our potential products obsolete;    <U+0095> an outside party may develop a cure for any disease state that is the target indication for any of our planned or approved drug products;     <U+0095> potential products we seek to develop may be covered by third-party patents or other exclusive rights;     <U+0095> a potential product may on further study be shown to have harmful side effects or other characteristics that indicate it is unlikely to be effective or otherwise does not meet applicable regulatory criteria;    <U+0095> a potential product may not be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost, or at all; and     <U+0095> a potential product may not be accepted as safe and effective by physicians, veterinarians, patients, animal owners, key opinion leaders and other decision-makers in the gastrointestinal health market, as applicable.. While we are developing specific formulations, including flavors, methods of administration, new patents and other strategies with respect to our current potential products, we may be unable to prevent competitors from developing substantially similar products and bringing those products to market earlier than we can. If such competing products achieve regulatory approval and commercialization prior to our potential products, our competitive position may be impaired. If we fail to develop and successfully commercialize other potential products, our business and future prospects may be harmed and we will be more vulnerable to any problems that we encounter in developing and commercializing our current potential products.. Mytesi faces significant competition from other pharmaceutical companies, both for its currently approved indication and for planned follow-on indications, and our operating results will suffer if we fail to compete effectively.. The development and commercialization of products for human gastrointestinal health is highly competitive and our success depends on our ability to compete effectively with other products in the market. During the ongoing commercialization of Mytesi for its currently approved indication, and during the future commercialization of Mytesi for any planned follow-on indications, if such follow-on indications receive regulatory approval, we expect to compete with major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that operate in the gastrointestinal space, such as Sucampo AG, Takeda Pharmaceuticals, Allergan, Inc., Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Synergy Pharmaceuticals Inc., Heron Therapeutics, Inc., Sebela Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Salix Pharmaceuticals.. Many of our competitors and potential competitors in the human gastrointestinal space have substantially more financial, technical and human resources than we do. Many also have more experience in the development, manufacture, regulation and worldwide commercialization of human gastrointestinal health products.. For these reasons, we cannot be certain that we and Mytesi can compete effectively.. Our animal health products face significant competition from other pharmaceutical companies and our operating results will suffer if we fail to compete effectively.. The development and commercialization of animal health products is highly competitive and our success depends on our ability to compete effectively with other products in the market. We expect to. 47. Table of Contents. compete with the animal health divisions of major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies such as Merck Animal Health, Merial Inc., Elanco Animal Health, Bayer Animal Health GmbH, Novartis Animal Health Inc. and Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health, as well as specialty animal health medicines companies such as Zoetis Inc., Phibro Animal Health Corporation and, in Europe, Virbac S.A., Vétoquinol S.A., Ceva Animal Health S.A. and Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC. We are also aware of several early-stage companies that are developing products for use in the animal health market, including Aratana Therapeutics, Inc., Kindred Biosciences, Inc., Parnell Pharmaceuticals Holdings Ltd, Nexvet Biopharma and ImmuCell Corporation. We also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies and private organizations that are conducting research in the field of animal health products.. Although there are currently no FDA-approved anti-secretory products to treat chemotherapy-induced diarrhea (CID) in dogs, we anticipate that Canalevia, if approved, may face competition from various products, including products approved for use in humans that are used extra-label in animals. Extra-label use is the use of an approved drug outside of its cleared or approved indications in the animal context. All of our potential products could also face competition from new products in development. These and other potential competing products may benefit from greater brand recognition and brand loyalty than our products and product candidates may achieve.. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially more financial, technical and human resources than we do. Many also have more experience in the development, manufacture, regulation and worldwide commercialization of animal health products, including animal prescription drugs and non-prescription products.. For these reasons, we cannot be certain that we and our products can compete effectively.. We may be unable to obtain, or obtain on a timely basis, regulatory approval for our existing or future human or animal prescription drug product candidates under applicable regulatory requirements, which would harm our operating results.. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, sale, marketing and distribution of human and animal health products are subject to extensive regulation. We are typically not permitted to market our prescription drug product candidates in the United States until we receive approval of the product from the FDA through the filing of an NDA or NADA, as applicable. To gain approval to market a prescription drug, we must provide the FDA with safety and efficacy data from pivotal trials that adequately demonstrate that our prescription drug product candidates are safe and effective for the intended indications. Likewise, to gain approval to market an animal prescription drug for a particular species, we must provide the FDA with safety and efficacy data from pivotal trials that adequately demonstrate that our prescription drug product candidates are safe and effective in the target species (e.g. dogs, cats or horses) for the intended indications. In addition, we must provide manufacturing data evidencing that we can produce our product candidates in accordance with cGMP. For the FDA, we must also provide data from toxicology studies, also called target animal safety studies, and in some cases environmental impact data. In addition to our internal activities, we will partially rely on contract research organizations (\"CROs\"), and other third parties to conduct our toxicology studies and for certain other product development activities. The results of toxicology studies, other initial development activities, and/or any previous studies in humans or animals conducted by us or third parties may not be predictive of future results of pivotal trials or other future studies, and failure can occur at any time during the conduct of pivotal trials and other development activities by us or our CROs. Our pivotal trials may fail to show the desired safety or efficacy of our prescription drug product candidates despite promising initial data or the results in previous human or animal studies conducted by others. Success of a prescription drug product candidate in prior animal studies, or in the treatment of humans, does not ensure success in subsequent studies. Clinical trials in humans and pivotal trials in animals sometimes fail to show a benefit even for drugs that are effective because of statistical limitations in the design of the trials or other statistical. 48. Table of Contents. anomalies. Therefore, even if our studies and other development activities are completed as planned, the results may not be sufficient to obtain a required regulatory approval for a product candidate.. Regulatory authorities can delay, limit or deny approval of any of our prescription drug product candidates for many reasons, including:. <U+0095> if they disagree with our interpretation of data from our pivotal studies or other development efforts;     <U+0095> if we are unable to demonstrate to their satisfaction that our product candidate is safe and effective for the target indication and, if applicable, in the target species;    <U+0095> if they require additional studies or change their approval policies or regulations;    <U+0095> if they do not approve of the formulation, labeling or the specifications of our current and future product candidates; and     <U+0095> if they fail to approve the manufacturing processes of our third-party contract manufacturers.. Further, even if we receive a required approval, such approval may be for a more limited indication than we originally requested, and the regulatory authority may not approve the labeling that we believe is necessary or desirable for successful commercialization.. Any delay or failure in obtaining any necessary regulatory approval for the intended indications of our human or animal product candidates would delay or prevent commercialization of such product candidates and would harm our business and our operating results.. The results of our earlier studies of Mytesi and Neonorm may not be predictive of the results in any future clinical trials and species-specific formulation studies, respectively, and we may not be successful in our efforts to develop or commercialize line extensions of Mytesi and Neonorm.. Our human and animal product pipeline includes a number of potential indications of Mytesi, our lead prescription product, and a number of species-specific formulations of Neonorm, our commercially available non-prescription product. The results of our studies and other development activities and of any previous studies in humans or animals conducted by us or third parties may not be predictive of future results of these clinical studies and formulation studies, respectively. Failure can occur at any time during the conduct of these trials and other development activities. Even if our formulation/clinical studies and other development activities are completed as planned, the results may not be sufficient to pursue a particular line extension for Mytesi or Neonorm, respectively. Further, even if we obtain promising results from our clinical trials or species-specific formulation studies, as applicable, we may not successfully commercialize any line extension. Because line extensions are developed for a particular market, we may not be able to leverage our experience from the commercial launch of Mytesi, Neonorm Calf and Neonorm Foal in new markets. If we are not successful in developing and successfully commercializing these line extension products, we may not be able to grow our revenue and our business may be harmed.. Development of prescription drug products is inherently expensive, time-consuming and uncertain, and any delay or discontinuance of our current or future pivotal trials would harm our business and prospects.. Development of prescription drug products for human and animal gastrointestinal health remains an inherently lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and our development activities may not be successful. We do not know whether our current or planned pivotal trials for any of our product candidates will begin or conclude on time, and they may be delayed or discontinued for a variety of reasons, including if we are unable to:. <U+0095> address any safety concerns that arise during the course of the studies;    <U+0095> complete the studies due to deviations from the study protocols or the occurrence of adverse events;. 49. Table of Contents. <U+0095> add new study sites;    <U+0095> address any conflicts with new or existing laws or regulations; or    <U+0095> reach agreement on acceptable terms with study sites, which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different sites.. Further, we may not be successful in developing new indications for Mytesi and/or species-specific formulations for Neonorm, and Neonorm may be subject to the same regulatory regime as prescription drug products in jurisdictions outside the United States. Any delays in completing our development efforts will increase our costs, delay our development efforts and approval process and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenue. Any of these occurrences may harm our business, financial condition and prospects. In addition, factors that may cause a delay in the commencement or completion of our development efforts may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our product candidates which, as described above, would harm our business and prospects.. We will partially rely on third parties to conduct our development activities. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approvals or commercialize our current or future human or animal product candidates on a timely basis, or at all.. We will partially rely upon CROs to conduct our toxicology studies and for other development activities. We intend to rely on CROs to conduct one or more of our planned pivotal trials. These CROs are not our employees, and except for contractual duties and obligations, we have limited ability to control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs or manage the risks associated with their activities on our behalf. We are responsible for ensuring that each of our studies is conducted in accordance with the development plans and trial protocols presented to regulatory authorities. Any deviations by our CROs may adversely affect our ability to obtain regulatory approvals, subject us to penalties or harm our credibility with regulators. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities also require us and our CROs to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices (\"GCPs\"), or good laboratory practices (\"GLPs\"), for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of our studies to ensure that the data and results are scientifically valid and accurate.. Agreements with CROs generally allow the CROs to terminate in certain circumstances with little or no advance notice. These agreements generally will require our CROs to reasonably cooperate with us at our expense for an orderly winding down of the CROs' services under the agreements. If the CROs conducting our studies do not comply with their contractual duties or obligations, or if they experience work stoppages, do not meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised, we may need to secure new arrangements with alternative CROs, which could be difficult and costly. In such event, our studies also may need to be extended, delayed or terminated as a result, or may need to be repeated. If any of the foregoing were to occur, regulatory approval, if required, and commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed and we may be required to expend substantial additional resources.. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for planned follow-on indications of Mytesi, or for Canalevia or our other product candidates, they may never achieve market acceptance. Further, even if we are successful in the ongoing commercialization of Mytesi and Neonorm, we may not achieve commercial success.. If we obtain necessary regulatory approvals for planned follow-on indications of Mytesi or for Canalevia or our other product candidates, such products may still not achieve market acceptance and may not be commercially successful. Market acceptance of Mytesi, Canalevia, Neonorm and any of our other products depends on a number of factors, including:. <U+0095> the safety of our products as demonstrated in our target animal studies;    <U+0095> the indications for which our products are approved or marketed;. 50. Table of Contents. <U+0095> the potential and perceived advantages over alternative treatments or products, including generic medicines and competing products currently prescribed by physicians or veterinarians, as applicable, and, in the case of animal products, products approved for use in humans that are used extra-label in animals;     <U+0095> the acceptance by physicians, veterinarians, companion animal owners and production animal owners, including in the dairy industry, as applicable, of our products as safe and effective;    <U+0095> the cost in relation to alternative treatments and willingness on the part of physicians, veterinarians, patients and animal owners, as applicable, to pay for our products;    <U+0095> the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects of our products;    <U+0095> the relative convenience and ease of administration of our products; and    <U+0095> the effectiveness of our sales, marketing and distribution efforts.. Any failure by Mytesi, Canalevia, Equilevia, Neonorm or any of our other products to achieve market acceptance or commercial success would harm our financial condition and results of operations.. The dairy industry is subject to conditions beyond our control and the occurrence of any such conditions may harm our business and impact the demand for our products.. The demand for production animal health products, such as Neonorm Calf, is heavily dependent on factors that affect the dairy market that are beyond our control, including the following, any of which may harm our business:. <U+0095> cost containment measures within the dairy industry, in response to international, national and local general economic conditions, which may affect the market adoption of our products;    <U+0095> state and federal government policies, including government-funded programs or subsidies whose discontinuance or modification could erode the demand for our products;    <U+0095> a decline in demand for dairy products due to changes in consumer diets away from dairy products, which could adversely affect the demand for production animal health products;    <U+0095> adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as floods, droughts, and pestilence, which can lower dairy yields; and     <U+0095> disease or other conditions beyond our control.. Human and animal gastrointestinal health products are subject to unanticipated post-approval safety or efficacy concerns, which may harm our business and reputation.. The success of our commercialization efforts will depend upon the perceived safety and effectiveness of human and animal gastrointestinal health products, in general, and of our products, in particular. Unanticipated safety or efficacy concerns can subsequently arise with respect to approved prescription drug products, such as Mytesi, or non-prescription products, such as Neonorm, which may result in product recalls or withdrawals or suspension of sales, as well as product liability and other claims. Any safety or efficacy concerns, or recalls, withdrawals or suspensions of sales of our products could harm our reputation and business, regardless of whether such concerns or actions are justified.. Future federal and state legislation may result in increased exposure to product liability claims, which could result in substantial losses.. Under current federal and state laws, companion and production animals are generally considered to be the personal property of their owners and, as such, the owners' recovery for product liability claims involving their companion and production animals may be limited to the replacement value of the animal.. 51. Table of Contents. Companion animal owners and their advocates, however, have filed lawsuits from time to time seeking non-economic damages such as pain and suffering and emotional distress for harm to their companion animals based on theories applicable to personal injuries to humans. If new legislation is passed to allow recovery for such non-economic damages, or if precedents are set allowing for such recovery, we could be exposed to increased product liability claims that could result in substantial losses to us if successful. In addition, some horses can be worth millions of dollars or more, and product liability for horses may be very high. While we currently have product liability insurance, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover any future product liability claims against us.. If we fail to retain current members of our senior management, or to identify, attract, integrate and retain additional key personnel, our business will be harmed.. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel. We are highly dependent upon our senior management, particularly Lisa A. Conte, our president and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of services of any of our key personnel would cause a disruption in our ability to develop our current or future product pipeline and commercialize our products and product candidates. Although we have offer letters with these key members of senior management, such agreements do not prohibit them from resigning at any time. For example, the resignation of our former Chief Financial Officer, Charles O. Thompson, in September 2014, and the mutually agreed departure of our former Chief Veterinary Officer, Serge Martinod, D.V.M., Ph.D. in February 2015, caused us to incur additional expenses and expend resources to ensure a smooth transition with their respective successors, which diverted management attention away from executing our operational plan during this period. We currently do not maintain \"key man\" life insurance on any of our senior management team. The loss of Ms. Conte or other members of our current senior management could adversely affect the timing or outcomes of our current and planned studies, as well as the prospects for commercializing our products.. In addition, competition for qualified personnel in the human and animal gastrointestinal health fields is intense, because there are a limited number of individuals who are trained or experienced in the field. Further, our headquarters are located in San Francisco, California, and the dairy and agriculture industries are not prevalent in urban areas such as San Francisco. We will need to hire additional personnel as we expand our product development and commercialization activities. Even if we are successful in hiring qualified individuals, as we are a growing organization, we do not have a track record for integrating and retaining individuals. If we are not successful in identifying, attracting, integrating or retaining qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all, our business will be harmed.. We are dependent on two suppliers for the raw material used to produce the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Mytesi and Canalevia and the botanical extract in Neonorm and Equilevia. The termination of either of these contracts would result in a disruption to product development and our business will be harmed.. The raw material used to manufacture Mytesi, Canalevia, Neonorm and Equilevia is crude plant latex (\"CPL\"), derived from the  Croton lechleri tree, which is found in countries in South America, principally Peru. The ability of our contract suppliers to harvest CPL is governed by the terms of their respective agreements with local government authorities. Although CPL is available from multiple suppliers, we only have contracts with two suppliers to obtain CPL and arrange the shipment to our contract manufacturer. Accordingly, if our contract suppliers do not or are unable to comply with the terms of our respective agreements, and we are not able to negotiate new agreements with alternate suppliers on terms that we deem commercially reasonable, it may harm our business and prospects. The countries from which we obtain CPL could change their laws and regulations regarding the export of the natural products or impose or increase taxes or duties payable by exporters of such products. Restrictions could be imposed on the harvesting of the natural products or additional requirements could be implemented for the replanting and regeneration of the raw material. Such events could have a significant impact on our cost and ability to produce Mytesi, Canalevia, Neonorm, Equilevia and anticipated line extensions.. 52. Table of Contents. We are dependent upon third-party contract manufacturers, both for the supply of the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Mytesi and Canalevia and the botanical extract in Neonorm and Equilevia, as well as for the supply of finished products for commercialization.. We have contracted with third parties for the formulation of API and botanical extract into finished products for our studies. We have also entered into memorandums of understanding with Indena S.p.A. for the manufacture of CPL received from our suppliers into the API in Canalevia to support our regulatory filings, as well as the botanical extract in Neonorm and agreed to negotiate a commercial supply agreement. Indena S.p.A. has never manufactured either such ingredient to commercial scale. As a second supplier situation, we have entered into a four-year manufacturing and supply agreement with Glenmark for the supply of the API in Canalevia. Glenmark is the current manufacturer of crofelemer, the active API in Canalevia, for Mytesi, and the manufacturer on file for the NADA to which we have a right of reference. As announced in October of 2015, we have entered an agreement with Patheon, a provider of drug development and delivery solutions, under which Patheon provides enteric-coated tablets to us for use in animals. We also may contract with additional third parties for the formulation and supply of finished products, which we will use in our planned studies and commercialization efforts.. We will be dependent upon our contract manufacturers for the supply of the API in Mytesi and Canalevia. We currently have sufficient quantities of the botanical extract used in Neonorm and Equilevia to support initial commercialization of Neonorm and Equilevia. However, we will require additional quantities of the botanical extract if our ongoing commercial launch of Neonorm or our commercial launch of and Equilevia is successful. If we are not successful in reaching agreements with third parties on terms that we consider commercially reasonable for manufacturing and formulation, or if our contract manufacturer and formulator are not able to produce sufficient quantities or quality of API, botanical extract or finished product under their agreements, it could delay our plans and harm our business prospects.. The facilities used by our third-party contractors are subject to inspections, including by the FDA, and other regulators, as applicable. We also depend on our third-party contractors to comply with cGMP. If our third-party contractors do not maintain compliance with these strict regulatory requirements, we and they will not be able to secure or maintain regulatory approval for their facilities, which would have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, in some cases, we also are dependent on our third-party contractors to produce supplies in conformity to our specifications and maintain quality control and quality assurance practices and not to employ disqualified personnel. If the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority does not approve the facilities of our third-party contractors if so required, or if it withdraws any such approval in the future, we may need to find alternative manufacturing or formulation facilities, which could result in delays in our ability to develop or commercialize our human and animal products, if at all. We and our third-party contractors also may be subject to penalties and sanctions from the FDA and other regulatory authorities for any violations of applicable regulatory requirements. The USDA and the European Medicines Agency (the \"EMA\"), employ different regulatory standards than the FDA, so we may require multiple manufacturing processes and facilities for the same human or animal product candidate or any approved product. We are also exposed to risk if our third-party contractors do not comply with the negotiated terms of our agreements, or if they suffer damage or destruction to their facilities or equipment.. If we are unable to establish sales capabilities on our own or through third parties, we may not be able to market and sell our current or future human or animal products and product candidates, if approved, and generate product or other revenue.. We currently have limited sales, marketing or distribution capabilities, and prior to Napo's launch of Mytesi for the symptomatic relief of noninfectious diarrhea in adults with HIV/AIDS on antiretroviral therapy, and our launch of Neonorm for preweaned dairy calves, we had no experience in the sale, marketing and distribution of human or animal health products. There are significant risks involved in. 53. Table of Contents. building and managing a sales organization, including our potential inability to attract, hire, retain and motivate qualified individuals, generate sufficient sales leads, provide adequate training to sales and marketing personnel and effectively oversee a geographically dispersed sales and marketing team. Any failure or delay in the development of our internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities and entry into adequate arrangements with distributors or other partners would adversely impact the commercialization of Mytesi, Neonorm, Equilevia and, if approved, Canalevia. If we are not successful in commercializing Mytesi, Neonorm, Equilevia, Canalevia or any of our other line extension products, either on our own or through one or more distributors, or in generating upfront licensing or other fees, we may never generate significant revenue and may continue to incur significant losses, which would harm our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in distribution channels for animal health prescription drugs may make it more difficult or expensive to distribute our animal health prescription drug products.. In the United States, animal owners typically purchase their animal health prescription drugs from their local veterinarians who also prescribe such drugs. There is a trend, however, toward increased purchases of animal health prescription drugs from Internet-based retailers, \"big-box\" retail stores and other over-the-counter distribution channels, which follows an emerging shift in recent years away from the traditional veterinarian distribution channel. It is also possible that animal owners may come to rely increasingly on Internet-based animal health information rather than on their veterinarians. We currently expect to market our animal health prescription drugs directly to veterinarians, so any reduced reliance on veterinarians by animal owners could harm our business and prospects by making it more difficult or expensive for us to distribute our animal health prescription drug products.. Legislation has been or may be proposed in various states that would require veterinarians to provide animal owners with written prescriptions and disclosures that the animal owner has the right to fill the prescriptions through other means. If enacted, such legislation could lead to a reduction in the number of animal owners who purchase their animal health pharmaceuticals directly from veterinarians, which also could harm our business.. Consolidation of our customers could negatively affect the pricing of our animal health products.. Veterinarians will be our primary customers for our prescription animal health drug products, as well as, to some extent, our non-prescription animal health products, such as Neonorm and Equilevia. In recent years, there has been a trend towards the consolidation of veterinary clinics and animal hospitals. If this trend continues, these large clinics and hospitals could attempt to leverage their buying power to obtain favorable pricing from us and other animal health product companies. Any downward pressure on the prices of any of our animal health products could harm our operating results and financial condition.. We will need to increase the size of our organization and may not successfully manage such growth.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 36 full-time equivalent (FTE) employees. Our ability to manage our growth effectively will require us to hire, train, retain, manage and motivate additional employees and to implement and improve our operational, financial and management systems. These demands also may require the hiring of additional senior management personnel or the development of additional expertise by our senior management personnel. If we fail to expand and enhance our operational, financial and management systems in conjunction with our potential future growth, it could harm our business and operating results.. 54. Table of Contents. Research and development with respect to our animal health products and product candidates relies on evaluations in animals, which is controversial and may become subject to bans or additional regulations.. The evaluation of our animal health products and product candidates in target animals is required to develop, formulate and commercialize our animal health products and product candidates. Although our animal testing will be subject to GLPs and GCPs, as applicable, animal testing in the human pharmaceutical industry and in other industries continues to be the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. Some organizations and individuals have sought to ban animal testing or encourage the adoption of additional regulations applicable to animal testing. To the extent that such bans or regulations are imposed, our research and development activities with respect to animal health products, and by extension our operating results and financial condition, could be harmed. In addition, negative publicity about animal practices by us or in our industry could harm our reputation among potential customers.. If approved, our animal health prescription drug product candidates may be marketed in the United States only in the target animals and for the indications for which they are approved, and if we want to expand the approved animals or indications, it will need to obtain additional approvals, which may not be granted.. If our animal health prescription drug product candidates are approved by regulatory authorities, we may market or advertise them only in the specific species and for treatment of the specific indications for which they were approved, which could limit use of the products by veterinarians and animal owners. We intend to develop, promote and commercialize approved products for other animals and new treatment indications in the future, but we cannot be certain whether or at what additional time and expense we will be able to do so. If we do not obtain marketing approvals for other species or for new indications, our ability to expand our animal health business may be harmed.. Under the Animal Medicinal Drug Use Clarification Act of 1994, veterinarians are permitted to prescribe extra-label uses of certain approved animal drugs and approved human drugs for animals under certain conditions. While veterinarians may in the future prescribe and use human-approved products or use our products for extra-label uses, we may not promote our animal health products for extra-label uses. We note that extra-label uses are uses for which the product has not received approval. If the FDA determines that any of our marketing activities constitute promotion of an extra-label use, we could be subject to regulatory enforcement, including seizure of any misbranded or mislabeled drugs, and civil or criminal penalties, any of which could have an adverse impact on our reputation and expose us to potential liability. We will continue to spend resources ensuring that our promotional claims for our animal health products and product candidates remain compliant with applicable FDA laws and regulations, including materials we post or link to on our website. For example, in 2012, our Chief Executive Officer received an \"untitled letter\" from the FDA while at Napo regarding preapproval promotion statements constituting misbranding of crofelemer, which was then an investigational drug. These statements were included in archived press releases included on Napo's website. Napo was required to expend time and resources to revise its website to remove the links in order to address the concerns raised in the FDA's letter.. If our human or animal prescription drug product candidates are approved by regulatory authorities, the misuse or extra-label use of such products may harm our reputation or result in financial or other damages.. If our human or animal prescription drug product candidates are approved by regulatory authorities, there may be increased risk of product liability if physicians, veterinarians, patients, animal owners or others, as applicable, attempt to use such products extra-label, including the use of our products for indications or in species for which they have not been approved. Furthermore, the use of an approved human or animal drug for indications other than those indications for which such products have been approved may not be effective, which could harm our reputation and lead to an increased risk of litigation. If we are deemed by a governmental or regulatory agency to have engaged in the promotion of any approved human or animal product for extra-label use, such agency could request that we modify our training or promotional materials and practices and we could be subject to significant fines and penalties,. 55. Table of Contents. and the imposition of these sanctions could also affect our reputation and position within the gastrointestinal health industry. Any of these events could harm our reputation and our operating results.. We may not maintain the benefits associated with MUMS designation, including market exclusivity.. Although we have received MUMS designation for Canalevia for the treatment of CID in dogs, we may not maintain the benefits associated with MUMS designation. MUMS designation is a status similar to \"orphan drug\" status for human drugs. When we were granted MUMS designation for Canalevia for the indication of CID in dogs, we became eligible for incentives to support the approval or conditional approval of the designated use. This designation does not allow us to commercialize a product until such time as we obtain approval or conditional approval of the product.. Because Canalevia has received MUMS designation for the identified particular intended use, we are eligible to obtain seven years of exclusive marketing rights upon approval (or conditional approval) of Canalevia for that intended use and become eligible for grants to defray the cost of our clinical work. Each designation that is granted must be unique,  i.e., only one designation can be granted for a particular API in a particular dosage form for a particular intended use. The intended use includes both the target species and the disease or condition to be treated.. At some point, we could lose MUMS designation. The basis for a lost designation can include but is not limited to, our failure to engage with due diligence in moving forward with a non-conditional approval, or a competing product has received conditional approval or approval prior to our product candidate for the same indication or species. In addition, MUMS designation may be withdrawn for a variety of reasons such as where the FDA determines that the request for designation was materially defective, or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the prescription drug product to meet the needs of animals with the rare disease or condition. If this designation is lost, it could have a negative impact on the product and us, which includes but is not limited to, market exclusivity related to MUMS designation, or eligibility for grants as a result of MUMS designation.. The market for our human or animal products, and the gastrointestinal health market as a whole, is uncertain and may be smaller than we anticipate, which could lead to lower revenue and harm our operating results.. It is very difficult to estimate the commercial potential of any of our human or animal products because the gastrointestinal health market continues to evolve and it is difficult to predict the market potential for our products. The market will depend on important factors such as safety and efficacy compared to other available treatments, changing standards of care, preferences of physicians and veterinarians, as applicable, the willingness of patients and companion and production animal owners, as applicable, to pay for such products, and the availability of competitive alternatives that may emerge either during the product development process or after commercial introduction. If the market potential for our human or animal products is less than we anticipate due to one or more of these factors, it could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, the willingness of patients and companion and production animal owners to pay for our products may be less than we anticipate, and may be negatively affected by overall economic conditions. Moreover, with respect to our animal health products, the current penetration of animal insurance in the United States is low, animal owners are likely to have to pay out-of-pocket, and such owners may not be willing or able to pay for our products.. Insurance coverage for Mytesi for its current approved indication could decrease or end, or Mytesi might not receive insurance coverage for any approved follow-on indications, which could lead to lower revenue and harm our operating results.. For its current approved indication, Mytesi is currently covered by all of the top 10 commercial insurance plans, representing more than 245 million U.S. lives. In 50% of these plans it is currently on Tier 3 with no restrictions, and in 50% it is currently on Tier 3 with a prior authorization required. In the. 56. Table of Contents. top 10 Managed Medicare plans, which represent 24 million covered lives, Mytesi is currently covered on 10% of plans. Mytesi is currently covered on Medicaid in all 50 states. However, the nature or extent of coverage for Mytesi by any of these plans or programs could change or be terminated, or Mytesi might not receive insurance coverage for any approved follow-on indications. Either outcome could lead to significantly lower revenue and significantly harm our operating results.. We may engage in future acquisitions that increase our capital requirements, dilute our stockholders, cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities and subject us to other risks.. We may evaluate various strategic transactions, including licensing or acquiring complementary products, technologies or businesses. Any potential acquisitions may entail numerous risks, including increased operating expenses and cash requirements, assimilation of operations and products, retention of key employees, diversion of our management's attention and uncertainties in our ability to maintain key business relationships of the acquired entities. In addition, if we undertake acquisitions, we may issue dilutive securities, assume or incur debt obligations, incur large one-time expenses and acquire intangible assets that could result in significant future amortization expense. Moreover, we may not be able to locate suitable acquisition opportunities and this inability could impair our ability to grow or obtain access to technology or products that may be important to the development of our business.. Certain of the countries in which we plan to commercialize our products in the future are developing countries, some of which have potentially unstable political and economic climates.. We may commercialize our products in jurisdictions that are developing and emerging countries. This may expose us to the impact of political or economic upheaval, and we could be subject to unforeseen administrative or fiscal burdens. At present, we are not insured against the political and economic risks of operating in these countries. Any significant changes to the political or economic climate in any of the developing countries in which we operate or plan to sell products either now or in the future may have a substantial adverse effect on our business, financial condition, trading performance and prospects.. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of foreign currencies could result in currency transactions losses.. As we expand our operations, we expect to be exposed to risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates. We anticipate that we will commercialize Neonorm for preweaned dairy calves and its line extensions, as well as possibly Canalevia and its line extensions in jurisdictions outside the United States. As a result, we will also be further affected by fluctuations in exchange rates in the future to the extent that sales are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. We do not currently employ any hedging or other strategies to minimize this risk, although we may seek to do so in the future.. There are other gastrointestinal-focused human pharmaceutical companies, and we face competition in the marketplaces in which we operate or plan to operate.. Our commercial success in the human drug arena remains dependent on maintaining or establishing a competitive position in the market for the current, approved specialty indication of Mytesi as well as for planned Mytesi follow-on indications. In the IBS-D market in particular, several competitors have commercially available products approved for our planned IBS-D indication. The availability of our competitors' products could limit the demand, and the price we are able to charge, for any drug candidate we develop. The inability to compete with existing or subsequently introduced drug candidates would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and prospects.. 57. Table of Contents. Our obligations to Hercules, and subject to certain events, to CVP, are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our veterinary related assets, so if we default on those obligations, Hercules or CVP could foreclose on our assets.. Our obligations under the loan and security agreement with Hercules Capital, Inc. (f/k/a Hercules Technology Growth Capital, Inc.) (\"Hercules\") are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our veterinary related assets, including intellectual property. As a result, if we default on our obligations under the loan and security agreement (the \"Hercules Debt\"), Hercules could foreclose on its security interests and liquidate some or all of these assets, which would harm our veterinary related business, financial condition and results of operations and could require us to reduce or cease operations. In addition, Chicago Venture Partners, L.P. (\"CVP\") may acquire a security interest in substantially all of our veterinary related assets upon the earlier of CVP purchasing Hercules Debt or the repayment in full of the Hercules Debt, as provided in the Security Agreement, dated June 29, 2017, between us and CVP, the Security Agreement, dated December 8, 2017, between us and CVP, and the Subordination Agreement and Right to Purchase Debt, dated June 29, 2017, by and among us, CVP and Hercules.. Napo's obligations to the holders of the Kingdon Notes are secured by a security interest in substantially all of Napo's assets, so if we default on those obligations, the convertible note holders could foreclose on Napo's assets.. Napo's obligations under the convertible promissory notes (the \"Kingdon Notes\") issued pursuant to the Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement, dated March 31, 2017, by and among Kingdon Associates, M. Kingdon Offshore Master Fund L.P., Kingdon Family Partnership, L.P. and Kingdon Credit Master Fund L.P. (collectively, the \"Kingdon Purchasers\") and Napo and the related transaction documents are secured by a security interest in substantially all of Napo's assets, including Napo intellectual property. As a result, if we default under our obligations under the Kingdon Notes or the transaction documents, the holders of such Kingdon Notes, acting through their appointed agent, could foreclose on their security interests and liquidate some or all of these assets, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and could require us to reduce or cease operations.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. We cannot be certain that our patent strategy will be effective to protect against competition. Our commercial success depends in large part on obtaining and maintaining patent, trademark and trade secret protection of our human or animal products, both prescription and non-prescription, our current human or animal product candidates and any future human or animal product candidates, and their respective components, formulations, methods used to manufacture them and methods of treatment, as well as successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property rights against third-party challenges. Our ability to stop unauthorized third parties from making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing our products or our product candidates is dependent upon the extent to which we have rights under valid and enforceable patents, trade secrets and other similar intellectual property that cover these activities. The patent prosecution process is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prepare, file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of inventions made in the course of development and commercialization activities in time to obtain patent protection on them.. We have a portfolio of United States and foreign issued patents and pending applications related to our products and product candidates. We have five issued United States patents listed in the FDA's Orange Book for Mytesi. We plan to rely on certain of these issued patents as protection for Canalevia. The strength of patents in the field of pharmaceuticals and animal health involves complex legal and scientific questions and can be uncertain. We cannot be certain that pending applications will issue as patents. For those patents that are already issued and even if other patents do successfully issue, third parties may challenge their validity, enforceability or scope, which may result in such patents being narrowed,. 58. Table of Contents. invalidated or held unenforceable. Furthermore, even if they are unchallenged, our patents may not adequately protect our intellectual property or prevent others from designing around their claims. If the patents we have are not maintained or their scope is significantly narrowed or if we are not able to obtain issued patents from pending applications, our business and prospects would be harmed.. Recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of any patent applications and the enforcement or defense of any patents that issue. On September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted, redefine prior art, may affect patent litigation, and switch the U.S. patent system from a \"first-to-invent\" system to a \"first-to-file\" system. Under a \"first-to-file\" system, assuming the other requirements for patentability are met, the first inventor to file a patent application generally will be entitled to the patent on an invention regardless of whether another inventor had made the invention earlier. The USPTO has developed new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act, and in particular, the first-to-file provisions, became effective on March 16, 2013. Among some of the other changes to the patent laws are changes that limit where a patentee may file a patent infringement suit and that provide opportunities for third parties to challenge any issued patent in the USPTO. The Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our patents and any other patents that issue, all of which could harm our business and financial condition.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. Periodic maintenance and annuity fees on any issued patent and, in certain jurisdictions, pending applications, are due to be paid to the USPTO and foreign patent agencies in several stages over the lifetime of the patent. The USPTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. While an inadvertent lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Non-compliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include failure to respond to official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. If we fail to maintain the patents and patent applications covering our prescription drug products, prescription drug product candidates and non-prescription products, our competitors might be able to enter the market, which would harm our business.. Third parties may initiate legal proceedings alleging that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, which would be costly, time-consuming and, if successfully asserted against us, delay or prevent the development and commercialization of our current or future products and product candidates.. Our research, development and commercialization activities may infringe or otherwise violate or be claimed to infringe or otherwise violate patents owned or controlled by other parties. There may be patents already issued of which we are unaware that might be infringed by a product or one of our current or future prescription drug product candidates or non-prescription products. Moreover, it is also possible that patents may exist that we are aware of, but that we do not believe are relevant to our current or future prescription drug product candidates or non-prescription products, which could nevertheless be found to block our freedom to market these products. Because patent applications can take many years to issue and. 59. Table of Contents. may be confidential for 18 months or more after filing, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware and which may later result in issued patents that may be infringed by our current or future prescription drug product candidates or non-prescription products. We cannot be certain that our products, current or future prescription drug product candidates or non-prescription products will not infringe these or other existing or future third-party patents. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents.. To the extent we become subject to future third-party claims against us or our collaborators, we could incur substantial expenses and, if any such claims are successful, we could be liable to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorney's fees if we or our collaborators are found to be willfully infringing a third party's patents. If a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the human or animal prescription drug or non-prescription product that is the subject of the suit. Even if we are successful in defending such claims, infringement and other intellectual property claims can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and divert management's attention from our business and operations. As a result of or in order to avoid potential patent infringement claims, we or our collaborators may be compelled to seek a license from a third party for which we would be required to pay license fees or royalties, or both. Moreover, these licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain such a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could allow our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Any of these events could harm our business and prospects.. Our proprietary position depends upon patents that are formulation or method-of-use patents, which do not prevent a competitor from using the same human or animal drug for another use.. Composition-of-matter patents on the API in prescription drug products are generally considered to be the strongest form of intellectual property protection because such patents provide protection without regard to any particular method of use or manufacture or formulation of the API used. The composition-of-matter patents for crofelemer, the API in Mytesi and Canalevia, have expired, and the issued patents and applications relevant to our products and product candidates cover formulations and methods of use for crofelemer and the botanical extract in Neonorm and Equilevia.. Method-of-use patents protect the use of a product for the specified method and formulation patents cover formulations of the API or botanical extract. These types of patents do not prevent a competitor from developing or marketing an identical product for an indication that is outside the scope of the patented method or from developing a different formulation that is outside the scope of the patented formulation. Moreover, with respect to method-of-use patents, even if competitors do not actively promote their product for our targeted indications or uses for which we may obtain patents, physicians may recommend that patients use our products extra-label, and veterinarians may recommend that animal owners use these products extra-label, or animal owners may do so themselves. Although extra-label use may infringe or contribute to the infringement of method-of-use patents, the practice is common and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute.. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful, and third parties may challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents and they may be successful.. We intend to rely upon a combination of regulatory exclusivity periods, patents, trade secret protection, and confidentiality agreements to protect the intellectual property related to Mytesi, our current prescription drug product candidates, non-prescription products and our development programs.. If the breadth or strength of protection provided by any patents, patent applications or future patents we may own, license, or pursue with respect to any of our current or future product candidates or products. 60. Table of Contents. is threatened, it could threaten our ability to commercialize any of our current or future human or animal product candidates or products. Further, if we encounter delays in our development efforts, the period of time during which we could market any of our current or future product candidates or products under any patent protection we obtain would be reduced.. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new product candidates or products, patents protecting such candidates might expire before or shortly after such product candidates or products are commercialized. Patent term extension has been applied for US 7,341,744 to account for regulatory delays in obtaining human marketing approval for crofelemer. The FDA and the USPTO have confirmed that US 7,341,744 is eligible for an extension of 1075 days and we await issuance of the patent term extension certificate. With respect to requests for patent term extensions, the applicable authorities, including the USPTO and the FDA, and any equivalent regulatory authority in other countries, may not agree with our assessment of whether such extensions are available, and may refuse to grant extensions to patents, or may grant more limited extensions than requested. If this occurs, our competitors may take advantage of our investment in development and trials by referencing our clinical and preclinical data and launch their product earlier than might otherwise be the case.. Even where laws provide protection or we are able to obtain patents, costly and time-consuming litigation may be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and the outcome of such litigation would be uncertain. Moreover, any actions we may bring to enforce our intellectual property against our competitors could provoke them to bring counterclaims against us, and some of our competitors have substantially greater intellectual property portfolios than we have. To counter infringement or unauthorized use of any patents we may obtain, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate. In addition, if we or one of our future collaborators were to initiate legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent covering one of our products, current product candidates, or one of our future products, the defendant could counterclaim that the patent is invalid or unenforceable. In patent litigation in the United States, defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity or unenforceability are commonplace and challenges to validity of patents in certain foreign jurisdictions is common as well. Grounds for a validity challenge could be an alleged failure to meet any of several statutory requirements, including lack of novelty, obviousness, non-enablement or lack of statutory subject matter. Grounds for an unenforceability assertion could be an allegation that someone connected with prosecution of the patent withheld relevant material information from the USPTO, or made a materially misleading statement, during prosecution. In particular, Mytesi has regulatory exclusivity as a new chemical entity until December 31, 2017. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, a competitor seeking to market a generic form of Mytesi before the expiration of any of the patents listed in the FDA's Orange Book for Mytesi could file (and could have filed after December 31, 2016) an ANDA with a certification under 21 U.S.C. § 3559j)(2)(A)(iv) that each of these patents (except for those which the ANDA filer states it will market only after its expiration) is either invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. We may assert the patents in Hatch-Waxman litigation against the party filing the ANDA to keep the competing product off of the market until the patents expire but there is a risk that we will not succeed. The party filing the ANDA may also counterclaim in the litigation that the our patents are not valid or unenforceable, and the court may find one or more claims of our patents invalid or unenforceable. If this occurs, a competing generic product could be marketed prior to expiration of our patents listed in the Orange Book, which would harm our business.. Third parties may also raise similar validity claims before the USPTO in post-grant proceedings such as ex parte reexaminations,  inter partes review, or post-grant review, or oppositions or similar proceedings outside the United States, in parallel with litigation or even outside the context of litigation. The outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability is unpredictable. If a defendant were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity or unenforceability, we would lose at least part, and perhaps all, of any future patent protection on one or more of our products or our current or future product candidates. Such a loss of patent protection could harm our business. We cannot be certain that there is no invalidating prior. 61. Table of Contents. art, of which we and the patent examiner were unaware during prosecution or other basis for a finding of invalidity. Litigation proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be unsuccessful, it could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Finally, we may not be able to prevent, misappropriation of our trade secrets or confidential information, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the United States.. If we are unable to prevent disclosure of our trade secrets or other confidential information to third parties, our competitive position may be impaired.. We also rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that is not patentable or for which we have not filed patent applications, processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and other elements of our product development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information or technology that is not covered by patents. Although we require all of our employees to assign their inventions to us, and endeavor to execute confidentiality agreements with all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information or technology, we cannot be certain that we have executed such agreements with all parties who may have helped to develop our intellectual property or had access to our proprietary information, or that our agreements will not be breached. We cannot guarantee that our trade secrets and other confidential proprietary information will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. If we are unable to prevent disclosure of our intellectual property to third parties, we may not be able to maintain a competitive advantage in our market, which would harm our business.. Any disclosure to or misappropriation by third parties of our confidential proprietary information could enable competitors to quickly duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, and erode our competitive position in our market.. Changes in U.S. patent law could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products.. As is the case with other human or animal pharmaceutical product companies, our success is heavily dependent on intellectual property, particularly patents. Obtaining and enforcing patents in the human and animal health industries involves both technological and legal complexity. Therefore, obtaining and enforcing patents is costly, time-consuming and inherently uncertain. In addition, the United States has recently enacted and implemented wide-ranging patent reform legislation. The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future, this combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the USPTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce patents that we have licensed or that we might obtain in the future.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world, which could impair our business.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on human and animal drug products, product candidates and non-prescription products throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and, further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we may obtain patent protection, but where patent enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our products in jurisdictions where we do not have any issued or licensed patents and any future patent claims or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from so competing.. 62. Table of Contents. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to animal health products, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our future patents, if any, or patents we have in licensed, or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the United States. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the United States and abroad. Proceedings to enforce our future patent rights, if any, in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business.. Our business could be harmed if we fail to obtain certain registered trademarks in the United States or in other countries.. Our registered and pending U.S. trademarks include NEONORM®, MYTESI®, NAPO®, Napo Logo®, CANALEVIA, EQUILEVIA, JAGUAR ANIMAL HEALTH, the Jaguar Animal Health logo and MY HIV THANK YOU. We also own pending applications for the CANALEVIA mark in a number of foreign countries. We have not yet filed applications for our company name or our logo in the U.S. During trademark registration proceedings, we may receive rejections of our trademark applications. If so, we will have an opportunity to respond, but we may be unable to overcome such rejections. In addition, the USPTO and comparable agencies in many foreign jurisdictions may permit third parties to oppose pending trademark applications and to seek to cancel registered trademarks. If opposition or cancellation proceedings are filed against any of our trademark applications or any registered trademarks, our trademarks may not survive such proceedings. Moreover, any name we propose to use with our prescription drug product candidates in the United States, including CANALEVIA, must be approved by the FDA, regardless of whether we have registered or applied to register as a trademark. The FDA typically conducts a review of proposed prescription drug product names, including an evaluation of potential for confusion with other product names. If the FDA objects to any of our proposed proprietary product names, we may be required to expend significant additional resources in an effort to identify a suitable substitute name that would qualify under applicable trademark laws, not infringe the existing rights of third parties and be acceptable to the FDA.. We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information of third parties.. We have received confidential and proprietary information from third parties. In addition, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology, pharmaceutical or animal health companies. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees, consultants or independent contractors have inadvertently or otherwise improperly used or disclosed confidential information of these third parties or our employees' former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against any such claims. Even if we were successful in defending against any such claims, such litigation could result in substantial cost and be a distraction to our management and employees.. Risks Related to Government Regulation. Even if we receive any of the required regulatory approvals for our current or future prescription drug product candidates and non-prescription products, we will be subject to ongoing obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense.. If the FDA or any other regulatory body approves any of our current or future prescription drug product candidates, or if necessary, our non-prescription products, the manufacturing processes, clinical development, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion. 63. Table of Contents. and recordkeeping for the product may be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements could include, but are not limited to, submissions of efficacy and safety and other post-marketing information and reports, establishment registration, and product listing, compliance with new rules promulgated under the FSMA, as well as continued compliance with cGMP, GLP and GCP for any studies that we conduct post-approval. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with our contract manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, are reportable events to the FDA and may result in, among other things:. <U+0095> restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, withdrawal of the product from the market, revised labeling, or voluntary or involuntary product recalls;    <U+0095> additional clinical studies, fines, warning letters or holds on target animal studies;    <U+0095> refusal by the FDA, or other regulators to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our strategic collaborators related to the unknown problems, or suspension or revocation of the problematic product's license approvals;    <U+0095> product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; and    <U+0095> injunctions and/or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.. The FDA or other regulatory agency's policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates or require certain changes to the labeling or additional clinical work concerning safety and efficacy of the product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would harm our business. In addition, failure to comply with these regulatory requirements could result in significant penalties.. In addition, from time to time, we may enter into consulting and other financial arrangements with veterinarians, who prescribe or recommend our products, once approved. As a result, we may be subject to state, federal and foreign healthcare and/or veterinary medicine laws. If our financial relationships with veterinarians are found to be in violation of such laws that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties.. The issuance by the FDA of protocol concurrences for our pivotal studies does not guarantee ultimate approval of our NADA.. We intend to seek protocol concurrences from the FDA for the pivotal trial of Canalevia that we have initiated for acute diarrhea in dogs and for future pivotal trials in other indications. A pivotal study protocol is submitted to the FDA by a drug sponsor for purposes of obtaining FDA review of the protocol. Prior FDA review of the protocol for a pivotal study makes it more likely that the study design will generate information the sponsor needs to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA whether the drug is safe and effective for its intended use. It creates an expectation by the sponsor that the FDA should not later alter its perspectives on these issues unless public or animal health concerns appear that were not recognized at the time of protocol assessment. Even if the FDA issues a protocol concurrence, ultimate approval of an NADA by the FDA is not guaranteed because a final determination that the agreed-upon protocol satisfies a specific objective, such as the demonstration of efficacy, or supports an approval decision, will be based on a complete review of all the data submitted to the FDA including the outcome of the study for which protocol concurrence was received. Even if we were to obtain protocol concurrence such concurrence does not guarantee that the results of the study will support a particular finding or approval of the new drug.. 64. Table of Contents. Any of our current or future prescription drug product candidates or non-prescription products may cause or contribute to adverse medical events that we would be required to report to regulatory authorities and, if we fail to do so, we could be subject to sanctions that would harm our business.. If we are successful in commercializing any of our current or future prescription drug product candidates or non-prescription products, certain regulatory authorities will require that we report certain information about adverse medical events if those products may have caused or contributed to those adverse events. The timing of our obligation to report would be triggered by the date we become aware of the adverse event as well as the nature of the event. We may fail to report adverse events we become aware of within the prescribed timeframe. We may also fail to appreciate that we have become aware of a reportable adverse event, especially if such event is not reported to us as an adverse event or if it is an adverse event that is unexpected or removed in time from the use of our products. If we fail to comply with our reporting obligations, the regulatory authorities could take action including, but not limited to, criminal prosecution, seizure of our products, facility inspections, removal of our products from the market, recalls of certain lots or batches, or cause a delay in approval or clearance of future products.. Legislative or regulatory reforms with respect to animal health may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory clearance or approval of any of our current or future product candidates and to produce, market, and distribute our products after clearance or approval is obtained.. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in the U.S. Congress or other jurisdictions in which we intend to operate that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the testing, regulatory clearance or approval, manufacture, and marketing of regulated products. In addition, the FDA's regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA and such other regulators in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products and product candidates. Similar changes in laws or regulations can occur in other countries. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations in the United States or in other countries may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of any of our current or future products and product candidates. We cannot determine what effect changes in regulations, statutes, legal interpretation or policies, when and if promulgated, enacted or adopted may have on our business in the future. Such changes could, among other things, require:. <U+0095> changes to manufacturing methods;    <U+0095> additional clinical trials or testing;    <U+0095> new requirements related to approval to enter the market;    <U+0095> recall, replacement, or discontinuance of certain products; and    <U+0095> additional record keeping or the development of certain regulatory required hazard identification plans.. Each of these would likely entail substantial time and cost and could harm our financial results. In addition, delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory clearances or approvals for any future products would harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We believe that our non-prescription products are not subject to regulation by regulatory agencies in the United States, but there is a risk that regulatory bodies may disagree with our interpretation, or may redefine the scope of their regulatory reach in the future, which would result in additional expense and could delay or prevent the commercialization of these products.. The FDA retains jurisdiction over all animal prescription drug products however, in many instances, the Federal Trade Commission will exercise primary or concurrent jurisdiction with FDA on non-prescription products as to post marketing claims made regarding the product. On April 22, 1996, the FDA published a statement in the Federal Register, 61 FR 17706, that it believes that the Dietary. 65. Table of Contents. Supplement and Health Education Act (\"DSHEA\"), does not apply to animal health supplement products, such as our non-prescription products. Accordingly, the FDA's Center for Veterinary Medicine only regulates those animal supplements that fall within the FDA's definition of an animal drug, animal food or animal feed additive. The Federal Food Drug and Cosmetic Act defines food as \"articles used for food or drink for man or other animals and articles used as components of any such article.\" Animal foods are not subject to pre-market approval and are designed to provide a nutritive purpose to the animals that receive them. Feed additives are defined as those articles that are added to an animal's feed or water as illustrated by the guidance documents. Our non-prescription products are not added to food, are not ingredients in food nor are they added to any animal's drinking water. Therefore, our non-prescription products do not fall within the definition of a food or feed additive. In light of the pronouncement by the FDA that the DSHEA was not intended to apply to animals, the FDA seeks to regulate such supplements as food or food additives depending on the intended use of the product. The intended use is demonstrated by how the article is included in a food, or added to the animals' intake (i.e., through its drinking water). If the intended use of the product does not fall within the proscribed use making the product a food, it cannot be regulated as a food. There is no intent to make our non-prescription products a component of an animal food, either directly or indirectly. A feed additive is a product that is added to a feed for any reason including the top dressing of an already prepared feed. Some additives, such as certain forage, are deemed to be Generally Recognized as Safe, or GRAS, and therefore, not subject to a feed Additive Petition approval prior to use. However, the substances deemed GRAS are generally those that are recognized as providing nutrients as a food does. We do not believe that our non-prescription products fit within this framework either. Finally, a new animal drug refers to drugs intended for use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease in animals. Our non-prescription Neonorm Foal and Neonorm Calf products are not intended to diagnose, cure, mitigate, treat or prevent disease and therefore, do not fit within the definition of an animal drug. Additionally, because a previously marketed human formulation of the botanical extract in our non-prescription products was regulated as a human dietary supplement subject to the DSHEA (and not regulated as a drug by the FDA), we do not believe that the FDA would regulate the animal formulation used in our non-prescription products in a different manner. We do not believe that our non-prescription products fit the definition of an animal drug, food or food additive and therefore are not regulated by the FDA at this time.. However, despite many such unregulated animal supplements currently on the market, the FDA may choose in the future to exercise jurisdiction over animal supplement products in which case, we may be subject to unknown regulations thereby inhibiting our ability to launch or to continue marketing our non-prescription products. In the past, the FDA has redefined or attempted to redefine some non-prescription non-feed products as falling within the definition of drug, feed or feed additive and therefore subjected those products to the relevant regulations. We have not discussed with the FDA its belief that the FDA currently does not exercise jurisdiction over our non-prescription products. Should the FDA assert regulatory authority over our non-prescription products, we would take commercially reasonable steps to address the FDA's concerns, potentially including but not limited to, seeking registration for such products, reformulating such products to further distance such products from regulatory control, or ceasing sale of such products. Further, the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, an agency of the USDA, may at some point choose to exercise jurisdiction over certain non-prescription products that are not intended for production animals. We do not believe we are currently subject to such regulation, but could be in the future. If the FDA or other regulatory agencies, such as the USDA, try to regulate our non-prescription products, we could be required to seek regulatory approval for our non-prescription products, which would result in additional expense and could delay or prevent the commercialization of these products.. 66. Table of Contents. Even if Napo receives the required regulatory approvals for Napo's current or future prescription drug product candidates and non-prescription products, Napo will be subject to ongoing obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense.. If the FDA or any other regulatory body approves any of Napo's current or future prescription drug product candidates, or if necessary, Napo's non-prescription products, the manufacturing processes, clinical development, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for the product is subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements could include, but are not limited to, submissions of efficacy and safety and other post-marketing information and reports, establishment registration, and product listing, compliance with new rules promulgated under the FSMA, as well as continued compliance with cGMP, GLP and GCP for any studies that Napo conducts post-approval. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with Napo's contract manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, are reportable events to the FDA and may result in, among other things:. <U+0095> restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, withdrawal of the product from the market, revised labeling, or voluntary or involuntary product recalls;    <U+0095> additional clinical studies fines, warning letters or holds on studies;    <U+0095> refusal by the FDA, or other regulators to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by Napo or Napo's strategic collaborators related to the unknown problems, or suspension or revocation of the problematic product's license approvals;    <U+0095> product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; and    <U+0095> injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.. The FDA or other regulatory agency's policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of Napo's product candidates or require certain changes to the labeling or require additional clinical work concerning safety and efficacy of the product candidates. Napo cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If Napo is slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if Napo is not able to maintain regulatory compliance, Napo may lose any marketing approval that Napo may have obtained and Napo may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would harm Napo's business. In addition, failure to comply with these regulatory requirements could result in significant penalties.. In addition, from time to time, Napo may enter into consulting and other financial arrangements with physicians, who prescribe or recommend Napo's products, once approved. As a result, Napo may be subject to state, federal and foreign healthcare laws, including but not limited to anti-kickback laws. If Napo's financial relationships with physicians are found to be in violation of such laws that apply to Napo, Napo may be subject to penalties.. The issuance by the FDA of protocol concurrences for Napo's pivotal studies does not guarantee ultimate approval of Napo's NDA.. Napo intends to seek protocol concurrences from the FDA for future pivotal trials that Napo initiates. A pivotal study protocol is submitted to the FDA by a drug sponsor for purposes of obtaining FDA review of the protocol. Prior FDA review of the protocol for a pivotal study makes it more likely that the study will generate information the sponsor needs to demonstrate whether the drug is safe and effective for its intended use. It creates an expectation by the sponsor that the FDA should not later alter its perspectives on these issues unless public concerns appear that were not recognized at the time of protocol assessment.. 67. Table of Contents. Even if the FDA issues a protocol concurrence, ultimate approval of an NDA by the FDA is not guaranteed because a final determination that the agreed-upon protocol satisfies a specific objective, such as the demonstration of efficacy, or supports an approval decision, will be based on a complete review of all the data submitted to the FDA. Even if Napo were to obtain protocol concurrence such concurrence does not guarantee that the results of the study will support a particular finding or approval of the new drug.. Any of Napo's current or future prescription drug product candidates or non-prescription products may cause or contribute to adverse medical events that Napo would be required to report to regulatory authorities and, if Napo fails to do so, Napo could be subject to sanctions that would harm Napo's business.. If Napo is successful in commercializing any of Napo's current or future prescription drug product candidates or non-prescription products, certain regulatory authorities will require that Napo report certain information about adverse medical events if those products may have caused or contributed to those adverse events. The timing of Napo's obligation to report would be triggered by the date Napo becomes aware of the adverse event as well as the nature of the event. Napo may fail to report adverse events Napo becomes aware of within the prescribed timeframe. Napo may also fail to appreciate that Napo has become aware of a reportable adverse event, especially if it is not reported to Napo as an adverse event or if it is an adverse event that is unexpected or removed in time from the use of Napo's products. If Napo fails to comply with Napo's reporting obligations, the regulatory authorities could take action including, but not limited to, criminal prosecution, seizure of Napo's products, facility inspections, removal of Napo's products from the market, recalls of certain lots or batches, or cause a delay in approval or clearance of future products.. Legislative or regulatory reforms make it more difficult and costly for Napo to obtain regulatory clearance or approval of any of Napo's current or future product candidates and to produce, market, and distribute Napo's products after clearance or approval is obtained.. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in the U.S. Congress or other jurisdictions in which Napo intends to operate that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the testing, regulatory clearance or approval, manufacture, and marketing of regulated products. In addition, the FDA's regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA and such other regulators in ways that may significantly affect Napo's business and Napo's products and product candidates. Similar changes in laws or regulations can occur in other countries. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations in the United States or in other countries may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of any of Napo's current or future products and product candidates. Napo cannot determine what effect changes in regulations, statutes, legal interpretation or policies, when and if promulgated, enacted or adopted may have on Napo's business in the future. Such changes could, among other things, require:. <U+0095> changes to manufacturing methods;    <U+0095> additional clinical trials or testing;    <U+0095> new requirements related to approval to enter the market;    <U+0095> recall, replacement, or discontinuance of certain products; and    <U+0095> additional record keeping or the development of certain regulatory required hazard identification plans.. Each of these would likely entail substantial time and cost and could harm Napo's financial results. In addition, delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory clearances or approvals for any future products would harm Napo's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 68. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our failure to meet the continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Capital Market could result in a delisting of our common stock.. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, which imposes, among other requirements a minimum bid requirement. The closing bid price for our common stock must remain at or above $1.00 per share to comply with NASDAQ's minimum bid requirement for continued listing. If the closing bid price for our common stock is less than $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days, NASDAQ may send us a notice stating that we will be provided a period of 180 days to regain compliance with the minimum bid requirement or else NASDAQ may make a determination to delist our common stock. Our common stock traded for less than $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days, and we received notice of this from The NASDAQ Capital Market on May 16, 2017. Since we did not regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement during the initial 180 calendar day grace period, on November 13, 2017, we requested and were granted a second 180 calendar day grace period, or until May 14, 2018, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. The minimum bid price requirement will be met if our common stock has a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days during the 180 calendar day grace period. We are diligently working to evidence compliance with the minimum bid requirement for continued listing on NASDAQ and recently filed a definitive proxy statement seeking stockholder approval to give our Board the flexibility to effect a reverse stock split. However, we cannot assure you that a reverse stock split, if effected, will increase our stock price and have the desired effect of maintaining compliance with Nasdaq rules. The liquidity of our capital stock may even be harmed by a reverse stock split because of the reduced number of shares that would be outstanding after the reverse stock split, particularly if the stock price does not increase as a result of the reverse stock split.. The delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ may make it more difficult for us to raise capital on favorable terms in the future. Such a delisting would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock and would impair your ability to sell or purchase our common stock when you wish to do so. Further, if we were to be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock would cease to be recognized as covered securities and we would be subject to regulation in each state in which it offers its securities.. Moreover, there is no assurance that any actions that we take to restore our compliance with the NASDAQ minimum bid requirement would stabilize the market price or improve the liquidity of our common stock, prevent our common stock from falling below the NASDAQ minimum bid price required for continued listing again or prevent future non-compliance with NASDAQ's listing requirements.. We have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to the accounting for income taxes, and if we fail to remediate the material weakness, or experience any additional material weaknesses in the future or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future, we may not be able to accurately report our financial condition or results of operations which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and, as a result, the value of our common stock.. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\").. Preparing our consolidated financial statements involves a number of complex manual and automated processes, which are dependent upon individual data input or review and require significant management judgment. One or more of these elements may result in errors that may not be detected and could result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, our business and operating results may be harmed and we may fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. If material weaknesses in our internal control are. 69. Table of Contents. discovered or occur, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results.. In connection with the audit of our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2017, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in the standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board of the United States. Our management has determined that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017 because we did not adequately and timely review the accounting for income taxes. While the Company utilizes the assistance of an external income tax specialist to prepare its annual tax provision, management has concluded there to be a material weakness in the design of the Company's income tax controls in that the Company's policy that governs the data validation controls over data provided to and received from the external income tax specialist and the management review controls were not designed with appropriate levels of precision and were not undertaken in a timely manner.. We are enhancing our internal controls, processes and related documentation necessary to remediate our material weakness. We may not be able to complete our remediation, evaluation and testing in a timely fashion. If we are unable to remediate this material weakness, or if we identify one or more other material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will continue to be unable to conclude that our internal controls are effective. If we are unable to confirm that our internal control over financial reporting is effective we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. If our shares become subject to the penny stock rules, it would become more difficult to trade our shares.. The SEC has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks. Penny stocks are generally equity securities with a price of less than $5.00, other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or authorized for quotation on certain automated quotation systems, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system. If we do not retain a listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market and if the price of our common stock is less than $5.00, our common stock will be deemed a penny stock. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, before a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document containing specified information. In addition, the penny stock rules require that before effecting any transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, a broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive (i) the purchaser's written acknowledgment of the receipt of a risk disclosure statement; (ii) a written agreement to transactions involving penny stocks and (iii) a signed and dated copy of a written suitability statement. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the trading activity in the secondary market for our common stock, and therefore stockholders may have difficulty selling their shares.. The price of our common stock could be subject to volatility related or unrelated to our operations, and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses.. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include those discussed previously in this \"Risk Factors\" section of this report and others, such as:. <U+0095> delays in the commercialization of Mytesi, Neonorm, Canalevia, Equilevia or our other current or future prescription drug product candidates and non-prescription products;    <U+0095> any delays in, or suspension or failure of, our current and future studies;    <U+0095> announcements of regulatory approval or disapproval of any of our current or future product candidates or of regulatory actions affecting our company or our industry;. 70. Table of Contents. <U+0095> manufacturing and supply issues that affect product candidate or product supply for our studies or commercialization efforts;     <U+0095> quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors;    <U+0095> changes in our earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;    <U+0095> the payment of licensing fees or royalties in shares of our common stock;    <U+0095> announcements by us or our competitors of new prescription drug products or product candidates or non-prescription products, significant contracts, commercial relationships, acquisitions or capital commitments;    <U+0095> announcements relating to future development or license agreements including termination of such agreements;     <U+0095> adverse developments with respect to our intellectual property rights or those of our principal collaborators;     <U+0095> commencement of litigation involving us or our competitors;    <U+0095> any major changes in our board of directors or management;    <U+0095> new legislation in the United States relating to the prescription, sale, distribution or pricing of gastrointestinal health products;     <U+0095> product liability claims, other litigation or public concern about the safety of our prescription drug product or product candidates and non-prescription products or any such future products;    <U+0095> market conditions in the human or animal industry, in general, or in the gastrointestinal health sector, in particular, including performance of our competitors; and    <U+0095> general economic conditions in the United States and abroad.. In addition, the stock market, in general, or the market for stocks in our industry, in particular, may experience broad market fluctuations, which may adversely affect the market price or liquidity of our common stock. Any sudden decline in the market price of our common stock could trigger securities class-action lawsuits against us. If any of our stockholders were to bring such a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and the time and attention of our management would be diverted from our business and operations. We also could be subject to damages claims if we were found to be at fault in connection with a decline in our stock price.. No active market for our common stock exists or may develop, and you may not be able to resell our common stock when you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider attractive or satisfactory.. Prior to our initial public offering in May 2015, there was no public market for shares of our common stock. The listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market exists. Although our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, trading volume in our common stock has been limited and an active trading market for our shares may never develop or be sustained. If an active market for our common stock does not develop, you may be unable to sell your shares when you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider attractive or satisfactory. The lack of an active market may also adversely affect our ability to raise capital by selling securities in the future, or impair our ability to license or acquire other product candidates, businesses or technologies using our shares as consideration.. 71. Table of Contents. The sale of our common stock to Aspire Capital or L2 Capital may cause substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and the sale of the shares of common stock acquired by Aspire Capital or L2 Capital could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. On June 8, 2016, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement with Aspire Capital (the \"Aspire CSPA\"), in which Aspire Capital committed to purchase, at our election, up to an aggregate of $15.0 million shares of our common stock over a period of approximately 30 months (i.e., 30 months from July 8, 2016, the effective date of the initial registration statement on Form S-1 that we filed to register the shares that we issued and may issue to Aspire pursuant to the Aspire CSPA). On November 24, 2017, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement with L2 Capital, LLC (the \"L2 Capital CSPA\"), a Kansas limited liability company (\"L2 Capital\"), relating to an offering of an aggregate of up to 12,100,000 shares of our common stock, of which 10,000,000 of such shares are being offered in an indirect primary offering consisting of an equity line of credit.. Through December 31, 2017, we have issued 6,000,000 shares of our common stock to Aspire Capital and under the Aspire CSPA and 5,100,000 shares of our common stock to L2 Capital under the L2 Capital CSPA for gross proceeds of approximately $5.1 million and $600,000, respectively. We may ultimately sell all, some or none of the approximately $9.9 million of common stock remaining under the Aspire CSPA to Aspire Capital and $9.4 million of common stock remaining under the L2 Capital CSPA, and Aspire Capital and L2 Capital may sell all, some or none of our shares that it holds or comes to hold under the Aspire CSPA and L2 Capital CSPA, respectively. Sales by Aspire Capital and L2 Capital of shares acquired pursuant to the Aspire CSPA and L2 Capital CSPA, respectively, may result in dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by Aspire Capital or L2 Capital, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. However, we have the right to control the timing and amount of sales of our shares to Aspire Capital and L2 Capital, and the Aspire Capital CSPA and L2 Capital CSPA may be terminated by us at any time at our discretion without any penalty or cost to us.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our company, or if they issue adverse or misleading opinions regarding us or our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not influence or control the reporting of these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade or provide a negative outlook on our company or our industry, or the stock of any of our competitors, the price of our common stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause the price of our common stock to decline.. You may be diluted by conversions of outstanding non-voting common stock and convertible notes and exercises of outstanding options and warrants.. As of December 31, 2017, we had (i) outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 3,444,663 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $1.87 per share, (ii) warrants to purchase an aggregate of 4,820,025 shares of our common stock at a weighted-average exercise price of $1.08 per share and (iii) outstanding convertible promissory notes in an aggregate principal amount of $13,800,627, which are convertible for up to 15,549,637 shares of our common stock.. The exercise of such options and warrants or conversion of the convertible promissory notes will result in further dilution of your investment. In addition, you may experience additional dilution if we issue common stock in the future. As a result of this dilution, you may receive significantly less in net tangible book value than the full purchase price you paid for the shares in the event of liquidation.. 72. Table of Contents. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market for our common stock.. Of the 105,325,373 voting and non-voting shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2017, approximately 59,862,017 shares are held by \"non-affiliates\" and are, or will become, freely tradable without restriction pursuant to Rule 144. In addition, in the second half of 2017 and first quarter of 2018, we filed with the SEC registration statements on Form S-3 for purposes of registering the resale of an aggregate of 65,117,092 shares of restricted common stock that were sold to certain Napo creditors and investors in connection with the Merger and related refinancing transactions, including (i) 1,489,741 shares of voting common stock, (ii) 22,917,268 shares of voting common stock issuable upon conversion of non-voting common stock, (iii) 1,224,875 shares of voting common stock issuable upon exercise of warrants with an exercise price of $0.08, (iv) 23,315,544 shares of voting common stock issuable upon conversion of Convertible Promissory Notes due December 30, 2019 (including interest accrued through maturity), (v) 8,510,294 shares of voting common stock issuable upon conversion of exchangeable promissory notes (including interest accrued through maturity), and (vi) 4,000,000 shares of voting common stock issuable upon conversion of Secured Convertible Promissory Notes due August 2, 2018. While sales of certain of these shares are subject to contractual resale restrictions, any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. If shares of our non-voting common stock are converted into shares of our voting common stock, your voting power will be diluted.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 62,707,480 shares of voting common stock and 42,617,893 shares of non-voting common stock outstanding. Generally, holders of our non-voting common stock have no voting power (other than in connection with a change of control of our company) and have no right to participate in any meeting of stockholders or to have notice thereof. However, shares of our non-voting common stock that are converted into voting common stock will have all the voting rights of the voting common stock. Shares of our non-voting common stock are convertible into shares of our voting common stock on a one-for-one basis (i) at the option of the respective holders thereof, at any time and from time to time on or after April 1, 2018 or (ii) automatically, without any payment of additional consideration by the holder thereof, (x) upon a transfer of such shares to any person or entity that is neither an affiliate of Nantucket nor an investment fund, investment vehicle or other account, that is, directly or indirectly, managed or advised by Nantucket or any of its affiliates pursuant to a sale of such stock to a third-party for cash in accordance with the terms and condition set forth in the Investor Rights Agreement, or (y) upon the subsequent release or transfer of such shares to the registered pre-Merger legacy stockholders of Napo's outstanding shares of common stock as of July 31, 2017 (the \"Napo Legacy Stockholders\"). Upon conversion of any non-voting common stock, your voting power will be diluted in proportion to the decrease in your ownership of the total outstanding voting common stock.. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable and may lead to entrenchment of management.. Our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions to include the following:. <U+0095> a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors;    <U+0095> no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;. 73. Table of Contents. <U+0095> the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors;    <U+0095> the ability of our board of directors to authorize the issuance of shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could adversely affect the rights of our common stockholders or be used to deter a possible acquisition of our company;     <U+0095> the ability of our board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval;    <U+0095> the required approval of the holders of at least 75% of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or repeal the provisions of our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors;    <U+0095> a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;    <U+0095> the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, the president or the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and     <U+0095> advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.. These provisions could inhibit or prevent possible transactions that some stockholders may consider attractive.. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions contained in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under Section 203, a corporation generally may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other exceptions, the board of directors has approved the transaction.. Our amended and restated bylaws designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees.. Our amended and restated bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, (iv) any action asserting a claim that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine or (v) any action to interpret, apply, enforce or determine the validity of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws. Any person purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in any shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to this provision of our amended and restated bylaws. This choice-of-forum provision may limit our stockholders' ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that they find favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits. Alternatively, if a court were to find this provision of our amended and restated bylaws inapplicable or unenforceable with respect to one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business and financial condition.. 74. Table of Contents. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the market price of our common stock.. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth and not to pay any cash dividends on our common stock. Moreover, so long as Nantucket or any of its affiliates owns any shares of our non-voting common stock, we cannot pay dividends on our common stock or non-voting common stock without obtaining the prior written consent of Nantucket. Because we do not intend to pay dividends and may be required to obtain written consent if we were to do so, your ability to receive a return on your investment will depend on any future appreciation in the market price of our common stock. We cannot be certain that our common stock will appreciate in price.. Our principal stockholders own a significant percentage of our voting stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval.. As of December 31, 2017, our executive officers, directors, holders of 5% or more of our capital stock and their respective affiliates beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 62% of the outstanding shares of our voting common stock. As a result of their stock ownership, these stockholders may have the ability to influence our management and policies, and will be able to significantly affect the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval such as elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents or approvals of any merger, sale of assets or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that you may feel are in your best interest as one of our stockholders.. The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner.. Our initial public offering had a significant, transformative effect on us. Prior to our initial public offering, our business operated as a privately-held company, and we were not required to comply with public reporting, corporate governance and financial accounting practices and policies required of a publicly-traded company. As a publicly-traded company, we incur significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses compared to historical levels. In addition, new and changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, as well as under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the JOBS Act and the rules and regulations of the SEC and The NASDAQ Capital Market, may result in an increase in our costs and the time that our board of directors and management must devote to our compliance with these rules and regulations. These rules and regulations have substantially increased our legal and financial compliance costs and diverted management time and attention from our product development and other business activities.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting annually and the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, requires us to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm potentially to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have needed to expend time and resources on documenting our internal control over financial reporting so that we are in a position to perform such evaluation when required. As an \"emerging growth company,\" we expect to avail ourselves of the exemption from the requirement that our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. However, we may no longer avail itself of this exemption when we cease to be an \"emerging growth company.\" When our independent registered public accounting firm is required to undertake an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, the cost of our compliance with Section 404 will correspondingly increase.. 75. Table of Contents. Our compliance with applicable provisions of Section 404 requires that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues as we implement additional corporate governance practices and comply with reporting requirements. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 applicable to us in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to \"emerging growth companies\" will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions and relief from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies.\" In particular, while we are an \"emerging growth company\" (i) we will not be required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (ii) we will be subject to reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and (iii) we will not be required to hold nonbinding advisory votes on executive compensation or stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can delay its adoption of any new or revised accounting standards, but we have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. In addition, investors may find our common stock less attractive if we rely on the exemptions and relief granted by the JOBS Act. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may decline and/or become more volatile.. We may remain an \"emerging growth company\" until as late as December 31, 2020 (the fiscal year-end following the fifth anniversary of the closing of our initial public offering, which occurred on May 18, 2015), although we may cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" earlier under certain circumstances, including (i) if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700.0 million as of any June 30, in which case we would cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" as of December 31 of such year, (ii) if our gross revenue exceeds $1.0 billion in any fiscal year or (iii) if we issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period."
