[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks, together with the cautionary statement under the caption \"Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" above and the other information included in this Annual Report. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business or materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our actual incurred losses may be greater than our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our financial condition and results of operations depend upon our ability to assess accurately the potential losses and loss adjustment expenses under the terms of the insurance policies or reinsurance contracts we underwrite. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent an estimate of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost us, and our ultimate liability may be greater or less than current reserves. These estimates are based on our assessment of facts and circumstances then known, as well as estimates of future trends in claim severity, claim frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. These variables are affected by both internal and external events that could increase our exposure to losses, including changes in actuarial projections, claims handling procedures, inflation, climate change, economic and judicial trends, and legislative changes. We continually monitor reserves using new information on reported claims and a variety of statistical techniques.. In the insurance and reinsurance industry, there is always the risk that reserves may prove inadequate, and actual results always differ from our reserve estimates. It is possible for insurance and reinsurance companies to underestimate the cost of claims. Our estimates could prove to be low, and this underestimation could have a material adverse effect on our financial strength.. Among the uncertainties we encounter in establishing our reserves for losses and related expenses in connection with our insurance businesses are:. • When we write \"occurrence\" policies in our Excess and Surplus Lines segment, we are obligated to pay covered claims, up to the contractually agreed amount, for any covered loss that occurs while the policy is in force. Losses can emerge many years after a policy has lapsed. Accordingly, our first notice of a claim or group of claims may arise many years after a policy has lapsed. Approximately 92.5% of our net casualty loss reserves in this segment are associated with \"occurrence form\" policies at December 31, 2017.. • Even when a claim is received (irrespective of whether the policy is a \"claims made\" or \"occurrence\" basis form), it may take considerable time to fully appreciate the extent of the covered loss suffered by the insured and, consequently, estimates of loss associated with specific claims can increase over time.. • New theories of liability are enforced retroactively from time to time by courts. See also \"The effect of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business is uncertain\" risk factor herein.. • Volatility in the financial markets, economic events and other external factors may result in an increase in the number of claims and the severity of the claims reported. In addition, elevated inflationary conditions could, among other things, cause loss costs to increase.. • If claims became more frequent, even if we had no liability for those claims, the cost of evaluating these potential claims could escalate beyond the amount of the reserves we have established. As we enter new lines of business, or as a result of new theories of claims, we may encounter an increase in claims frequency and greater claims handling costs than we had anticipated.. • We regularly enter new lines of insurance, and as a consequence, we sometimes have to make estimates of future losses for risk classes with which we do not have a great deal of experience. This lack of experience may contribute to making errors of judgment when establishing reserves.. In addition, reinsurance reserve estimates are typically subject to greater uncertainty than insurance reserve estimates, primarily due to reliance on the original underwriting decisions made by the ceding company. As a result, we are subject to the risk that our ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the risks reinsured by us and the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. Other factors resulting in additional uncertainty in establishing reinsurance reserves include:. 38. TABLE OF CONTENTS. • The increased lapse of time from the occurrence of an event to the reporting of the claim and the ultimate resolution or settlement of the claim.. • The diversity of development patterns among different types of reinsurance treaties.. • The necessary reliance on the ceding company for information regarding claims.. If any of our insurance or reinsurance reserves should prove to be inadequate for the reasons discussed above, or for any other reason, we will be required to increase reserves, resulting in a reduction in our net income and shareholders' equity in the period in which the deficiency is identified. Future loss experience substantially in excess of established reserves would also have a material adverse effect on future earnings and liquidity and financial rating, which would affect our ability to attract business and could affect our ability to retain or hire qualified personnel.. Our risk management is based on estimates and judgments that are subject to significant uncertainties.. Our approach to risk management relies on subjective variables that entail significant uncertainties. For example, we rely heavily on estimates of probable maximum losses for certain events that are generated by computer-run models. In addition, we rely on historical data and scenarios in managing credit and interest rate risks in our investment portfolio. These estimates, models, data and scenarios may not produce accurate predictions and consequently, we could incur losses both in the risks we underwrite and to the value of our investment portfolio.. Small changes in assumptions, which depend heavily on our judgment and foresight, can have a significant impact on the modeled outputs. Although we believe that these probabilistic measures provide a meaningful indicator of the relative risk of certain events and changes to our business over time, these measures do not predict our actual exposure to, nor guarantee our successful management of, future losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to retain key management and employees or recruit other qualified personnel, we may be materially adversely affected.. We believe that our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain our experienced management team and key employees. For instance, our specialty insurance operations require the services of a number of highly experienced employees, including underwriters, to source quality business and analyze and manage our risk exposure. There can be no assurance that we can attract and retain the necessary employees to conduct our business activities on a timely basis or at all. Our competitors may offer more favorable compensation arrangements to our key management or employees to incentivize them to leave our Company. Furthermore, our competitors may make it more difficult for us to hire their personnel by offering excessive compensation arrangements to certain employees to induce them not to leave their current employment and bringing litigation against employees who do leave (and possibly us as well) to join us. Although we have employment agreements with all of our executive officers, we do not have employment agreements with our senior underwriters or claims personnel. We do not have key person insurance on the lives of any of our key management personnel. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel and the loss of services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Adverse economic factors, including recession, inflation, periods of high unemployment or lower economic activity could result in the sale of fewer policies than expected or an increase in frequency or severity of claims and premium defaults or both, which, in turn, could affect our growth and profitability.. Factors, such as business revenue, economic conditions, the volatility and strength of the capital markets and inflation can all affect the business and economic environment. These same factors affect our. ability to generate revenue and profits. In an economic downturn that is characterized by higher unemployment, declining spending and reduced corporate revenues, the demand for insurance products is adversely affected, which directly affects our premium levels and profitability. Negative economic factors may also affect our ability to receive the appropriate rate for the risk we insure with our policyholders and may adversely affect the number of policies we can write, including with respect to our opportunities to underwrite profitable business. In an economic downturn, our customers may have less need for insurance coverage, cancel existing insurance policies, modify their coverage, self insure their risks, or not renew with us. Existing policyholders may exaggerate or even falsify claims to obtain higher claims payments. These outcomes would reduce our underwriting profit to the extent these factors are not reflected in the rates we charge.. We underwrite a significant portion of our insurance in (i) the Excess and Surplus Lines segment in California, Texas, Florida, New York, Illinois and New Jersey, (ii) the individual risk workers' compensation business of the Specialty Admitted Insurance segment in North Carolina, Virginia, South Carolina and Tennessee, and (iii) the fronting and program business of the Specialty Admitted Insurance segment in Texas, New York, New Mexico and Florida. Any economic downturn in any such state could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 39. TABLE OF CONTENTS. A decline in our financial strength rating may result in a reduction of new or renewal business.. Companies, insurers and reinsurance brokers use ratings from independent ratings agencies as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of reinsurers. A.M. Best has assigned a financial strength rating of \"A\" (Excellent),\" which is the third highest of 15 ratings that A.M. Best issues, to each of James River Insurance, James River Casualty, Falls Lake Fire and Casualty, Falls Lake National, Falls Lake General, Stonewood Insurance and JRG Re. A.M. Best assigns ratings that are intended to provide an independent opinion of an insurance or reinsurance company's ability to meet its obligations to policyholders and such ratings are not an evaluation directed to investors. A.M. Best periodically reviews our rating and may revise it downward or revoke it at its sole discretion based primarily on its analysis of our balance sheet strength (including capital adequacy and loss and loss adjustment expense reserve adequacy), operating performance and business profile. Factors that could affect such an analysis include but are not limited to:. • if we change our business practices from our organizational business plan in a manner that no longer supports our A.M. Best's rating;. • if unfavorable financial, regulatory or market trends affect us, including excess market capacity;. • if our losses exceed our loss reserves;. • if we have unresolved issues with government regulators;. • if we are unable to retain our senior management or other key personnel;. • if our investment portfolio incurs significant losses; or. • if A.M. Best alters its capital adequacy assessment methodology in a manner that would adversely affect our rating.. These and other factors could result in a downgrade of our rating. A downgrade of our rating could cause our current and future brokers and agents, retail brokers and insureds to choose other, more highly-rated competitors. A downgrade of this rating could also increase the cost or reduce the availability of reinsurance to us.. In addition, in view of the earnings and capital pressures recently experienced by many financial institutions, including insurance companies, it is possible that rating organizations will heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, will increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, will request additional information from the companies that they rate and may increase the capital and other requirements employed in the rating organizations' models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. It is possible that such reviews of us may result in adverse ratings consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A downgrade below \"A-\" or withdrawal of any rating could severely limit or prevent us from writing new and renewal insurance or reinsurance contracts. See also \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Ratings.\". We distribute products through a select group of brokers and agents, several of which account for a significant portion of our business, and there can be no assurance that such relationships will continue, or if they do continue, that the relationship will be on favorable terms to us. In addition, reliance on brokers and agents subjects us to their credit risk.. We distribute our products through a select group of brokers and agents. In 2017:. • the Excess and Surplus Lines segment conducted business with two brokers that produced an aggregate of $324.0 million in gross written premiums, or 61.2% of that segment's gross written premiums for the year;. • the Specialty Admitted Insurance segment conducted business with one agency that produced $183.0 million in gross written premiums, representing 57.8% of that segment's gross written premiums for the year; and. • the Casualty Reinsurance segment conducted business with four brokers that generated $182.6 million of gross written premiums, or 77.6% of that segment's gross written premiums for the year.. We cannot assure you that the relationship with any of these brokers will continue. Even if the relationships do continue, they may not be on terms that are profitable for us. The termination of a relationship with one or more significant brokers or agents could result in lower direct written premiums and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or business prospects.. There is a trend toward consolidation among brokers and agents who produce our business. As brokers and agents consolidate and competition among them declines, they may seek and receive higher commissions. Increases in commissions could reduce our underwriting profit.. 40. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Certain premiums from policyholders, where the business is produced by brokers or agents, are collected directly by the brokers or agents and forwarded to our insurance subsidiaries. In certain jurisdictions, when the insured pays its policy premium to brokers or agents for payment on behalf of our insurance subsidiaries, the premiums might be considered to have been paid under applicable insurance laws and regulations. Accordingly, the insured would no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums from that broker or agent. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers and agents. Where necessary, we review the financial condition of potential new brokers and agents before we agree to transact business with them. Although failures by brokers and agents to remit premiums have not been material to date, there may be instances where brokers and agents collect premiums but do not remit them to us and we may be required under applicable law to provide the coverage set forth in the policy despite the absence of premiums.. Because the possibility of these events depends in large part upon the financial condition and internal operations of our brokers and agents (which in most cases is not public information), we are not able to quantify the exposure presented by this risk. If we are unable to collect premiums from brokers and agents in the future, underwriting profits may decline and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We rely on a select group of customers for a significant portion of our business, and the loss of any of these customers, or a material reduction in business with any of these customers, would materially adversely affect our rate of growth, results of operations and financial condition.. Our three largest customers accounted for approximately $216.1 million (Rasier LLC), $183.0 million (Atlas General Insurance Services), and $120.3 million (State National Insurance Company) of our gross written premium in 2017, representing 20.0%, 16.9%, and 11.1% of our gross written premiums in 2017, respectively. No other insured generated 10.0% or more of consolidated gross written premiums for 2017. The loss of any of these customers, or a significant reduction in the amount of business that we conduct with such customers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The failure of any of the loss limitations or exclusions we employ, or changes in other claims or coverage issues, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Although we seek to mitigate our loss exposure through a variety of methods, the future is inherently unpredictable. It is difficult to predict the timing, frequency and severity of losses with statistical certainty. It is not possible to completely eliminate our exposure to unforecasted or unpredictable events and, to the extent that losses from such risks occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. For instance, various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, which have been negotiated to limit our risks, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend. At the present time, we employ a variety of endorsements to our policies that limit exposure to known risks.. In addition, we design our E&S Lines segment's policy terms to manage our exposure to expanding theories of legal liability like those which have given rise to claims for lead paint, asbestos, mold, construction defects and environmental matters. Many of the policies we issue also include conditions requiring the prompt reporting of claims to us and entitle us to decline coverage in the event of a violation of that condition. Also, many of our policies limit the period during which a policyholder may bring a claim under the policy, which in many cases is shorter than the statutory period under which such claims can be brought against our policyholders. While these exclusions and limitations help us assess and reduce our loss exposure and help eliminate known exposures to certain risks, it is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void an exclusion or legislation could be enacted modifying or barring the use of such endorsements and limitations. These types of governmental actions could result in higher than anticipated losses and loss adjustment expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance policies that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued.. We have exposure to losses arising from unpredictable natural disasters, terrorist acts, and other catastrophic events. Claims from these events could reduce our earnings and cause volatility in our results of operations.. We have exposure to losses arising from unpredictable natural disasters, terrorist acts, and other catastrophic events. Natural disasters, terrorist acts, and other catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of our property/casualty lines and generally result in an increase in the number of claims filed as well as the amount of compensation sought by claimants. For example, in 2017, the Company had net losses of $6.9 million from Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.. The incidence and severity of catastrophes and terrorist acts are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from catastrophes is a function of the frequency of loss events, the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by each event and the severity of the events. Claims from catastrophic events could exceed our amount of reinsurance purchased to protect us from such events, reduce our earnings and cash flows, cause volatility in our results of operations and cash flows for any fiscal period or materially impact our financial condition.. 41. TABLE OF CONTENTS. We may have exposure to losses from terrorism for which we are required by law to provide coverage regarding such losses.. U.S. insurers are required by state and federal law to offer coverage for terrorism in certain commercial lines, including workers' compensation. As discussed under \"Item 1. Business - Regulation - U.S. Insurance Regulation - Federal Regulation,\" the Terrorism Acts require commercial property and casualty insurance companies to offer coverage for acts of terrorism, whether foreign or domestic, and established a federal assistance program through the end of 2020 to help cover claims related to future terrorism-related losses. The impact of any terrorist act is unpredictable, and the ultimate impact on us would depend upon the nature, extent, location and timing of such an act.. The effect of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business is uncertain.. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may materially adversely. affect our business by either broadening coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued.. Three examples of unanticipated risks that affected the insurance industry are:. • Asbestos liability applied to manufacturers of products and contractors who installed those products;. • Apportionment of liability for settlement assigned to subcontractors who may have been involved in mundane tasks (such as installing sheetrock in a home); and. • Court decisions, such as the 1995 Montrose decision in California, that read policy exclusions narrowly so as to expand coverage, thereby requiring insurers to create and write new exclusions.. Our investment portfolio is subject to significant market and credit risks, which could result in a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.. Our results of operations depend, in part, on the performance of our investment portfolio. We seek to hold a diversified portfolio of investments that is managed by professional investment advisory management firms in accordance with our investment policy and periodically reviewed by our Investment Committee. However, our investments are subject to general economic conditions and market risks as well as risks inherent to particular securities.. Our primary market risk exposures are to changes in interest rates and equity prices. See Item 7A, \"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.\" In recent years, interest rates have been at or near historic lows. A protracted low interest rate environment would continue to place pressure on net investment income, particularly related to fixed income securities and short-term investments, which, in turn, may materially adversely affect our operating results. Future increases in interest rates could cause the values of our fixed income securities portfolios to decline, with the magnitude of the decline depending on the duration of our portfolio and the amount by which interest rates increase. Some fixed income securities have call or prepayment options, which represent possible reinvestment risk in declining rate environments. Other fixed income securities such as mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities carry prepayment risk or, in a rising interest rate environment, may not pre-pay as quickly as expected. In addition, individual securities in our fixed income securities portfolio are subject to credit risk and default. Downgrades in the credit ratings of fixed maturities can have a significant negative effect on the market valuation of such securities.. The severe downturn in the public debt and equity markets beginning in 2008 resulted in significant realized and unrealized losses in our investment portfolio. In the event of another financial crisis, we could incur substantial realized and unrealized investment losses in future periods, which would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, debt and financial strength ratings, insurance subsidiaries' capital liquidity and ability to access capital markets.. The value of our investment portfolio is subject to the risk that certain investments may default or become impaired due to deterioration in the financial condition of one or more issuers of the securities held, or due to deterioration in the financial condition of an insurer that guarantees an issuer's payments of such investments. Such defaults and impairments could reduce our net investment income and result in realized investment losses.. We hold investments in publicly-traded syndicated bank loans (16.5% of the carrying value of our invested assets as of December 31, 2017). Most of these loans are issued to sub-investment grade borrowers. While this class of investment has been profitable for us, a severe downturn in the markets could materially adversely affect the value of these investments, including the possibility that we would suffer substantial losses on this portfolio. As of December 31, 2017, the fair value of our investments in publicly traded syndicated bank loans was $236.5 million.. 42. TABLE OF CONTENTS. As of December 31, 2017, we held equity investments of $32.1 million in non-public limited liability companies that have invested in renewable energy investments. These investments were sponsored and are managed by an affiliate of one of our principal shareholders. We invested in the equity of these projects because we anticipate earning attractive risk-adjusted returns from these investments. However, our investments in these projects are illiquid and the ultimate results from these investments may be unknown for some time.. We also invest in marketable equity securities. These securities are carried on the balance sheet at fair market value and are subject to potential losses and declines in market value. Our invested assets also include interests in limited partnerships and privately held debt investments totaling $38.1 million at December 31, 2017. These investments were designed to provide diversification of risk and enhance the return on the overall portfolio. However, these investments entail substantial risks and are generally illiquid. Our investment portfolio is subject to increased valuation uncertainties when investment markets are illiquid. The valuation of investments is more subjective when markets are illiquid, thereby increasing the risk that the estimated fair value (i.e., the carrying amount) does not reflect prices at which actual transactions would occur.. Risks for all types of securities are managed through application of our investment policy, which establishes investment parameters that include (but are not limited to) maximum percentages of investment in certain types of securities and minimum levels of credit quality, which we believe are within guidelines established by the NAIC, BMA and various state insurance departments, as applicable.. Although we seek to preserve our capital, we cannot be certain that our investment objectives will be achieved, and results may vary substantially over time. In addition, although we seek to employ investment strategies that are not correlated with our insurance and reinsurance exposures, losses in our investment portfolio may occur at the same time as underwriting losses and, therefore, exacerbate the adverse effect of the losses on us.. We may become subject to additional government or market regulation which may have a material adverse impact on our business.. Market disruptions like those experienced during the credit-driven financial market collapse in 2008, as well as the dramatic increase in the capital allocated to alternative asset management during recent years, have led to increased governmental as well as self-regulatory scrutiny of the insurance industry in general. In addition, certain legislation proposing greater regulation of the industry is periodically considered by governing bodies of some jurisdictions as well as the U.S. federal government, and the credit-driven equity market collapse may increase the likelihood that some increased regulation of the industry is mandated.. Because we are a Bermuda company, we are subject to changes in Bermuda law and regulation that may have a material adverse impact on our operations, including through the imposition of tax liability or increased regulatory supervision. In addition, we will be exposed to any changes in the political environment in Bermuda.. Our business could be materially adversely affected by changes in state laws, including those relating to asset and reserve valuation requirements, surplus requirements, limitations on investments and dividends, enterprise risk and risk-based capital requirements and, at the federal level, by laws and regulations that may affect certain aspects of the insurance industry, including proposals for preemptive federal regulation. The U.S. federal government generally has not directly regulated the insurance industry except for certain areas of the market, such as insurance for flood, nuclear and terrorism risks. However, the U.S. federal government has undertaken initiatives or considered legislation in several areas that may affect the insurance industry, including tort reform, corporate governance and the taxation of reinsurance companies. The Dodd-Frank Act also established the Federal Insurance Office, which is authorized to study, monitor and report to Congress on the insurance industry and to recommend that the FSOC designate an insurer as an entity posing risks to U.S. financial stability in the event of the insurer's material financial distress or failure. In December 2013, the Federal Insurance Office issued a report on alternatives to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States, including increasing national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states. Any additional regulations established as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act or actions in response to the Federal Insurance Office Report could increase our costs of compliance or lead to disciplinary action. In addition, legislation has been introduced from time to time that, if enacted, could result in the U.S. federal government assuming a more direct role in the regulation of the insurance industry, including federal licensing in addition to or in lieu of state licensing and reinsurance for natural catastrophes. We are unable to predict whether any legislation will be enacted or any regulations will be adopted, or the effect that any such developments could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The Bermuda insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions. The BMA sought \"regulatory equivalency\" which enables Bermuda's commercial insurers to transact business with the European Union on a \"level playing field\". In connection with its initial efforts to achieve equivalency under Solvency II, the BMA implemented and imposed additional requirements on the companies it regulates, such as JRG Re. On November 26, 2015, via delegated act, the European Commission granted Bermuda's commercial insurers full equivalence in all areas of Solvency II for an indefinite period of time. The European Commission's act was reviewed and approved by the. 43. TABLE OF CONTENTS. European Parliament and Council. On March 4, 2016, the delegated act was published in the official journal of the European Union. The grant of full equivalence came into force on March 24, 2016 and applies from January 1, 2016.. It is impossible to predict what, if any, changes in the regulations applicable to us, the markets in which we operate, trade and invest or the counterparties with which we do business may be instituted in the future. Any such regulation could have a material adverse impact on our business.. We are subject to extensive regulation, which may materially adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. In addition, if we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including fines and suspensions, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our admitted insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation, primarily by California (the domiciliary state for Falls Lake Fire and Casualty Company), Ohio (the domiciliary state for James River Insurance, Falls Lake National and Falls Lake General), North Carolina (the domiciliary state for Stonewood Insurance), Virginia (the domiciliary state for James River Casualty), Bermuda (the domicile of JRG Re), and to a lesser degree, the other jurisdictions in the United States in which we operate. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of insurance policyholders, as opposed to the interests of shareholders. These regulations generally are administered by a department of insurance in each state and relate to, among other things, authorizations to write certain lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, reserve requirements, rate and form approvals, investment and underwriting limitations, affiliate transactions, dividend limitations, cancellation and non-renewal of policies, changes in control, solvency, receipt of reinsurance credit, accounting principles and a variety of other financial and non-financial aspects of our business. These laws and regulations are regularly re-examined and any changes in these laws and regulations or new laws or interpretations thereof may be more restrictive, could make it more expensive to conduct business or otherwise materially adversely affect our financial condition or operations. State insurance departments and the BMA also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and reinsurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. These regulatory requirements may impose timing and expense or other constraints that could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve some or all of our business objectives.. In addition, regulatory authorities have broad discretion to deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. For example, an insurer's registration may be cancelled by the BMA on certain grounds specified in the Insurance Act, including failure by the insurer to comply with its obligations under the Insurance Act, or if the BMA believes that the insurer has not been carrying on business in accordance with sound insurance principles. In some instances, where there is uncertainty as to applicability, we follow practices based on our interpretations of regulations or practices that we believe are generally followed by the industry. These practices may turn out to be different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. This could materially adversely affect our ability to operate our business.. The admitted market is subject to more state regulation than the E&S market, particularly with regard to rate and form filing requirements, restrictions on the ability to exit lines of business, premium tax payments and membership in various state associations, such as guaranty funds. Some states have deregulated their commercial insurance markets. We cannot predict the effect that further deregulation would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The NAIC has developed a system to test the adequacy of statutory capital of U.S.-based insurers, known as risk-based capital or \"RBC,\" that many states have adopted. This system establishes the minimum amount of risk-based capital necessary for an insurer to support its overall business operations. It identifies property casualty insurers that may be inadequately capitalized by looking at certain inherent risks of each insurer's assets and liabilities and its mix of net written premiums. Insurers falling below a calculated threshold may be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, including supervision, rehabilitation or liquidation. Failure to maintain adequate risk-based capital at the required levels could materially adversely affect the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to maintain regulatory authority to conduct their business. See \"Business - U.S. Insurance Regulation - State Regulation.\". In addition, the various state insurance regulators have increased their focus on risks within an insurer's holding company system that may pose enterprise risk to the insurer. In 2012, the NAIC adopted the NAIC Amendments. The NAIC Amendments, when adopted by the various states, are designed to respond to perceived gaps in the regulation of insurance holding company systems in the United States. One of the major changes is a requirement that an insurance holding company system's ultimate controlling person submit annually to its lead state insurance regulator an \"enterprise risk report\" that identifies activities, circumstances or events involving one or more affiliates of an insurer that, if not remedied properly, are likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of the insurer or its insurance holding company system as a whole. Other changes include (i) requiring a controlling person to submit prior notice to its domiciliary insurance regulator of a divestiture of control, (ii) having detailed minimum requirements for cost sharing and management agreements between an insurer and its affiliates and (iii) expanding the types of agreements between an insurer and its affiliates to be filed. 44. TABLE OF CONTENTS. with its domiciliary insurance regulator. The NAIC Amendments must be adopted by a state legislature and such state's insurance regulator in order to be effective in that state. Each of California, North Carolina, Ohio and Virginia, the states in which our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, include this enterprise risk report requirement.. In 2012, the NAIC also adopted the ORSA Model Act. The ORSA Model Act, when adopted by the various states, will require an insurance holding company system's Chief Risk Officer to submit annually to its lead state insurance regulator an ORSA. The ORSA is a confidential internal assessment appropriate to the nature, scale and complexity of an insurer of the material and relevant risks identified by the insurer associated with an insurer's current business plan and the sufficiency of capital resources to support those risks. The ORSA Model Act must be adopted by a state legislature in order to be effective in that state. Each of California, North Carolina, Ohio and Virginia, the states in which our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, adopted and require an ORSA filing.. We cannot predict with certainty the effect any enacted, proposed or future state or federal regulation or NAIC initiative may have on the conduct of our business. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the regulatory requirements applicable to our business will not become more stringent in the future or result in materially higher cost than current requirements. Changes in regulation of our business may materially reduce our profitability, limit our growth or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations.. We may be unable to obtain reinsurance coverage at reasonable prices or on terms that provide us adequate protection.. We purchase reinsurance in many of our lines of business to help manage our exposure to insurance and reinsurance risks that we underwrite and to reduce volatility in our results. In addition, JRG Re has managed its risk through retrocession arrangements with third-party reinsurers. A retrocession is a practice whereby a reinsurer cedes risk to one or more other reinsurers.. The availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity, each of which can affect our business volume and profitability. The availability of reasonably affordable reinsurance is a critical element of our business plan. One important way we utilize reinsurance is to reduce volatility in claims payments by limiting our exposure to losses from large risks. Another way we use reinsurance is to purchase substantial protection against concentrated losses when we enter new markets. As a result, our ability to manage volatility and avoid significant losses, expand into new markets or grow by offering insurance to new kinds of enterprises may be limited by the unavailability of reasonably priced reinsurance. We may not be able to obtain reinsurance on acceptable terms or from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness. In such event, if we are unwilling to accept the terms or credit risk of potential reinsurers, we would have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments, which would reduce our revenues.. Many reinsurance companies have begun to exclude certain coverages from, or alter terms in, the reinsurance contracts we enter into with them. Some exclusions relate to risks that we cannot in turn exclude from the policies we write due to business or regulatory constraints. In addition, reinsurers are imposing terms, such as lower per occurrence and aggregate limits, on direct insurers that do not wholly cover the risks written by these direct insurers. As a result, we, like other direct insurance companies, write insurance policies which to some extent do not have the benefit of reinsurance protection. These gaps in reinsurance protection expose us to greater risk and greater potential losses. For example, certain reinsurers have excluded coverage for terrorist acts or priced such coverage at unreasonably high rates. Many direct insurers, including us, have written policies without terrorist act exclusions and in many cases we cannot exclude terrorist acts because of regulatory constraints. We may, therefore, be exposed to potential losses as a result of terrorist acts. See also \"Business - Purchase of Reinsurance.\". We are subject to credit risk with regard to our reinsurance counterparties and insurance companies with which we have a fronting arrangement.. Although reinsurance makes the assuming reinsurer liable to us to the extent of the risk ceded, we are not relieved of our primary liability to our insureds as the direct insurer. At December 31, 2017, reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses from our three largest reinsurers was $150.4 million in the aggregate and represented 49.7% of the total balance. Additionally, prepaid reinsurance premiums ceded to three reinsurers at December 31, 2017 was $50.0 million in the aggregate, or 54.3% of the total balance. At December 31, 2017, all of our material reinsurance recoverable amounts are from companies with A.M. Best ratings of \"A-\" or better or are collateralized by the reinsurer, but we cannot be sure that our reinsurers will pay all reinsurance claims on a timely basis or at all. For example, reinsurers may default in their financial obligations to us as the result of insolvency, lack of liquidity, operational failure, fraud, asserted defenses based on agreement wordings or the principle of utmost good faith, asserted deficiencies in the documentation of agreements or for other reasons. The failure of a reinsurer to pay us does not lessen our contractual obligations to insureds. If a reinsurer fails to pay the expected portion of a claim or claims, our net losses might increase substantially and materially adversely affect our financial condition. Any disputes with reinsurers regarding coverage under reinsurance contracts could be time-consuming, costly and uncertain of success.. Downgrades to the credit ratings of our reinsurance counterparties may result in the reduction of rating agency capital credit provided by those reinsurance contracts and could, therefore, result in a downgrade of our own credit ratings. In addition,. 45. TABLE OF CONTENTS. under the reinsurance regulations, in many states where our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, certain reinsurers are required to collateralize their obligations to us and to the extent they do not do so, our ability for regulators to recognize this reinsurance will be impaired. We evaluate each reinsurance claim based on the facts of the case, historical experience with the reinsurer on similar claims and existing case law and include any amounts deemed uncollectible from the reinsurer in our reserve for uncollectible reinsurance. See also \"Business - Purchase of Reinsurance.\". Similarly, in our fronting business, which we conduct through our Specialty Admitted Insurance segment, we are primarily liable to the insureds because we have issued the policies. While we customarily require a collateral trust arrangement to secure the obligations of the insurance entity for which we are fronting, we do not obtain collateral in every instance and in situations where we do obtain collateral for the obligations of the other insurance entity, it is possible that the collateral could be insufficient to cover all claims, either as a result of a decline in the value of the collateral, an increase in the obligation being collateralized, or a failure of management to monitor the adequacy of the collateral held. In that event, we would be contractually entitled to recovery from the entity for which we are fronting, but it is possible that, for any of a variety of reasons, the other party could default in its obligations. See also \"Business  -  Business Segments - Specialty Admitted Insurance Segment - Fronting Business.\". We, or agents we have appointed, may act based on inaccurate or incomplete information regarding the accounts we underwrite, or such agents may exceed their authority or commit fraud when binding policies on our behalf.. We, and our MGAs and other agents who have the ability to bind our policies, rely on information provided by insureds or their representatives when underwriting insurance policies. While we may make inquiries to validate or supplement the information provided, we may make underwriting decisions based on incorrect or incomplete information. It is possible that we will misunderstand the nature or extent of the activities or facilities and the corresponding extent of the risks that we insure because of our reliance on inadequate or inaccurate information.. In addition, in the Specialty Admitted Insurance segment, MGAs and other agents have the authority to bind policies on our behalf. If any such agents exceed their authority or engage in fraudulent activities, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We rely on our systems and employees, and those of certain third-party vendors and service providers in conducting our operations, and certain failures, including internal or external fraud, operational errors, systems malfunctions, or cyber-security incidents, could materially adversely affect our operations.. We are exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and recordkeeping errors and computer or telecommunications systems malfunctions. Our business depends on our ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. If any of our operational, accounting, or other data processing systems fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. Similarly, we depend on our employees and could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our employees causes a significant operational breakdown or failure, either as a result of human error, intentional sabotage or fraudulent manipulation of our operations or systems.. Third parties with whom we do business, including vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns, failures, or capacity constraints of their own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could diminish our ability to operate our business, or cause financial loss, potential liability to insureds, inability to secure insurance, reputational damage or regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect us.. We rely on our multiple proprietary operating systems as well as operating systems of third-party providers to issue policies, pay claims, run modeling functions and complete various internal processes. We may be subject to disruptions of such operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, electrical or telecommunications outages, natural or man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or tornados, or events arising from criminal or terrorist acts. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to insureds and loss or liability to us. In addition, there is the risk that our controls and procedures as well as our business continuity, disaster recovery and data security systems prove to be inadequate. The computer systems and network systems we and others use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. These problems may arise in both our internally developed systems and the systems of third-party service providers. In addition, our computer systems and network infrastructure present security risks and could be susceptible to hacking, computer viruses, data breaches, or ransomware attacks. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. Although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be materially adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems and those of third-party service providers that support our business.. 46. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. Our technologies, systems and networks may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our insureds' or reinsured's confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our insureds', reinsured's or other third parties' business operations, which in turn may result in legal claims, regulatory scrutiny and liability, reputational damage, the incurrence of costs to eliminate or mitigate further exposure and the loss of customers. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats and the outsourcing of some of our business operations. As a result, cyber-security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority. As cyber-threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our business and customers, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively.. We intend to grow our business in the future, which could require additional capital, systems development and skilled personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet our capital needs, expand and maintain our systems and our internal controls effectively, allocate our human resources optimally, identify and hire qualified employees or incorporate effectively the components of any businesses we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth. The failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to underwrite risks accurately and charge competitive yet profitable rates to our policyholders, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected.. In general, the premiums for our insurance policies are established at the time a policy is issued and, therefore, before all of our underlying costs are known. Like other insurance companies, we rely on estimates and assumptions in setting our premium rates. Establishing adequate premium rates is necessary, together with investment income, to generate sufficient revenue to offset losses, loss adjustment expenses and other underwriting costs and to earn a profit. If we do not accurately assess the risks that we assume, we may not charge adequate premiums to cover our losses and expenses, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations and our profitability. Alternatively, we could set our premiums too high, which could reduce our competitiveness and lead to lower revenues.. Pricing involves the acquisition and analysis of historical loss data and the projection of future trends, loss costs and expenses, and inflation trends, among other factors, for each of our products in multiple risk tiers and many different markets. In order to accurately price our policies, we:. • collect and properly analyze a substantial volume of data from our insureds;. • develop, test and apply appropriate actuarial projections and rating formulas;. • closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends; and. • project both frequency and severity of our insureds' losses with reasonable accuracy.. We seek to implement our pricing accurately in accordance with our assumptions. Our ability to undertake these efforts successfully and, as a result, accurately price our policies, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:. • insufficient or unreliable data;. • incorrect or incomplete analysis of available data;. • uncertainties generally inherent in estimates and assumptions;. • our failure to implement appropriate actuarial projections and rating formulas or other pricing methodologies;. • regulatory constraints on rate increases;. 47. TABLE OF CONTENTS. • our failure to accurately estimate investment yields and the duration of our liability for loss and loss adjustment expenses; and. • unanticipated court decisions, legislation or regulatory action.. The insurance and reinsurance business is historically cyclical, and we may experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates, which could materially adversely affect our business.. Historically, insurers and reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency and severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, adverse trends in litigation, regulatory constraints, general economic conditions and other factors. We have experienced these types of fluctuations during our Company's short history. The supply of insurance and reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of capital available to the industry that, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance and reinsurance industry. As a result, the insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity increased premium levels. Demand for insurance and reinsurance depends on numerous factors, including the frequency and severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, the introduction of new capital providers, general economic conditions and underwriting results of primary insurers. All of these factors fluctuate and may contribute to price declines generally in the insurance and reinsurance industry.. We cannot predict with certainty whether market conditions will improve, remain constant or deteriorate. Negative market conditions may impair our ability to underwrite insurance and reinsurance at rates we consider appropriate and commensurate relative to the risk assumed. If we cannot underwrite insurance or reinsurance at appropriate rates, our ability to transact business will be materially adversely affected. Any of these factors could lead to a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our reinsurance business is subject to loss settlements made by ceding companies and fronting carriers, which could materially adversely affect our performance.. Where JRG Re enters into assumed reinsurance contracts with third parties, all loss settlements made by the ceding company will be unconditionally binding upon us, provided they are within the terms of the underlying policies and within the terms of the relevant contract. While we believe the ceding companies will settle such claims in good faith, we are bound to accept the claims settlements agreed to by the ceding companies. Under the underlying policies, each ceding company typically bears the burden of proving that a contractual exclusion applies to a loss, and there may be circumstances where the facts of a loss are insufficient to support the application of an exclusion. In such circumstances, we assume such losses under the reinsured policies, which could materially adversely affect our performance.. Our operating results have in the past varied from quarter to quarter and may not be indicative of our long-term prospects.. Our operating results are subject to fluctuation and have historically varied from quarter to quarter. We expect our quarterly results to continue to fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors, including the general economic conditions in the markets where we operate, the frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic or other insured events, fluctuating interest rates, claims exceeding our loss reserves, competition in our industry, deviations from expected renewal rates of our existing policies and contracts, adverse investment performance and the cost of reinsurance and retrocessional coverage.. In particular, we seek to underwrite products and make investments to achieve favorable returns on tangible equity over the long term. In addition, our opportunistic nature and focus on long-term growth in tangible equity may result in fluctuations in total premiums written from period to period as we concentrate on underwriting contracts that we believe will generate better long-term, rather than short-term, results. Accordingly, our short-term results of operations may not be indicative of our long-term prospects.. We could be forced to sell investments to meet our liquidity requirements.. We invest the premiums we receive from our insureds and ceding companies until they are needed to pay policyholder claims or until they are recognized as profits. Consequently, we seek to manage the duration of our investment portfolio based on the duration of our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves to ensure sufficient liquidity and avoid having to liquidate securities to fund claims. Risks such as inadequate loss and loss adjustment reserves or unfavorable trends in litigation could potentially result in the need to sell investments to fund these liabilities. Such sales could result in significant realized losses depending on the conditions of the general market, interest rates and credit issues with individual securities.. Our associates could take excessive risks, which could negatively affect our financial condition and business.. As an insurance enterprise, we are in the business of binding certain risks. The associates who conduct our business, including executive officers and other members of management, underwriters, sales managers, investment professionals, product managers, sales agents, and other associates, as well as MGAs, do so in part by making decisions and choices that. 48. TABLE OF CONTENTS. involve exposing us to risk. These include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines and standards, product design and pricing, determining which business opportunities to pursue and other decisions. We endeavor, in the design and implementation of our compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks. Associates may, however, take such risks regardless of the structure of our compensation programs and practices. Similarly, although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates' business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks, these controls and procedures may not be effective. If our associates take excessive risks, the impact of those risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business operations.. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or available only on unfavorable terms.. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new and renewal business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. Our ability to underwrite depends largely upon the expected quality of our claims paying process and our perceived financial strength as estimated by potential insureds, brokers, other intermediaries and independent rating agencies. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to fund our future operating requirements, cover claim losses, or satisfy ratings agencies in order to maintain a satisfactory rating, we may need to raise additional capital in the future through offerings of debt or equity securities or otherwise to:. • fund liquidity needs caused by underwriting or investment losses;. • replace capital lost in the event of significant reinsurance losses or adverse reserve developments;. • satisfy letters of credit or guarantee bond requirements that may be imposed by our clients or by regulators;. • meet rating agency or regulatory capital requirements; or. • respond to competitive pressures.. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are unfavorable to us. Further, any additional capital raised through the sale of equity could dilute your ownership interest in the Company and would likely cause the value of our shares to decline. Additional capital raised through the issuance of debt would most likely result in creditors having rights, preferences and privileges senior or otherwise superior to those of the holders of our shares and may limit our flexibility in operating our business and make it more difficult to obtain capital in the future. Disruptions, uncertainty, or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. If we are not able to obtain adequate capital, or obtain it on favorable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. If we are unable to keep pace with the technological advancements in the insurance industry, our ability to compete effectively could be impaired.. We are committed to developing and maintaining information technology systems that will allow our insurance subsidiaries to compete effectively. There can be no assurance that the development of current technology for future use will not result in our being competitively disadvantaged, especially with those carriers that have greater resources. If we are unable to keep pace with the advancements being made in technology, our ability to compete with other insurance companies who have advanced technological capabilities will be negatively affected. Further, if we are unable to effectively execute and update or replace our key legacy technology systems as they become obsolete or as emerging technology renders them competitively inefficient, our competitive position and our cost structure could be adversely affected.. We operate in a highly competitive environment and we may not continue to be able to compete effectively against larger or more well-established business rivals.. We face competition from other specialty insurance companies, standard insurance companies and underwriting agencies, as well as from diversified financial services companies that are larger than we are and that have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Some of these competitors also have longer experience and more market recognition than we do in certain lines of business. In addition, it may be difficult or prohibitively expensive for us to implement technology systems and processes that are competitive with the systems and processes of these larger companies.. In particular, competition in the insurance and reinsurance industry is based on many factors, including price of coverage, the general reputation and perceived financial strength of the company, relationships with brokers, terms and conditions of products offered, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, speed of claims payment and reputation, and the experience and reputation of the members of our underwriting team in the particular lines of insurance and reinsurance we seek to underwrite. See \"Business - Competition.\". A number of new, proposed or potential legislative or industry developments could further increase competition in our industry. These developments include:. 49. TABLE OF CONTENTS. • An increase in capital-raising by companies in our lines of business, which could result in new entrants to our markets and an excess of capital in the industry;. • The deregulation of commercial insurance lines in certain states and the possibility of federal regulatory reform of the insurance industry, which could increase competition from standard carriers for our E&S lines of insurance business; and. • Changing practices facilitated by the Internet may lead to greater competition in the insurance business. Among the possible changes are shifts in the way in which commercial insurance is purchased, which could affect both admitted and excess and surplus lines.. We currently depend largely on the wholesale distribution model for our Excess and Surplus Lines segment's premiums. If the wholesale distribution model were to be significantly altered by changes in the way E&S lines risks were marketed, including, without limitation, through use of the Internet, it could have a material adverse effect on our premiums, underwriting results and profits.. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in the insurance or reinsurance markets. Increased competition in these markets could result in a change in the supply and/or demand for insurance or reinsurance, affect our ability to price our products at risk-adequate rates, affect our ability to retain business with existing customers, or underwrite new business on favorable terms. If this increased competition so limits our ability to transact business, our operating results could be materially adversely affected.. If actual renewals of our existing contracts do not meet expectations, our premiums written in future years and our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Most of our contracts are written for a one-year term. In our financial forecasting process, we make assumptions about the renewal of our prior year's contracts. The insurance and reinsurance industries have historically been cyclical businesses with intense competition, often based on price. If actual renewals do not meet expectations or if we choose not to write a renewal because of pricing conditions, our premiums written in future years and our future operations would be materially adversely affected.. We may change our underwriting guidelines or our strategy without shareholder approval.. Our management has the authority to change our underwriting guidelines or our strategy without notice to our shareholders and without shareholder approval. As a result, we may make fundamental changes to our operations without shareholder approval, which could result in our pursuing a strategy or implementing underwriting guidelines that may be materially different from the strategy or underwriting guidelines described in the section titled \"Business\" or elsewhere in this Annual Report.. Litigation and legal proceedings against our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations.. As an insurance and reinsurance holding company, our subsidiaries are named as defendants in various legal actions in the ordinary course of business. We believe that the outcome of presently pending matters, individually and in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position. However, the outcomes of lawsuits cannot be predicted and, if determined adversely, could require us to pay significant damage amounts or to change aspects of our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.. Changes in accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially affect our reported financial results.. Developments in accounting practices may require us to incur considerable additional expenses to comply, particularly if we are required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparative purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted but may affect the calculation of net income, shareholders' equity and other relevant financial statement line items.. Further, our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are required to comply with statutory accounting principles (\"SAP\"). SAP and various components of SAP (such as actuarial reserving methodology) are subject to constant review by the NAIC and its task forces and committees, as well as state insurance departments, in an effort to address emerging issues and otherwise improve financial reporting. Various proposals are pending before committees and task forces of the NAIC, some of which, if enacted, could have negative effects on insurance industry participants. The NAIC continuously examines existing laws and regulations in the United States. We cannot predict whether or in what form such reforms will be enacted and, if so, whether the enacted reforms will positively or negatively affect us.. In addition, the NAIC Accounting Practices and Procedures manual provides that state insurance departments may permit insurance companies domiciled in their jurisdiction to depart from SAP by granting them permitted accounting practices. We. 50. TABLE OF CONTENTS. cannot predict whether or when the insurance departments of the states of domicile of our competitors may permit them to utilize advantageous accounting practices that depart from SAP, the use of which may not be permitted by the insurance departments of the states of domicile of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries. Further, we cannot assure that future changes to SAP or components of SAP or the grant of permitted accounting practices to our competitors will not have a negative impact on us.. Our ability to implement our business strategy could be delayed or adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions relating to the ability to obtain and retain work permits for key employees in Bermuda.. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians and holders of  permanent residents' certificates) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without a valid government work permit. A work permit may be granted or renewed upon showing that, after proper public advertisement, no Bermudian,  spouse of a Bermudian or a holder of a permanent resident's certificate who meets the minimum standards reasonably required by the employer has applied for the job. A work permit is issued with an expiry date (up to five years) and no assurances can be given that any work permit will be issued or, if issued, renewed upon the expiration of the relevant term. If work permits are not obtained or are not renewed for our key employees, we would lose their services, which could materially affect our business.. If California, North Carolina, Ohio, or Virginia significantly increase the assessments our insurance companies are required to pay, our financial condition and results of operations will suffer.. Our insurance companies are subject to assessments in California (the domiciliary state for Falls Lake Fire and Casualty Company), North Carolina (the domiciliary state for Stonewood Insurance), Ohio (the domiciliary state for James River Insurance, Falls Lake National and Falls Lake General) and Virginia (the domiciliary state for James River Casualty), for various purposes, including the provision of funds necessary to fund the operations of the various insurance departments and the state funds that pay covered claims under certain policies written by impaired, insolvent or failed insurance companies. These assessments are generally set based on an insurer's percentage of the total premiums written in the insurer's state within a particular line of business. As our U.S.-based insurance subsidiaries grow, our share of any assessments may increase. We cannot predict with certainty the amount of future assessments because they depend on factors outside our control, such as insolvencies of other insurance companies. Significant assessments could result in higher than expected operating expenses and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.. Our use of third-party claims administrators in certain lines of business may result in higher losses and loss adjustment expenses.. Historically, our Excess and Surplus Lines and Specialty Admitted Insurance segments handled all claims using employed staff. As we have entered new lines of business, we now use third-party claims administrators and contract employees to administer claims subject to the supervision of our employed staff. It is possible that these contract employees and third-party claims administrators may achieve less desirable results on claims than has historically been the case for our internal staff, which could result in significantly higher losses and loss adjustment expenses in those lines of business.. Risks Related to Taxation. The recently passed Tax Act may have a significant impact on the Company.. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law Public Law No. 115-97, informally titled the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"), which introduced significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). The Tax Act contains provisions that reduce the U.S. corporate tax rate, impose a base erosion and anti-abuse tax (\"BEAT\") on income of a U.S. corporation determined without regard to certain otherwise deductible payments made to certain foreign affiliates (including premium or other consideration paid or accrued to a related foreign reinsurance company for reinsurance), and accelerates taxable income with respect to certain controlled foreign corporations. These provisions could materially affect us or our shareholders. The Tax Act also includes provisions that could materially affect our shareholders as a result of provisions that broaden the definition of United States shareholder for purposes of the controlled foreign corporation rules and make it more difficult for a foreign insurance company to not be treated as a passive foreign investment company.. Further, the Tax Act imposes a one-time inclusion in gross income of cumulative earnings and profits from certain non-U.S. subsidiaries. A U.S. 10% Shareholder (as defined below) may be required to include its pro rata share of any \"accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income\" in taxable income with respect to the taxable year ending on or after December 31, 2017. Accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income generally means, subject to certain exclusions, the previously untaxed post-1986 accumulated earnings and profits (determined on a net basis) of such foreign corporations, determined as of November 2, 2017 or December 31, 2017, whichever is higher. Dividends to U.S. 10% Shareholders (as defined below) will not be taxable to the extent of any previously undistributed accumulated post-1986 deferred foreign income.. The Tax Act will be fully effective in the 2018 fiscal year. While we are continuing to study the consequences of the Tax Act, its ultimate impact may differ from the Company's description below due to changes in interpretations, as well as additional regulatory guidance that may be issued. Although this discussion takes into account provisions enacted under the Tax. 51. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Act, given the complexity of this new law you are strongly encouraged to consult your own tax advisor regarding its potential impact on the U.S. federal income tax consequences to you in light of your particular circumstances.. Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax.   The Tax Act's BEAT provision imposes a minimum tax on \"applicable taxpayers,\" which are generally corporations that are part of a group with at least $500 million of applicable annual gross receipts and that make certain payments to related foreign persons, including payments that are deductible for U.S. tax purposes, payments to purchase depreciable or amortizable property, and reinsurance payments. BEAT subjects the \"modified taxable income\" of an applicable taxpayer to tax at a rate of 5% in 2018, 10% in 2019-2025, and 12.5% in 2026 and thereafter. In general, modified taxable income is calculated by adding back to a taxpayer's regular taxable income the amount of certain \"base erosion tax benefits\" with respect to certain payments to foreign affiliates, as well as the \"base erosion percentage\" of any net operating loss deductions. BEAT applies only to the extent it exceeds a taxpayer's regular corporate income tax liability (determined without regard to certain tax credits).. We plan to make changes to the Company's structure in 2018 to minimize the impact of BEAT that include the formation of Carolina Re, a Bermuda-domiciled, wholly owned subsidiary of James River Group, Inc. We expect Carolina Re to be a Class 3A reinsurer and make an irrevocable election to be taxed as a U.S. domestic corporation under Section 953(d) of the Code. Effective January 1, 2018, we will discontinue ceding 70% of our U.S.-written premiums to JRG Re and will instead cede 70% of our U.S.-written premiums to Carolina Re. We also expect Carolina Re will enter into a stop loss reinsurance agreement with JRG Re. While Carolina Re will be subject to U.S. corporate income tax, we do not expect that it will be subject to BEAT in fiscal year 2018 as the Company is expected to have sufficient regular U.S. income tax liability compared to the BEAT liability.. There is significant uncertainty regarding the application of BEAT to affiliate reinsurance arrangements. Although we may be able to take proactive steps to reduce the impact of BEAT, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so.  An adverse interpretation of BEAT could cause a significant increase in our effective tax rate.. U.S. persons who own our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation on our undistributed earnings and may recognize ordinary income upon disposition of shares.. If we are considered a passive foreign investment company as defined in Section 1297(a) of the Code (\"PFIC\") for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. person who owns any of our shares could be subject to adverse tax consequences, including becoming subject to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and to tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed, in which case your investment could be materially adversely affected. We believe that we are not and have not been, and currently do not expect to become, a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our belief that we are not and have not been a PFIC is based, in part, on the fact that the PFIC rules include provisions intended to provide an exception for qualifying insurance companies (\"QIC\") actively engaged in the conduct of an insurance business. Generally, a QIC is a company (i) that would be subject to tax under special provisions related to insurance companies if the company was a U.S. entity, and (ii) the applicable insurance liabilities of which constitute more than 25% of its total assets as reported on the company's applicable financial statement. We believe that we are a QIC, however the scope of this exception is not entirely clear, especially in its application to holding companies indirectly engaged in an insurance business, and there are no administrative pronouncements, judicial decisions or current regulations that provide guidance as to the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. As a result, we cannot assure you that we, or one of our subsidiaries, will not be deemed a PFIC by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\"). If we, or one of our subsidiaries, were considered a PFIC, it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation.. A non-U.S. corporation generally will be classified as a controlled foreign corporation (\"CFC\") if U.S. persons, each of whom owns, directly, indirectly, or constructively, at least 10% of the voting power or value of such corporation's stock (\"U.S. 10% Shareholders\"), own in the aggregate more than 50% of the voting power or value of the stock of such corporation. Under these rules, if a foreign corporation is a CFC, each U.S. 10% Shareholder who owns shares of the CFC on the last day of the CFC's taxable year must annually include in its taxable income its pro rata share of the CFC's \"subpart F income,\" even if no distributions are made. Subpart F income typically includes \"foreign personal holding company income\" (such as interest, dividends and other types of passive income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income). In general (subject to the special rules applicable to \"related person insurance income\" described below), for purposes of taking into account insurance income, a foreign insurance company will be treated as a CFC if U.S. 10% Shareholders collectively own more than 25% of the voting power or value of the company's shares at any point during any year. Some of our existing shareholders may be U.S. 10% Shareholders, and depending on aggregate share ownership of all U.S. 10% Shareholders, we may be a CFC and JRG Re may be a CFC with respect to taking into account insurance income as subpart F income. We cannot assure you that these rules will not apply to you. If you are a U.S. person, we strongly urge you to consult your own tax advisor concerning the CFC rules.. 52. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Related Person Insurance Income.   If (i) our gross income attributable to insurance or reinsurance policies pursuant to which the direct or indirect insureds are our direct or indirect U.S. shareholders or persons related to such U.S. shareholders equals or exceeds 20% of our gross insurance income in any taxable year; and (ii) direct or indirect insureds and persons related to such insureds own directly or indirectly 20% or more of the voting power or value of our shares (together, the \"RPII Test\"), a U.S. person who owns any of our shares directly or indirectly on the last day of such taxable year would most likely be required to include its allocable share of our related person insurance income for such taxable year in its income, even if no distributions are made. We do not believe that the 20% gross insurance income threshold has been, or will be, met. However, we cannot assure you that this will continue to be the case. Consequently, we cannot assure you that a person who is a direct or indirect U.S. shareholder will not be required to include amounts in its income in respect of related person insurance income in any taxable year.. Dispositions of Our Shares.   If a U.S. shareholder is treated as disposing of shares in a CFC of which it is a U.S. 10% Shareholder, or of shares in a foreign insurance corporation that has related person insurance income and in which U.S. persons collectively own 25% or more of the voting power or value of the company's shares, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the U.S. shareholder's portion of the corporation's undistributed earnings and profits, as the case may be, that were accumulated during the period that the U.S. shareholder owned the shares. In addition, the shareholder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the direct or indirect U.S. shareholder.. The Company, JRG Re and James River Group Holdings UK Limited may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation.. The Company, Carolina Re and JRG Re are each incorporated under the laws of Bermuda. James River Group Holdings UK Limited (\"James River UK\") is incorporated under the laws of England and Wales. Carolina Re expects to make an irrevocable election to be taxed as a U.S. domestic corporation under Section 953(d) of the Code. In general, a corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country or U.S. possession is subject to U.S. federal income tax on its net income only if it is considered as engaged in a U.S. trade or business. We believe that the activities of each of the Company's non-U.S. holding companies and JRG Re, as contemplated, will not cause them to be treated as engaging in a U.S. trade or business and as such, will not be subject to current U.S. federal income taxation on their net income. However, there are no definitive standards provided by the Code, regulations or court decisions as to the specific activities that constitute being engaged in the conduct of a trade or business within the United States, and any such determination is essentially factual in nature and must be made annually. The IRS could successfully assert that our non-U.S. holding companies or JRG Re (or both) are engaged in a trade or business in the United States or, under the applicable income tax treaty, are engaged in a trade or business in the United States through a permanent establishment, and thus are subject to current U.S. federal income taxation. If our non-U.S. holding companies or JRG Re were deemed to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States (or, under the applicable income tax treaty, were deemed to be so engaged through a permanent establishment), our non-U.S. holding companies or JRG Re, as applicable, would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on income \"effectively connected\" (or treated as effectively connected) with the U.S. trade or business and would become subject to the \"branch profits\" tax on earnings and profits that are both effectively connected with the U.S. trade or business and deemed repatriated out of the United States. Any such federal tax liability could materially adversely affect our results of operations.. U.S. tax-exempt organizations who own our shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income.. A U.S. tax-exempt organization may recognize unrelated business taxable income if a portion of our subpart F insurance income is allocated to it. In general, subpart F insurance income will be allocated to a tax-exempt organization owning (or treated as owning) our shares if we are a CFC as discussed above and it is a U.S. 10% Shareholder or we earn related person insurance income and we satisfy the RPII Test. We cannot assure you that U.S. persons holding our shares (directly or indirectly) will not be allocated subpart F insurance income. U.S. tax-exempt organizations should consult their own tax advisors regarding the risk of recognizing unrelated business taxable income as a result of their ownership of our shares.. We may become subject to U.S. withholding and information reporting requirements under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (\"FATCA\") provisions.. The FATCA provisions of the Code generally impose a 30% withholding tax regime with respect to (i) certain U.S. source income (including interest and dividends) and gross proceeds from any sale or other disposition (after December 31, 2018) of property that can produce U.S. source interest or dividends (\"withholdable payments\") and (ii) \"passthru payments\" (generally, withholdable payments and payments that are attributable to withholdable payments) made by foreign financial institutions (\"FFIs\"). As a general matter, FATCA was designed to require U.S. persons' direct and indirect ownership of certain non-U.S. accounts and non-U.S. entities to be reported to the IRS. The application of the FATCA withholding rules were phased in beginning July 1, 2014, with withholding on foreign passthru payments made by FFIs taking effect after the later of January 1, 2019 or the date of publication of final regulations defining the term foreign passthru payment.. 53. TABLE OF CONTENTS. The United States has entered into intergovernmental agreements between the United States and Bermuda and between the United States and the United Kingdom (the \"IGAs\"), which potentially modify the FATCA withholding regime described above with respect to us and our common shares. There can be no certainty as to whether we, Carolina Re or JRG Re will be treated as a FFI under FATCA. We strongly urge you to consult your own tax advisor regarding the potential impact of FATCA, the IGAs and any non-U.S. legislation implementing FATCA.. Changes in U.S. tax laws may be retroactive and could subject us and/or U.S. persons who own our shares to U.S. income taxation.. Apart from enactment of the Tax Act, other legislative proposals or administrative or judicial developments could also result in an increase in the amount of U.S. tax payable by us or by an owner of our shares or reduce the attractiveness of our products. Any such developments could materially adversely affect our results of operations.. The tax laws and interpretations thereof, including with respect to whether a company is engaged in a U.S. trade or business, is a CFC, has related party insurance income, is a PFIC, or is subject to BEAT, are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently only proposed regulations regarding the RPII Test and the application of the PFIC rules to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming from the IRS or the U.S. Department of Treasury. We are not able to predict if, when or in what form such guidance will be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect.. If reinsurance premiums paid by our U.S. subsidiaries to Carolina Re or JRG Re do not reflect arm's-length terms, the IRS could seek to recharacterize the payments in a way that is unfavorable to us.. The IRS is permitted to reallocate or recharacterize income, deductions or certain other items, and to make any other adjustment, to reflect the proper amount, source or character of the taxable income in respect of payments among related parties to reflect an arm's-length transaction. We have in place intercompany loans from our U.S. subsidiaries to our parent company and have intercompany reinsurance agreements among consolidated entities. We believe the terms of these transactions are appropriate and reflect arm's-length terms and are consistent with all applicable rules and regulations. It is possible, however, that the U.S. Department of Treasury or the IRS may review our intercompany agreements and successfully assert, under Sections 482 or 845 of the Code, that they are not on an arm's-length basis and that as a result, we owe taxes on account of past or future periods.. Reduced tax rates for qualified dividend income may not be available in the future.. We believe that the dividends paid on our common shares should qualify as \"qualified dividend income\" as long as the common shares are listed on a national securities exchange. Qualified dividend income received by non-corporate U.S. persons is generally eligible for long-term capital gain rates. While the Tax Act did not modify these rules, there has been proposed legislation before the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives that would exclude shareholders of certain foreign corporations from this advantageous tax treatment. If such legislation were to become law, non-corporate U.S. persons would no longer qualify for the reduced tax rate on the dividends paid by us.. Our non-U.K. companies may be subject to U.K. tax that may have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. We intend to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies other than our intermediate holding company incorporated in the United Kingdom should be resident in the U.K. for tax purposes or have a permanent establishment in the U.K. Accordingly, we expect that none of our companies other than James River UK should be subject to U.K. taxation. However, since applicable law and regulations do not conclusively define the activities that constitute conducting business in the U.K. through a permanent establishment, the U.K. HM Revenue & Customs might contend successfully that one or more of our other companies is conducting business in the U.K. through a permanent establishment in the U.K.. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 31, 2035, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment.. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, as amended, has given us an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to us or any of our operations, shares, debentures or other obligations until March 31, 2035, except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or to any taxes payable by us in respect of real property owned or leased by us in Bermuda. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 31, 2035.. 54. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Shares. The price of our common shares may fluctuate significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Volatility in the market price of our common shares may prevent you from being able to sell your common shares at or above the price you paid for your common shares. The market price for our common shares could fluctuate significantly for various reasons, including, without limitation:. • our operating and financial performance and prospects;. • our quarterly or annual earnings or earnings estimates, or those of other companies in our industry;. • failure to meet external expectations or management guidance;. • the loss of one or more individually large clients, and its impact on our growth rate, profitability and financial condition;. • exposure to capital market risks related to changes in interest rates, realized investment losses, credit spreads, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and performance of insurance-linked investments;. • our creditworthiness, financial condition, performance and prospects;. • termination of payment of dividends on our common shares, or payment of a reduced amount of dividends;. • actual or anticipated growth rates relative to our competitors;. • perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with our common shares relative to other investment alternatives;. • speculation by the investment community regarding our business;. • future announcements concerning our business or our competitors' businesses;. • the public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • market and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our strategy;. • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, restructurings, significant contracts or joint ventures;. • catastrophes that are perceived by investors as impacting the insurance and reinsurance market in general;. • changes in laws or government regulation, including tax or insurance laws and regulations;. • potential characterization of us as a PFIC;. • general market, economic and political conditions;. • changes in conditions or trends in our industry, geographies or customers;. • arrival and departure of key personnel;. • the number of common shares that are publicly traded;. • sales of common shares by us, our directors, executive officers or principal shareholders; and. • adverse resolution of litigation against us.. In addition, stock markets, including the NASDAQ Stock Market (the market on which our common shares are traded), have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. In the past, some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to class action or derivative lawsuits. The filing of a lawsuit against us, regardless of the outcome, could have a negative effect on our business, as it could result in substantial legal costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources.. As a result of the factors described above, shareholders may not be able to resell their common shares at or above their purchase price or may not be able to resell them at all. These market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance.. 55. TABLE OF CONTENTS. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or publish misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our common share price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common shares depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts downgrades our shares or publishes misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our Company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our shares could decrease, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Sarbanes-Oxley could have a material adverse effect on our business and common share price.. As a public company with SEC reporting obligations, we are required to document and test our internal control procedures to satisfy the requirements of Section 404(b) of Sarbanes-Oxley, which require annual assessments by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.. During the course of our assessment, we may identify deficiencies that we are unable to remediate in a timely manner. Testing and maintaining our internal control over financial reporting may also divert management's attention from other matters that are important to the operation of our business. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404(b) of Sarbanes-Oxley. If we conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or its effect on our operations. Moreover, any material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting may impede our ability to file timely and accurate reports with the SEC. Any of the above could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information or our common share listing on the NASDAQ Stock Market to be suspended or terminated, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common shares.. Affiliates of D. E. Shaw & Co., L.P. own a significant amount of our outstanding common shares, which allows them to have significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, and provides them with the right to appoint one director.. D. E. Shaw CF-SP Franklin, L.L.C., D. E. Shaw Oculus Portfolios, L.L.C. and D. E. Shaw CH-SP Franklin, affiliates of D. E. Shaw & Co., L.P. (the \"D. E. Shaw Affiliates\") beneficially own approximately 11.1% of our outstanding common shares in the aggregate making them our largest affiliated shareholders. Based upon such ownership, the D. E. Shaw Affiliates have significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, determination of significant corporate actions, amendments to our organizational documents, and the approval of any business transaction, such as a merger or other sale of us or our assets. In addition, D. E. Shaw & Co., L.P. acts as an investment advisor to the D. E. Shaw Affiliates and may earn investment and management fees from the investment of the D. E. Shaw Affiliates in the Company which may influence their decision with respect to any proposed change of control of the Company.. Additionally, our bye-laws provide that for so long as the D. E. Shaw Affiliates collectively beneficially own shares representing at least 10% of our outstanding common shares, the D. E. Shaw Affiliates have the right to appoint one director to our board of directors. The D. E. Shaw Affiliates presently own approximately 11.1% of our outstanding common shares, and if they maintain such ownership through the record date for our 2018 annual general meeting, then they will have the power to appoint a director for a new three year term as a Class I director at such meeting.  The D. E. Shaw Affiliates have advised us that they intend to appoint Bryan Martin, an affiliate of the D. E. Shaw Affiliates, pursuant to this right.. Both Bryan Martin and David Zwillinger, also an affiliate of the D. E. Shaw Affiliates, are Class I directors of the Company. In their capacity as directors, Messrs. Martin and Zwillinger have significant influence over our management, business plans and policies. The significant share ownership of our common shares and affiliation of two of our directors with the D. E. Shaw Affiliates may materially adversely affect the trading price of our common shares due to investors' perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise.. Our bye-laws permit D. E. Shaw & Co., L.P. and its affiliates (including the D. E. Shaw Affiliates) and non-employee members of our board of directors to compete with us, which may result in conflicts of interest.. Our bye-laws provide that no shareholder, or any of its affiliates or members of our board of directors (other than those who are our officers, managers or employees), has any duty to (i) communicate or present to the Company any investment or business opportunity or prospective transaction or arrangement in which the Company may have any interest or expectancy or (ii) refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. D. E. Shaw & Co., L.P. and its affiliates (including the D. E. Shaw Affiliates) are in the business of making investments in companies and our bye-laws will not restrict them from acquiring and holding interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. For example, certain affiliates of D. E. Shaw & Co., L.P. are currently engaged in the reinsurance business. D. E. Shaw & Co., L.P., its affiliates and non-employee directors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of. 56. TABLE OF CONTENTS. operations or prospects if we are not able to pursue attractive corporate opportunities because they are allocated by one or more of the D. E. Shaw Affiliates to themselves or their other affiliates instead of being presented to us.. We depend upon dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries, and we may be unable to distribute dividends to our shareholders to the extent we do not receive dividends from our subsidiaries.. We are a holding company that has no substantial operations of our own and, accordingly, we rely primarily on cash dividends or distributions from our operating subsidiaries to pay our operating expenses and any dividends that we may pay to shareholders. The payment of dividends by our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries is limited under the laws and regulations of its applicable domicile. These regulations stipulate the maximum amount of annual dividends or other distributions available to shareholders without prior approval of the relevant regulatory authorities. As a result of such regulations, we may not be able to pay our operating expenses as they become due and our payment of future dividends to shareholders may be limited.. The payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us is limited by statute. In general, the laws and regulations applicable to our U.S. insurance subsidiaries limit the aggregate amount of dividends or other distributions that they may declare or pay within any 12 month period without advance regulatory approval. In Ohio, the domiciliary state of Falls Lake General, Falls Lake National and James River Insurance, this limitation is the greater of statutory net income for the preceding calendar year or 10% of the statutory surplus at the end of the preceding calendar year, provided that such dividends may only be paid out of earned surplus of each of the companies, without obtaining regulatory approval. In North Carolina, the domiciliary state of Stonewood Insurance, this limitation is the greater of statutory net income excluding realized capital gains for the preceding calendar year or 10% of the statutory surplus at the end of the preceding calendar year, provided that such dividends may only be paid out of unassigned surplus without obtaining regulatory approval. In Virginia, the domiciliary state of James River Casualty, this limitation is the greater of statutory net income excluding realized capital gains for the preceding calendar year or 10% of the statutory surplus at the end of the preceding calendar year, provided that such dividends may only be paid out of unassigned surplus without obtaining regulatory approval. In California, the domiciliary state of Falls Lake Fire and Casualty Company, this limitation is the greater of statutory net income for the preceding calendar year or 10% of the statutory surplus at the end of the preceding calendar year, provided that such dividends may only be paid out of unassigned surplus without obtaining regulatory approval. Moreover, as a condition to obtaining its license in California, Falls Lake Fire and Casualty Company provided a commitment to the California Department of Insurance that it would not pay any shareholder dividends for a five-year period commencing January 1, 2016 without prior written approval. In addition, insurance regulators have broad powers to prevent reduction of statutory surplus to inadequate levels and could refuse to permit the payment of dividends calculated under any applicable formula. See \"Business - Regulation - U.S. Insurance Regulation - State Regulation\" for more information. In addition, dividends paid by our U.S. subsidiaries to our U.K. holding company are subject to a 5% withholding tax by the IRS. Under U.K. domestic law, no withholding tax is applied to dividends paid by U.K. tax resident companies.. JRG Re, which is domiciled in Bermuda, is registered as a Class 3B insurer under the Insurance Act. The Insurance Act, the conditions listed in the insurance license and the applicable approvals issued by the BMA provide that JRG Re is required to maintain a minimum statutory solvency margin of $109.9 million as of December 31, 2017. See \"Business - Regulation - Bermuda Insurance Regulation - Minimum Solvency Margin and Enhanced Capital Requirements\" for more information. A Class 3B insurer is prohibited from declaring or paying a dividend if it fails to meet, before or after declaration or payment of such dividend, its: (i) requirements under the Companies Act, (ii) minimum solvency margin, (iii) enhanced capital requirement or (iv) minimum liquidity ratio. If a Class 3B insurer fails to meet its minimum solvency margin or minimum liquidity ratio on the last day of any financial year, it is prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends during the next financial year without the approval of the BMA. In addition, JRG Re, as a Class 3B insurer is prohibited from declaring or paying in any financial year dividends of more than 25% of its total statutory capital and surplus (as shown on its previous financial year's statutory balance sheet) unless it files (at least seven days before payment of such dividends) with the BMA an affidavit signed by at least 2 directors (one of whom must be a Bermuda resident director if any of the insurer's directors are resident in Bermuda) and the principal representative stating that it will continue to meet its solvency margin and minimum liquidity ratio. Where such an affidavit is filed, it shall be available for public inspection at the offices of the BMA. See \"Business -  Regulation - Bermuda Insurance Regulation - Restrictions on Dividends and Distributions\" for more information.. The inability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us, including as a result of regulatory or other restrictions, may prevent us from paying our expenses or paying dividends to our shareholders.. We cannot assure you that we will declare or pay dividends on our common shares in the future.. In 2017, we paid a dividend of<U+2009><U+2009>$0.30 per share during each quarter, as well as a special dividend of<U+2009> $0.50 per share during the fourth quarter. We paid dividends of<U+2009><U+2009>$0.20 per share in each of the first three quarters of 2016 and, in the fourth quarter, a $0.30 per share dividend plus a special dividend of<U+2009>$1.35 per share. In 2015, we paid a dividend of<U+2009> $0.16 per share during each quarter, as well as a special dividend of<U+2009> $1.00 per share during the fourth quarter. The declaration, payment and amount of future dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors. Our board of directors may take into account a variety of factors when determining whether to declare any future dividends, including (1) our financial condition, liquidity, results of. 57. TABLE OF CONTENTS. operations (including our ability to generate cash flow in excess of expenses and our expected or actual net income), retained earnings and collateral and capital requirements, (2) general business conditions, (3) legal, tax and regulatory limitations, (4) contractual prohibitions and other restrictions, (5) the effect of a dividend or dividends upon our financial strength ratings and (6) any other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. See \"Item 5. Market For Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases Of Equity Securities - Dividends.\". Dividends paid by our U.S. subsidiaries to James River UK may not be eligible for benefits under the U.S.-U.K. income tax treaty.. Under U.S. federal income tax law, dividends paid by a U.S. corporation to a non-U.S. shareholder are generally subject to a 30% withholding tax, unless reduced by treaty. The income tax treaty between the United Kingdom and the United States (the \"U.K. Treaty\") reduces the rate of withholding tax on certain dividends to 5%. Were the IRS to contend successfully that James River UK is not eligible for benefits under the U.K. Treaty, any dividends paid by James River Group, Inc., our U.S. holding company, to James River UK would be subject to the 30% withholding tax. Such a result would substantially reduce the amount of dividends that our shareholder may receive.. Future sales of our common shares, or the possibility of such sales, may cause the trading price of our common shares to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings.. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common shares to decline and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional shares. In January 2016, we filed a registration statement that registered under the Securities Act all of the common shares owned by the D. E. Shaw Affiliates, as well as securities that we may issue and sell (including common shares) that have a maximum aggregate value of<U+2009> $250,000,000. Since January 2016, the D. E. Shaw Affiliates have sold an aggregate of 10,750,000 common shares in registered offerings.  The remaining 3,297,238 common shares owned by the D. E. Shaw Affiliates remain eligible for sale under the registration statement.. In December 2014 and May 2017, we filed registration statements under the Securities Act to register the common shares to be issued under our equity incentive plans and, as a result, all common shares acquired upon exercise of share options or vesting of RSUs granted under our plans will also be freely tradable under the Securities Act, unless acquired by our affiliates. As of December 31, 2017, there were share options outstanding to purchase a total of 1,479,236 common shares and there were 178,882 common shares subject to restricted share units. In addition, 1,895,285 common shares are reserved for future issuances under our equity incentive plans.. In the future, we may issue additional common shares or other equity or debt securities convertible into common shares in connection with a financing, acquisition or employee arrangement or otherwise. Any of these issuances could result in substantial dilution to our existing shareholders and could cause the trading price of our common shares to decline.. Our bye-laws and provisions of Bermuda law may impede or discourage a change of control transaction, which could deprive our investors of the opportunity to receive a premium for their shares.. Our bye-laws and provisions of Bermuda law to which we are subject contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent \"change of control\" transactions or changes in our board of directors and management that certain shareholders may view as beneficial or advantageous. These provisions include, among others:. • the total voting power of any U.S. person owning more than 9.5% of our common shares will be reduced to 9.5% of the total voting power of our common shares, excluding the D. E. Shaw Affiliates and other shareholders that held more than 9.5% of our common shares on the day of completion of our IPO;. • our board of directors has the authority to issue preferred shares without shareholder approval, which could be used to dilute the ownership of a potential hostile acquirer;. • our shareholders may only remove directors for cause and so long as the D. E. Shaw Affiliates have the right to designate one director, the director designated by the D. E. Shaw Affiliates may only be replaced by the D. E. Shaw Affiliates;. • there are advance notice requirements for shareholders with respect to director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; and. • under Bermuda law, for so long as JRG Re is registered under the Insurance Act, the BMA may object to a person holding more than 10%, 20%, 33% or 50% of our common shares if it appears to the BMA that the person is not or is no longer fit and proper to be such a holder (See \" -  There are regulatory limitations on the ownership and transfer of our common shares.\").. 58. TABLE OF CONTENTS. The foregoing factors, as well as the significant share ownership by the D. E. Shaw Affiliates could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination, which could reduce the market value of our shares.. We may repurchase your common shares without your consent.. Under our bye-laws and subject to Bermuda law, we have the option, but not the obligation, to require a shareholder, other than the D. E. Shaw Affiliates and other shareholders holding more than 9.5% of our common shares on the day of completion of our IPO, to sell to us at fair market value the minimum number of common shares which is necessary to avoid or cure any adverse tax consequences or materially adverse legal or regulatory treatment to us, our subsidiaries or our shareholders, if our board of directors reasonably determines, in good faith, that failure to exercise this option would result in such adverse consequences or treatment.. Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our shares.. We are organized under the laws of Bermuda. As a result, our corporate affairs are governed by the Companies Act, which differs in some material respects from laws typically applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including the provisions relating to interested directors, amalgamations, mergers and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. Generally, the duties of directors and officers of a Bermuda company are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies typically do not have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company and may only do so in limited circumstances. Class actions are not available under Bermuda law. The circumstances in which derivative actions may be available under Bermuda law are substantially more proscribed and less clear than they would be to shareholders of U.S. corporations. The Bermuda courts, however, would ordinarily be expected to permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of a company to remedy a wrong to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company or illegal, or would result in the violation of the company's memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by a Bermuda court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against minority shareholders or, for instance, where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of the company's shareholders than that which actually approved it.. When the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner that is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to the Supreme Court of Bermuda, which may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company's affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company. Additionally, under our bye-laws and as permitted by Bermuda law, each shareholder has waived any claim or right of action against our directors or officers for any action taken by directors or officers in the performance of their duties, except for actions involving fraud or dishonesty. In addition, the rights of holders of our common shares and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Bermuda law are not as clearly established as under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in jurisdictions in the United States, particularly the State of Delaware. Therefore, holders of our common shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction within the United States.. There are regulatory limitations on the ownership and transfer of our common shares.. Common shares may be offered or sold in Bermuda only in compliance with the provisions of the Investment Business Act 2003 and the Exchange Control Act 1972 and related regulations of Bermuda, which regulate the sale of securities in Bermuda. In addition, the permission of the BMA is required under the provisions of the Exchange Control Act 1972 and related regulations for all issuances and transfers of shares of Bermuda companies to or from a non-resident of Bermuda for exchange control purposes, other than where the BMA has granted a general permission. The BMA, in its notice to the public dated June 1, 2005 has granted a general permission for the issue and subsequent transfer of any securities of a Bermuda company from and/or to a non-resident of Bermuda for exchange control purposes for so long as any \"equity securities\" of such company are listed on an appointed stock exchange, which includes the NASDAQ Stock Market. This general permission will apply to our common shares, but would cease to apply if we were to cease to be listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market.. In connection with the IPO, we received consent from the BMA to issue and transfer freely any of our shares, options, warrants, depository receipts, rights loan notes, debt instruments or other securities to and among persons who are either residents or non-residents of Bermuda for exchange control purposes.. The Insurance Act requires that where the shares of the registered insurer, or the shares of its parent company, are traded on a recognized stock exchange, and a person becomes a 10%, 20%, 33% or 50% shareholder controller of the insurer, that person shall, within 45 days, notify the BMA in writing that he has become such a controller.  In addition, a person who is a shareholder controller of a Class 3B insurer whose shares or the shares of its parent company (if any) are traded on a recognized stock exchange must serve on the BMA a notice in writing that he has reduced or disposed of his holding in the insurer where the proportion of voting rights in the insurer held by him will have reached or has fallen below 10%, 20%, 33% or 50% as the case may be, not later than 45 days after such disposal. This requirement will apply to us as long as our shares are listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market or another stock exchange recognized by the BMA. The BMA may, by written notice,. 59. TABLE OF CONTENTS. object to a person holding 10%, 20%, 33% or 50% of our common shares if it appears to the BMA that the person is not fit and proper to be such a holder. The BMA may require the holder to reduce its shareholding in us and may direct, among other things, that the voting rights attaching to its shares shall not be exercisable. A person that does not comply with such a notice or direction from the BMA will be guilty of an offense.. JRG Re is also required to notify the BMA in writing in the event any person has become or has ceased to be a controller or an officer of it (an officer includes a director, chief executive or senior executive performing duties of underwriting, actuarial, risk management, compliance, internal audit, finance or investment matters).. Except in connection with the settlement of trades or transactions entered into through the facilities of the NASDAQ Stock Market, our board of directors may generally require any shareholder or any person proposing to acquire our common shares to provide the information required under our bye-laws. If any such shareholder or proposed acquiror does not provide such information, or if our board of directors has reason to believe that any certification or other information provided pursuant to any such request is inaccurate or incomplete, our board of directors may decline to register any transfer or to effect any issuance or purchase of our common shares to which such request is related.. In addition, the insurance holding company laws and regulations of the states in which our insurance companies are domiciled generally require that, before a person can acquire direct or indirect control of an insurer domiciled in the state, and in some cases prior to divesting its control, prior written approval must be obtained from the insurer's domiciliary state insurance regulator. In addition to insurance holding company laws and regulations, under the Organizational Permit issued by the California Department of Insurance to Falls Lake Fire and Casualty Company, Falls Lake Fire and Casualty Company, as a new insurer, was required to enter into an agreement with Falls Lake National restricting the transfer of Falls Lake Fire and Casualty Company's shares for a five-year period commencing January 1, 2016. Specifically, under the agreement, the restriction on share transfer is released automatically without further approval or consent by the California Department of Insurance, or any other party, at the following respective times: 5% at the end of the first year of the 5-year restriction period; an additional 5% at the end of the second year; an additional 10% at the end of the third year; an additional 20% at the end of the fourth year; and the remainder at the end of the fifth year Therefore, under the Organizational Permit and the Agreement Restricting Shares, Falls Lake National's ability to directly or indirectly transfer the shares of Falls Lake Fire and Casualty Company to anyone without the prior written approval of the California Department of Insurance is limited. These laws and the similar conditions applicable to Falls Lake Fire and Casualty Company's shares may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent an investment in or a change of control involving us, or one or more of our regulated subsidiaries, including transactions that our management and some or all of shareholders might consider desirable. Pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, \"control\" over an insurer is generally presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds the power to vote or holds proxies representing, 10% or more of the voting securities of that reinsurer or insurer. Indirect ownership includes ownership of the Company's common shares."
