[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the risks described below and all of the other information contained in this report before deciding to invest in our securities. If any of the events or developments described below occur, our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business. We are affected by developments in the industries in which our customers operate.. We derive our revenues largely from customers in the following industry sectors: agricultural, automotive, motorcycles, construction, rail and industrial manufacturing. Factors affecting any of these industries in general, or any of our customers in particular, could adversely affect us because our revenue growth largely depends on the continued growth of our customers' businesses in their respective industries. These factors include:. • seasonality of demand for our customers' products which may cause our manufacturing capacity to be underutilized for periods of time;. • our customers' failure to successfully market their products, to gain or retain widespread commercial acceptance of their products or to compete effectively in their industries;. • loss of market share for our customers' products, which may lead our customers to reduce or discontinue purchasing our products and to reduce prices, thereby exerting pricing pressure on us;. • economic conditions in the markets in which our customers operate, in particular, the United States and Europe, including recessionary periods such as the 2008/2009 global economic downturn; and. • product design changes or manufacturing process changes that may reduce or eliminate demand for the components we supply.. We expect that future sales will continue to depend on the success of our customers. If economic conditions and demand for our customers' products deteriorate, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Some of our business segments are cyclical. A downturn or weakness in overall economic activity can have a material negative impact on us.. Historically, sales of products that we manufacture have been subject to cyclical variations caused by changes in general economic conditions. During recessionary periods, we have been adversely affected by reduced demand for our products. In addition, the strength of the economy generally may affect the rates of expansion, consolidation, renovation and equipment replacement in the industries we serve.. Volatility in the prices of raw materials and energy prices and our ability to pass along increased costs to our customers could adversely affect our results of operations.. The prices of raw materials critical to our business and performance, such as steel, are based on global supply and demand conditions. Certain raw materials used by us, including polyurethane foam, vinyl, plastics, steel, polyester fiber, bicomponent fiber and machined fiber are only available from a limited number of suppliers, and it may be difficult to find alternative suppliers at the same or similar costs. Our material costs may also be adversely impacted by tariffs or other trade duties on imports.  Although our contracts and long term arrangements with our customers generally do not expressly allow us to pass through increases in our raw materials, energy costs and other inputs to our customers, we endeavor to discuss price adjustments with our customers on a case by case basis where it makes business sense. While we strive to pass through the price of raw materials to our customers (other than increases in order amounts which are subject to negotiation), we may not be able to do so in the future, and volatility in the prices of raw materials may affect customer demand for certain products. In addition, we, along with our suppliers and customers, rely on various energy sources for a number of activities connected with our business, such as the transportation of raw materials and finished products. Energy and utility prices, including electricity and water prices, and in particular prices for petroleum-based energy sources, are volatile. Increased supplier and customer operating costs arising from volatility in the prices of energy sources, such as increased energy and utility costs and transportation costs, could be passed through to us and we may not be able to increase our product prices sufficiently or at all to offset such increased costs. The impact of any volatility in the prices of energy or the raw materials on which we rely, including the reduction in demand for certain products caused by such price volatility, could result in a loss of revenue and profitability and adversely affect our results of operations.. 11. We compete with numerous other manufacturers in each of our segments and competition from these providers may affect the profitability of our business.. The industries we serve are highly competitive. We compete with numerous companies that manufacture finishing, components, seating and automotive acoustics products. Many of our competitors have international operations and significant financial resources and some have substantially greater manufacturing, research and design and marketing resources than us. These competitors may, among others:. • respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies;. • have greater name recognition, critical mass or geographic market presence;. • be better able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities;. • adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements;. • devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products;. • be better positioned to compete on price for their products, due to any combination of low-cost labor, raw materials, components, facilities or other operating items, or willingness to make sales at lower margins than us;. • consolidate with other competitors in the industry which may create increased pricing and competitive pressures on our business; and. • be better able to utilize excess capacity which may reduce the cost of their products or services.. Competitors with lower cost structures may have a competitive advantage when bidding for business with our customers. We also expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products or services, to reduce prices of their existing products or services and to introduce new products or services that may offer greater performance and improved pricing. Additionally, we may face competition from new entrants to the industry in which we operate. Any of these developments could cause a decline in sales and average selling prices, loss of market share of our products or profit margin compression.. In addition, our level of indebtedness and financial condition may make it difficult for us to continue to negotiate acceptable payment terms with our vendors and customers or may result in one or more of our suppliers making demand for adequate assurance, which could include a demand for payment in advance.  If we are unable to negotiate acceptable payment terms with our customers, or if any of our material suppliers were to successfully demand payment in advance, and we were unable to internally generate or externally raise cash in sufficient amounts to cover our resulting reduced liquidity, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our competitive position, and it may also make it more difficult for us to obtain future financing.. We face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties.. We sell a portion of our products through third parties such as distributors, agents and channel partners (collectively referred to as distributors). Using third parties for distribution exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk, and compliance risks. Distributors may sell products that compete with our products, and we may need to provide financial and other incentives to focus distributors on the sale of our products. We may rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue. Distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business. Failing to manage risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position.. We may not be able to maintain our engineering, technological and manufacturing expertise.. The markets for our products are characterized by changing technology and evolving process development. The continued success of our business will depend upon our ability to:. • hire, retain and expand our pool of qualified engineering and technical personnel;. • maintain technological leadership in our industry;. • successfully anticipate or respond to changes in manufacturing processes in a cost-effective and timely manner; and. • successfully anticipate or respond to changes in cost to serve in a cost-effective and timely manner.. We cannot be certain that we will develop the capabilities required by our customers in the future. The emergence of new technologies, industry standards or customer requirements may render our equipment, inventory or processes obsolete or uncompetitive. We may have to acquire new technologies and equipment to remain competitive. The acquisition and. 12. implementation of new technologies and equipment may require us to incur significant expense and capital investment, which could reduce our margins and affect our operating results. When we establish or acquire new facilities, we may not be able to maintain or develop our engineering, technological and manufacturing expertise due to a lack of trained personnel, effective training of new staff or technical difficulties with machinery. Failure to anticipate and adapt to customers' changing technological needs and requirements or to hire and retain a sufficient number of engineers and maintain engineering, technological and manufacturing expertise may have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may be unable to realize the expected benefits of capital expenditures, which could adversely affect our profitability and operations.. We expect to continue to invest in our business through capital expenditures to support our facilities and purchases of production equipment and acquisitions. There can be no assurance that these investments will generate any specific return on investment.. Our goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial amount of our total assets.  A decline in future operating performance at one or more of our reporting units could result in the further impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. At December 31, 2017, goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $176.6 million, or approximately 32% of our total assets. The goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of the net tangible and other identifiable intangible assets we have acquired. We assess annually whether there has been impairment in the value of our goodwill. If future operating performance at one or more of our reporting units were to fall below current or planned levels, we could be required to recognize a non-cash charge to operating earnings for goodwill (at our finishing reporting unit) or record an impairment charge related to other intangible assets. In the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company recorded charges of $63.3 million for the impairment of goodwill. Given the continued significance of the Company's goodwill and intangible assets, any additional significant goodwill or intangible asset impairment could reduce earnings in such period and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Divestitures and discontinued operations could negatively impact our business, and contingent liabilities from businesses that we sell could adversely affect our financial results.. As part of our portfolio management process, we review our operations for businesses which may no longer be aligned with our strategic initiatives and long-term objectives.  Divestitures pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business. For example, when we decide to sell a business, we may be unable to do so on satisfactory terms and within our anticipated time-frame, and even after reaching a definitive agreement to sell a business, the sale may be subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions, which may not be satisfied, as well as regulatory and governmental approvals, which may prevent us from completing a transaction on acceptable terms. In addition, the impact of the divestiture on our revenue and net earnings may be larger than projected, which could distract management, and disputes may arise with buyers.  Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement, as we may be required to retain responsibility for, or agree to indemnify buyers against contingent liabilities related to businesses sold, such as lawsuits, tax liabilities, product liability claims or environmental matters.  Under these types of arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside our control could affect our future financial results.. If we fail to develop new and innovative products or if customers in our markets do not accept them, our results could be negatively affected.. Our products must be kept current to meet our customers' needs. To remain competitive, we therefore must develop new and innovative products on an ongoing basis. If we fail to make innovations or the market does not accept our new products, our sales and results would likely suffer. We invest significantly in the research and development of new products. These expenditures do not always result in products that will be accepted by the market. To the extent they do not, whether as a function of the product or the business cycle, we will have increased expenses without significant sales to benefit us. Failure to develop successful new products may also cause potential customers to purchase competitors' products, rather than invest in products manufactured by us.. The potential impact of failing to deliver products on time could increase the cost of the products.. In most instances, we guarantee that we will deliver a product by a scheduled date. If we subsequently fail to deliver the product as scheduled, we may be held responsible for cost impacts and/or other damages resulting from any delay. To the extent that these failures to deliver may occur, the total damages for which we could be liable could significantly increase the cost of the products; as such, we could experience reduced profits or, in some cases, a loss for that contract. Additionally, failure to deliver products on time could result in damage to customer relationships, the potential loss of customers, and reputational damage which could impair our ability to attract new customers.. 13. Increasing costs of doing business in many countries in which we operate may adversely affect our business and financial results.. Increasing costs such as labor and overhead costs in the countries in which we operate may erode our profit margins and compromise our price competitiveness. Historically, the low cost of labor in certain of the countries in which we operate has been a competitive advantage but labor costs in these countries, such as China, have been increasing. Our profitability also depends on our ability to manage and contain our other operating expenses such as the cost of utilities, factory supplies, factory space costs, equipment rental, repairs and maintenance and freight and packaging expenses. In the event we are unable to manage any increase in our labor and other operating expenses in an environment where revenue does not increase proportionately, our financial results would be adversely affected.. Our international scope will require us to obtain financing in various jurisdictions.. We operate manufacturing facilities in the United States and 13 foreign countries, which creates financing challenges for us. These challenges include navigating local legal and regulatory requirements associated with obtaining financing in the respective foreign jurisdictions in which we operate. In the event that we are not able to obtain financing on satisfactory terms in any of these jurisdictions, it could significantly impair our ability to run our foreign operations on a cost effective basis or to grow such operations. Failure to manage such challenges may adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We have operations in many countries and such operations may be subject to a number of risks specific to these countries.. Our international operations across many different jurisdictions may be subject to a number of risks specific to these countries, including:. • less flexible employee relationships which can be difficult and expensive to terminate;. • labor unrest;. • political and economic instability (including war and acts of terrorism);. • inadequate infrastructure for our operations (i.e., lack of adequate power, water, transportation and raw materials);. • health concerns and related government actions;. • risk of governmental expropriation of our property;. • less favorable, or relatively undefined, intellectual property laws;. • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and laws;. • longer customer payment cycles and difficulty in collecting trade accounts receivable;. • export duties, tariffs, import controls and trade barriers (including quotas);. • adverse trade policies or adverse changes to any of the policies of either the United States or any of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate;. • adverse changes in tax rates or regulations;. • legal or political constraints on our ability to maintain or increase prices;. • burdens of complying with a wide variety of labor practices and foreign laws, including those relating to export and import duties, environmental policies and privacy issues;. • inability to utilize net operating losses incurred by our foreign operations against future income in the same jurisdiction; and. • economies that are emerging or developing, that may be subject to greater currency volatility, negative growth, high inflation, limited availability of foreign exchange and other risks.. These factors may harm our results of operations, and any measures that we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies and other risks of our international operations may not be effective. In our experience, entry into new international markets requires considerable management time as well as start-up expenses for market development, hiring and establishing office facilities before any significant revenue is generated. As a result, initial operations in a new market may operate at low margins or may be unprofitable.. 14. Our international sales and operations are subject to applicable laws relating to trade, export controls and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations.. We are subject to applicable international trade, customs, export controls and economic sanctions laws and regulations of the United States and other countries and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery laws that generally bar bribes or unreasonable gifts to foreign governments or officials. Changes in such laws may restrict our business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries or with sanctioned entities, and may result in modifications to compliance programs. Violation of these laws or regulations could result in sanctions or fines and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  In addition, changes or modifications to existing trade agreements between the United States and other countries could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to risks of currency fluctuations and related hedging operations, and the devaluation of the currencies of countries in which we conduct our manufacturing operations, particularly the Euro, that may negatively affect the profitability of our business.. We report our financial results in U.S. dollars. Approximately 32% of our net sales in 2017 were in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Changes in exchange rates among other currencies, especially the Euro to the U.S. dollar, may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales, gross profit and net income where our expenses and revenues are denominated in different currencies. We cannot predict the effect of future exchange rate fluctuations. We may from time to time use financial instruments, primarily short-term forward contracts, to hedge Euro and other currency commitments arising from foreign currency obligations. Where possible, we endeavor to match our non-functional currency exchange requirements to our receipts. If our hedging activities are not successful or if we change or reduce these hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates.. We depend on our key executive officers, managers and skilled personnel and may have difficulty retaining and recruiting qualified employees and managing the cost of labor.. Our success depends to a large extent upon the continued services of our executive officers, senior management personnel, managers and other skilled personnel and our ability to recruit and retain skilled personnel to maintain and expand our operations. We could be affected by the loss of any of our executive officers who are responsible for formulating and implementing our business plan and strategy. In addition, we need to recruit and retain additional management personnel and other skilled employees. However, competition is high for skilled technical personnel among companies that rely on engineering and technology, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to conduct design, engineering and manufacturing activities successfully and develop marketable products. We may not be able to attract the skilled personnel we require or retain those whom we have trained at our own cost. If we are not able to do so, our business and our ability to continue to grow could be negatively affected and we could face additional competition from those who leave and work for our competitors.. We continue to be dependent on our production personnel to manufacture our products in a cost-effective and efficient. manner.  We believe there is significant competition for production personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to continue efficient operations, reduce production costs, and consolidate operations will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training, integrating and retaining sufficient numbers of production personnel to support our production, cost savings and consolidation targets. New hires require significant training and it may take significant time before they achieve full productivity. As a result, we may incur significant costs to attract, train and retain employees, including significant expenditures related to salaries and benefits. If we are unable to hire and train sufficient numbers of effective production personnel, our business would be adversely affected.. Many of our customers do not commit to long-term production schedules, which makes it difficult for us to schedule production accurately and achieve maximum efficiency of our manufacturing capacity.. Generally, our customers do not commit to long-term contracts. Many of our customers do not commit to firm production schedules and we continue to experience reduced lead-times in customer orders. Additionally, customers may change production quantities or delay production with little lead-time or advance notice. Therefore, we rely on and plan our production and inventory levels based on our customers' advance orders, commitments or forecasts, as well as our internal assessments and forecasts of customer demand. The volume and timing of sales to our customers may vary due to, among other factors:. • variation in demand for or discontinuation of our customers' products;. • our customers' attempts to manage their inventory;. • design changes;. 15. • changes in our customers' manufacturing strategies; and. • acquisitions of or consolidation among customers.. The variations in volume and timing of sales make it difficult to schedule production and optimize manufacturing capacity. This uncertainty may require us to increase staffing and incur other expenses in order to meet an unexpected increase in customer demand, potentially placing a significant burden on our resources. Additionally, an inability to respond to such increases may cause customer dissatisfaction, which may negatively affect our customers' relationships.. Further, in order to secure sufficient production scale, we may make capital investments in advance of anticipated customer demand. Such investments may lead to low utilization levels if customer demand forecasts change and we are unable to utilize the additional capacity. Because fixed costs make up a large proportion of our total production costs, a reduction in customer demand can have a significant adverse impact on our gross profits and operating results. Additionally, we order materials and components based on customer forecasts and orders and suppliers may require us to purchase materials and components in minimum quantities that exceed customer requirements, which may have an adverse impact on our gross profits and operating results. In the past, anticipated orders from some of our customers have failed to materialize and delivery schedules have been deferred as a result of changes in our customers' business needs. We have also allowed long-term customers to delay orders to absorb excess inventory. Such order fluctuations and deferrals may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and/or financial conditions.. We may incur additional expenses and delays due to technical problems or other interruptions at our manufacturing facilities or those of our suppliers.. Disruptions in operations due to technical problems or other interruptions such as floods or fire would adversely affect the manufacturing capacity of our facilities or those of our suppliers. Such interruptions could cause delays in production and cause us to incur additional expenses such as charges for expedited deliveries for products that are delayed. Additionally, our customers have the ability to cancel purchase orders in the event of any delays in production and may decrease future orders if delays are persistent. Additionally, to the extent that such disruptions do not result from damage to our physical property, these may not be covered by our business interruption insurance. Any such disruptions may adversely affect our business, operations, and financial results.. We may be unable to realize the expected benefits of our restructuring actions, which could adversely affect our profitability and operations.. In order to align our resources with our growth strategies, operate more efficiently and control costs, we have periodically announced restructuring plans, which include workforce reductions, plant closures and consolidations, asset impairments and other cost reduction initiatives. On March 1, 2016, as part of a strategic review of organizational structure and operations, the Company announced a global cost reduction and restructuring program. This program includes entering into severance and termination agreements with employees and footprint rationalization activities, including exit and relocation costs for the consolidation and closure of plant facilities and lease termination costs. These activities were ongoing during 2017 and are expected to be completed in 2018. We may undertake additional restructuring actions and workforce reductions in the future. As these plans and actions are complex, unforeseen factors could result in expected savings and benefits to be delayed or not realized to the full extent planned, and our operations and business may be disrupted.. The operations of our manufacturing facilities may be disrupted by union activities and other labor-related problems.. We have labor unions at certain of our facilities. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 500 unionized personnel in the United States. For such employees, we have entered into collective bargaining agreements with the respective labor unions. In the future, such agreements may limit our ability to contain increases in our labor costs as our ability to control future labor costs depends partly on the outcome of wage negotiations with our employees. Any future collective bargaining agreements may lead to further increases in our labor costs. Although our employees in certain other facilities are currently not unionized, there can be no assurance that they will continue to remain as such.. Union activities and other labor-related problems not linked to union activities may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We cannot provide any assurance that we will not be affected by any such labor unrest, or increase in labor cost, or interruptions to the operations of our existing manufacturing plants or new manufacturing plants that we may set up in the future. Any disruptions to our manufacturing facilities as a result of labor-related disturbances could affect our ability to meet delivery and efficiency targets resulting in an adverse effect on our customer relationships and our financial results. Such disruptions may not be covered by our business interruption insurance.. Any disruption in our information systems could disrupt our operations and would be adverse to our business and financial operations.. We depend on various information systems to support our customers' requirements and to successfully manage our business, including managing orders, supplies, accounting controls and payroll. Any inability to successfully manage the. 16. procurement, development, implementation or execution of our information systems and back-up systems, including matters related to system security, reliability, performance and access, as well as any inability of these systems to fulfill their intended purpose within our business, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Such disruptions may not be covered by our business interruption insurance.. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, as well as personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology, infrastructure and business processes may be vulnerable to malicious attacks or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions, including as a result of rollouts of new systems. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings and/or regulatory penalties, disruption of our operations, damage of our reputation, financial loss through unauthorized payments and/or cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business.. Natural disasters, epidemics and other events outside our control, and the ineffective management of such events, may harm our business.. Some of our facilities are located in areas that may be affected by natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, water shortages, tsunamis and floods. All facilities are subject to other natural or man-made disasters such as fires, acts of terrorism, failures of utilities and epidemics. If such an event were to occur, our business could be harmed due to the event or our inability to effectively manage the effects of the particular event. Potential harms include the loss of business continuity, the loss of business data and damage to infrastructure.. Our production could be severely affected if our employees or the regions in which our facilities are located are affected by a significant outbreak of any disease or epidemic. For example, a facility could be closed by government authorities for a sustained period of time, some or all of our workforce could be unavailable due to quarantine, fear of catching the disease or other factors, and local, national or international transportation or other infrastructure could be affected, leading to delays or loss of production. In addition, our suppliers and customers are subject to similar risks, which could lead to a shortage of components or a reduction in our customers' demand for our services.. We rely on a variety of common carriers to transport our materials from our suppliers, and to transport products from us to our customers. Problems suffered by any of these common carriers, whether due to a natural disaster, labor problem, act of terrorism, increased energy prices or some other issue, could result in shipping delays, increased costs or some other supply chain disruption and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our operations.. In addition, some of our facilities possess certifications, machinery, equipment or tooling necessary to work on specialized products that our other locations lack. If work is disrupted at one of these facilities, it may not be practicable or feasible to transfer such specialized work to another facility without significant costs and delays. Thus, any disruption in operations at a facility possessing specialized certifications, machinery, equipment or tooling could adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers and thus negatively affect our relationships and financial results.. Political and economic developments could adversely affect our business.. Increased international political instability and social unrest, evidenced by the threat or occurrence of terrorist attacks, enhanced national security measures and the related decline in consumer confidence may hinder our ability to do business. Any escalation in these events or similar future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers and suppliers and could affect the availability of raw materials and components needed to manufacture our products or the means to transport those materials to manufacturing facilities and finished products to customers. These events may have an adverse effect on the world economy and consumer confidence and spending, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. The effect of these events on the volatility of the world financial markets could in the future lead to volatility of the market price of our securities and may limit the capital resources available to us, our customers and suppliers.. Sales of our products may result in exposure to product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims.. Our manufactured products can expose us to potential liabilities. For instance, our manufacturing businesses expose us to potential product liability claims resulting from injuries caused by defects in products we design or manufacture, as well as potential claims that products we design or processes we use infringe on third-party intellectual property rights. Such claims could subject us to significant liability for damages, subject the infringing portion of our business to injunction and, regardless of their merits, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve. We may also have greater potential exposure from warranty. 17. claims and product recalls due to problems caused by product design. Although we have product liability insurance coverage, it may not be sufficient to cover the full extent of our product liability, if at all, and may also be subject to the satisfaction of a deductible. A successful product liability claim in excess or outside of our insurance coverage or any material claim for which insurance coverage was denied or limited and for which indemnification was not available could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.. If our manufacturing processes and products do not comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, or if we manufacture products containing design or manufacturing defects, demand for our products may decline and we may be subject to liability claims.. Our designs, manufacturing processes and facilities need to comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. We may also have the responsibility to ensure that products we design satisfy safety and regulatory standards including those applicable to our customers and to obtain any necessary certifications. In addition, our customers' products and the manufacturing processes that we use to produce them are often highly complex. As a result, products that we manufacture may at times contain manufacturing or design defects, and our manufacturing processes may be subject to errors or not be in compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements or demands of our customers. Defects in the products we manufacture or design, whether caused by a design, manufacturing or component failure or error, or deficiencies in our manufacturing processes, may result in delayed shipments to customers, replacement costs or reduced or canceled customer orders. If these defects or deficiencies are significant, our business reputation may also be damaged. The failure of the products that we manufacture or our manufacturing processes and facilities to comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements may subject us to legal fines or penalties and, in some cases, require us to shut down or incur considerable expense to correct a manufacturing process or facility. In addition, these defects may result in liability claims against us or expose us to liability to pay for the recall of a product or to indemnify our customers for the costs of any such claims or recalls which they face as a result of using items manufactured by us in their products. Even if our customers are responsible for the defects, they may not assume, or may not have resources to assume, responsibility for any costs or liabilities arising from these defects, which could expose us to additional liability claims.. Compliance or the failure to comply with regulations and governmental policies could cause us to incur significant expense.. We are subject to a variety of local and foreign laws and regulations including those relating to labor and health and safety concerns and import/export duties and customs. Such laws may require us to pay mandated compensation in the event of workplace accidents and penalties in the event of incorrect payments of duties or customs. Additionally, we may need to obtain and maintain licenses and permits to conduct business in various jurisdictions. If we or the businesses or companies we acquire have failed or fail in the future to comply with such laws and regulations, then we could incur liabilities and fines and our operations could be suspended. Such laws and regulations could also restrict our ability to modify or expand our facilities, could require us to acquire costly equipment, or could impose other significant expenditures.. If our products are subject to warranty claims, our business reputation may be damaged and we may incur significant costs.. We generally provide warranties to our customers for defects in materials and workmanship and where our products do not conform to specifications. A successful claim for damages arising as a result of such defects or deficiencies may affect our business reputation. In addition, a successful claim for which we are not insured, where the damages exceed insurance coverage, where we cannot recover from our vendors to the extent their materials or workmanship were defective, or any material claim for which insurance coverage is denied or limited and for which indemnification is not available, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, as we pursue new end-markets, warranty requirements will vary and we may be less effective in pricing our products to appropriately capture the warranty costs.. We are or may be required to obtain and maintain quality or product certifications for certain markets.. In some countries, our customers require or prefer that we obtain certain certifications for our products and testing facilities with regard to specifications/quality standards. For example, we are required to obtain American Railroad Association approval for certain of our products. Consequently, we need to obtain and maintain the relevant certifications so that our customers are able to sell their products, which are manufactured by us, in these countries. If we are unable to meet and maintain the requirements needed to secure or renew such certifications, we may not be able to sell our products to certain customers and our financial results may be adversely affected.. Our income tax returns are subject to current tax legislation and review by taxing authorities, and the final determination of our tax liability with respect to changes in tax legislation, tax audits and any related litigation could adversely affect our financial results.. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable and that we prepare our tax filings in accordance with all applicable current tax laws, the final determination with respect to any tax audits and changes in tax legislation, and any related litigation, could be materially different from our estimates or from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The. 18. results of an audit, tax reform or litigation could have a material effect on operating results and/or cash flows in the periods for which that determination is made. In addition, future period earnings may be adversely impacted by litigation costs, settlements, penalties, and/or interest assessments. We are undergoing tax audits in various jurisdictions and we regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from such examinations to determine the adequacy of our tax reserves.. On December 22, 2017 the President of the United States signed into law comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Reform Act\") which will impact our provision for income taxes.  The legislation significantly changes U.S. tax law by, among other things, lowering corporate income tax rates, implementing a territorial tax system, limiting the deductibility of interest payments and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries.  The Company is still evaluating the impact that the Tax Reform Act will have on its tax position.  The impact of the Tax Reform Act, including future guidance and interpretations, could result in an increase to our U.S. tax liability and a resulting negative impact on our future operating results.. Failure of our customers to pay the amounts owed to us in a timely manner may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. We generally provide payment terms ranging from 30 to 50 days. As a result, we generate significant accounts receivable from sales to our customers, representing 33.6% and 37.0% of current assets as of December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. Accounts receivable from sales to customers were $68.6 million and $77.8 million as of December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, the largest amount owed by a single customer was approximately 13% of total accounts receivable. As of December 31, 2017, our allowance for doubtful accounts was approximately $3.0 million. If any of our significant customers have insufficient liquidity, we could encounter significant delays or defaults in payments owed to us by such customers, and we may need to extend our payment terms or restructure the receivables owed to us, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition. Any deterioration in the financial condition of our customers will increase the risk of uncollectible receivables. Global economic uncertainty could also affect our customers' ability to pay our receivables in a timely manner or at all or result in customers going into bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings, which could also affect our ability to collect our receivables.. Regulations related to conflict minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and affect the manufacturing and sale of our products.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"), signed into law on July 21, 2010, includes Section 1502, pursuant to which the SEC adopted additional disclosure requirements related to certain minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo and surrounding countries, or \"conflict minerals,\" for which such conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by an SEC reporting company. The metals covered by the final rules are commonly referred to as \"3TG\" and include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. Compliance with the disclosure requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of some of the minerals used in the manufacture of our products. Our supply chain is complex, and if we are not able to conclusively verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products or that our products are \"conflict free,\" we may face reputational challenges with our customers or investors. Furthermore, we may also encounter challenges to satisfy customers who require that our products be certified as \"conflict free,\" which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so. Additionally, as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering \"conflict free\" metals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary metals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. We could incur significant costs related to the compliance process, including potential difficulty or added costs in satisfying the disclosure requirements.  Other laws or regulations impacting our supply chain may have similar consequences.. Our failure to comply with environmental laws could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including regulations governing the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous substances used in our manufacturing processes.. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing the recyclability of products, the materials that may be included in products, and our obligations to dispose of these products after end-users have finished with them. Additionally, we may be exposed to liability to our customers relating to the materials that may be included in the components that we procure for our customers' products. Any violation or alleged violation by us of environmental laws could subject us to significant costs, fines or other penalties.. We are also required to comply with an increasing number of product environmental compliance regulations focused on the restriction of certain hazardous substances. Non-compliance could result in significant costs and penalties.. In addition, increasing governmental focus on climate change may result in new environmental regulations that may negatively affect us, our suppliers and our customers by requiring us to incur additional direct costs to comply with new environmental regulations, as well as additional indirect costs as a result of our customers or suppliers passing on additional compliance costs. These costs may adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. 19. Environmental liabilities that may arise in the future could be material to us.. Our operations, facilities and properties are subject to extensive and evolving laws and regulations pertaining to air emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes, the remediation of contamination, and otherwise relating to health, safety and the protection of the environment. As a result, we are involved from time to time in administrative or legal proceedings relating to environmental and health and safety matters, and have in the past and will continue to incur capital costs and other expenditures relating to such matters. We also cannot be certain that identification of presently unidentified environmental conditions, more vigorous enforcement by regulatory authorities or other unanticipated events will not arise in the future and give rise to additional environmental liabilities, compliance costs and/or penalties that could be material. Further, environmental laws and regulations are constantly evolving and it is impossible to predict accurately the effect they may have upon our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Changes in laws or regulations, or a failure to comply with any laws and regulations, may adversely affect our business, investments and results of operations.. We are subject to laws and regulations enacted by national, regional and local governments, including non-U.S. governments. In particular, we are required to comply with certain SEC and other legal requirements. Compliance with, and monitoring of, applicable laws and regulations may be difficult, time consuming and costly. Those laws and regulations and their interpretation and application may also change from time to time and those changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, investments and results of operations. In addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, as interpreted and applied, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Pursuant to the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the \"JOBS Act\"), our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for so long as we are an \"emerging growth company.\". Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and generally requires in the same report a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to provide management's attestation on internal controls, however, under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until we are no longer an \"emerging growth company\". We will be an \"emerging growth company\" until the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following August 14, 2018, the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our prior second fiscal quarter, and (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period.. We may encounter difficulties in completing or integrating acquisitions, which could adversely affect our operating results.. We expect to expand our presence in new end markets, expand our capabilities and acquire new customers, some of which may occur through acquisitions. These transactions may involve acquisitions of entire companies, portions of companies, the entry into joint ventures and acquisitions of businesses or selected assets. Potential challenges related to our acquisitions and joint ventures include:. • paying an excessive price for acquisitions and incurring higher than expected acquisition costs;. • difficulty in integrating acquired operations, systems, assets and businesses;. • difficulty in implementing financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures;. • difficulty in maintaining customer, supplier, employee or other favorable business relationships of acquired operations and restructuring or terminating unfavorable relationships;. • ensuring sufficient due diligence prior to an acquisition and addressing unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses;. • making acquisitions in new end markets, geographies or technologies where our knowledge or experience is limited;. • failing to realize the benefits from goodwill and intangible assets resulting from acquisitions which may result in write-downs;. • failing to achieve anticipated business volumes; and. • making acquisitions which force us to divest other businesses.. 20. Any of these factors could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, including additional revenue, operational synergies and economies of scale. Our failure to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Acquisitions, expansions or infrastructure investments may require us to increase our level of indebtedness or issue additional equity.. Should we desire to undertake significant additional expansion activities, make substantial investments in our infrastructure or consummate significant additional acquisition opportunities, our capital needs would increase and we may need to increase available borrowings under our credit facilities or access public or private debt and equity markets. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in raising additional debt or equity on terms that we would consider acceptable.. An increase in the level of indebtedness could, among other things:. • make it difficult for us to obtain financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions or other purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business;. • affect our ability to pay dividends;. • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; and. • affect certain financial covenants with which we must comply in connection with our credit facilities.. Additionally, a further equity issuance could dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders.. Risk Factors Relating to Our Indebtedness. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may limit our operating flexibility and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We have approximately $410.7 million of indebtedness as of December 31, 2017, consisting of $388.0 million in term loans, $21.8 million in borrowings under existing non-U.S. debt agreements, and $0.8 million of capital leases.. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to our investors, including, but not limited to:. • increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to respond to, general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal, and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, joint ventures or other general corporate purposes;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the competitive environment and the industry in which we operate;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged; and. • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds and increasing the cost of any such borrowing.. A breach of a covenant or restriction contained in our U.S. credit facility (the \"Senior Secured Credit Facilities\") could result in a default that could in turn permit the affected lenders to accelerate the repayment of principal and accrued interest on our outstanding loans and terminate their commitments to lend additional funds. If the lenders under such indebtedness accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we cannot assure that we will have sufficient assets to repay those borrowings as well as other indebtedness.. To the extent that our access to credit is restricted because of our own performance or conditions in the capital markets generally, our financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Our level of indebtedness may make it difficult to service our debt and may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing, use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or otherwise adversely affect our operations.. Our Senior Secured Credit Facilities contain restrictive covenants that may impair our ability to conduct business.. The Senior Secured Credit Facilities contain a number of customary affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, limit or restrict the ability of Jason Incorporated and its Restricted Subsidiaries (as defined in the Senior Secured Credit Facilities) to: incur additional indebtedness (including guaranty obligations); incur liens; engage in mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; sell assets; pay dividends and make other payments in respect of capital stock; make acquisitions, investments, loans and advances; pay and modify the terms of certain indebtedness; engage in certain. 21. transactions with affiliates; enter into negative pledge clauses and clauses restricting subsidiary distributions; and change its line of business, in each case, subject to certain limited exceptions. In addition, under the revolving loan portion of our Senior Secured Credit Facilities, if the aggregate outstanding amount of all revolving loans, swingline loans and certain letter of credit obligations exceeds 25% of the revolving credit commitments at the end of any fiscal quarter, Jason Incorporated and its Restricted Subsidiaries will be required to not exceed a specified consolidated first lien leverage ratio. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we are limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or other financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. Failure to comply with such restrictive covenants may lead to default and acceleration under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and may impair our ability to conduct business. We may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, we may not be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants, which may adversely affect our financial condition.. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities, the lenders could elect to accelerate payments due and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Consequently, we may not have sufficient assets to repay the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, as well as other secured and unsecured indebtedness.. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. The Company has pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. If the lenders under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure that we will have sufficient assets to repay the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, as well as other secured and unsecured indebtedness.. An adverse change in the interest rates for our borrowings could adversely affect our financial condition.. We pay interest on outstanding borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities at interest rates that fluctuate based upon changes in certain short term prevailing interest rates. An adverse change in these rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to borrow money in the future. At times, we will enter into interest rate swaps to hedge some of this risk. If the duration of interest rate swaps exceeds one month, we will have to mark-to-market the value of such swaps which could cause us to recognize losses.. Risk Factors Relating to Our Securities and Capital Structure. General Securities and Capital Structure Risk Factors. The market price of our securities may decline.. Fluctuations in the price of our securities could contribute to the loss of all or part of your investment. Trading in our common stock and warrants has been limited. There is also currently no market for our Series A Preferred Stock and it is unlikely one will develop. If an active market for our securities develops and continues, the trading price of our securities could be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Any of the factors listed below could have a material adverse effect on your investment and our securities may trade at prices significantly below the price you paid for them. In such circumstances, the trading price of our securities may not recover and may experience a further decline.. Factors affecting the trading price of our securities may include:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial results or the financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us;. • changes in the market's expectations about our operating results;. • success of competitors;. • our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period;. • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning the Company or its markets in general;. • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company;. • our ability to market new and enhanced products on a timely basis;. • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business;. • commencement of, or involvement in, litigation involving the Company;. 22. • changes in the Company's capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt;. • the volume of securities available for public sale;. • any major change in our board or management;. • sales of substantial amounts of our securities by our directors, executive officers or significant shareholders or the perception that such sales could occur; and. • general economic and political conditions such as recession; interest rate, fuel price, and international currency fluctuations; and acts of war or terrorism.. As of December 31, 2017, there were 25,966,381 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding. While our common shares trade on Nasdaq, our stock is thinly traded (approximately 0.4%, or 104,000 shares, of our stock traded on an average daily basis during the year ended December 31, 2017), and you may have difficulty in selling your shares quickly.. In addition, the market price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the Series A Preferred Stock as a more attractive means of equity participation in us and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity involving our common stock. The hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of the Series A Preferred Stock or any common stock that holders receive upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock.. Many of the factors listed above are beyond our control. In addition, broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our securities irrespective of our operating performance. The stock market in general, and Nasdaq, have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the particular companies affected. The trading prices and valuations of these stocks, and of our common stock and warrants which trade on Nasdaq, may not be predictable. A loss of investor confidence in the market for retail stocks or the stocks of other companies which investors perceive to be similar to the Company could depress the price of our securities regardless of our business, prospects, financial conditions or results of operations. A decline in the market price of our securities also could adversely affect our ability to issue additional securities and our ability to obtain additional financing in the future.. Our inability to comply with the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market could result in our common stock and/or warrants being delisted, which could adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our securities and could have other adverse effects.. To remain in compliance with the continued listing requirements on The Nasdaq Capital Market, among other things, (1) the market value of listed securities must remain equal to or greater than $35 million, the Company must have stockholders' equity of $2.5 million or more, or the Company must have net income from continuing operations of $500,000 in the most recently completed fiscal year and (2) the Company's common stock must have a bid price of at least $1.00 per share.. If the Company does not remain in compliance with the continuing listing requirements, Nasdaq could provide written notice that the Company's common stock and/or warrants are subject to delisting from The Nasdaq Capital Market. In that event, Nasdaq rules permit the Company to appeal such determination to a Nasdaq hearings panel. If our common stock and/or warrants are delisted, it could be more difficult to buy or sell our securities and to obtain accurate quotations, and the price of our common stock and/or warrants could suffer a material decline. In addition, a delisting could impair the Company's ability to raise capital through the public markets, could deter broker-dealers from making a market in or otherwise seeking or generating interest in our securities and might deter certain institutions and persons from investing in our securities at all.. Our business and/or reputation could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist shareholders, and such activism could impact the trading value of our securities.. Certain of our shareholders have made, and may in the future make strategic proposals, suggestions, or requests for changes concerning the operation of our business, our business strategy, corporate governance considerations, or other matters that may not be fully aligned with our own. Responding to actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees. Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, damage to our reputation, and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified directors, personnel and business partners. These actions could also cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility.. One of our largest shareholders has significant influence over our management and affairs and could exercise this influence against other shareholders' best interests.. At February 22, 2018, Mr. Jeffry N. Quinn, our Chairman and one of our largest shareholders, beneficially owned approximately 16.7% of our outstanding shares of common stock, and our other executive officers and directors collectively beneficially owned an additional 2.6% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, pursuant to our bylaws and applicable laws and regulations, Mr. Quinn and our other executive officers and directors are able to exercise significant. 23. influence over our company, including, but not limited to, any shareholder approvals for the election of our directors and, indirectly, the selection of our senior management, the amount of dividend payments, if any, our annual budget, increases or decreases in our share capital, new securities issuance, mergers and acquisitions and any amendments to our bylaws. Furthermore, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which could decrease the market price of our shares.. A significant number of additional shares of our common stock may be issued upon the exercise or conversion of existing securities, which issuances would substantially dilute existing shareholders and may depress the market price of our common stock.. As of February 22, 2018, there were 27,374,458 shares of our common stock outstanding. In addition, (i) 13,993,773 shares of common stock can be issued upon the exercise of outstanding warrants, (ii) 4,438,327 shares of common stock can be issued upon conversion of our Series A Preferred Stock, which includes 1,391,723 shares of common stock potentially issuable upon conversion of additional shares of Series A Preferred Stock received as dividends over the next five years and assumes that the conversion ratio is not adjusted, and (iii) 2,703,114 shares of common stock are available for future issuance under our 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan.  From time to time, the Company may seek to obtain Board of Directors approval for additional omnibus incentive plans that would allow for additional future issuances of common stock. The issuance of shares of common stock would substantially dilute the proportionate ownership and voting power of existing security holders, and their issuance, or the possibility of their issuance, may depress the market price of our common stock.. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our Shareholder Rights Agreement, the increased conversion rate triggered by a \"fundamental change\", as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt.. The Company's second amended and restated certificate of incorporation (the \"certificate of incorporation\") and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include:. • no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority shareholders to elect director candidates;. • the exclusive right of our Board of Directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board of Directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents shareholders from being able to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors;. • the ability of our Board of Directors to determine whether to issue shares of our preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without shareholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer;. • a prohibition on shareholder action by written consent, which forces shareholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our shareholders;. • the requirement that an annual meeting of shareholders may be called only by the chairman of the Board of Directors, the chief executive officer, or the Board of Directors, which may delay the ability of our shareholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors;. • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers;. • controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of shareholder meetings;. • providing that directors may be removed prior to the expiration of their terms by shareholders only for cause; and. • advance notice procedures that shareholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our Board of Directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a shareholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company.. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of the Company or changes in our Board of Directors and management.. The Company's Board of Directors adopted a Shareholder Rights Agreement on September 12, 2016 that, in general terms, works by imposing a significant penalty upon any person or group which acquires 30% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock without the approval of the Company's Board of Directors.  The existence of this Shareholder Rights Agreement could discourage a potential acquirer, including potential acquirers that otherwise seek a transaction with us that would be attractive.  In addition, the increased conversion rate of the Series A Preferred Stock into shares of our common. 24. stock that would be triggered by a \"fundamental change\" (as defined in the Certificate of Designations, Preferences, Rights and Limitations of the Series A Preferred Stock (the \"Certificate of Designations\")) could also discourage a potential acquirer.. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents some shareholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock.. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, Certificate of Designations or Delaware law, as well as our Shareholder Rights Agreement, that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our security holders to receive a premium for their securities and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our securities.. Our only significant asset is our indirect ownership of Jason Incorporated and such ownership may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans to enable us to pay any dividends on our common stock or preferred stock or satisfy our other financial obligations.. As of February 22, 2018, we have no direct operations and no significant assets other than the indirect ownership of Jason Incorporated. We will depend on Jason Incorporated for distributions, loans and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations, including our expenses as a publicly traded company, and to pay any dividends with respect to our preferred stock and common stock. Legal and contractual restrictions in agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities and future indebtedness of Jason Incorporated, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of Jason Incorporated, and the fact that we may be required to obtain the consent from the other shareholders of Jason Incorporated, may limit our ability to obtain cash from Jason Incorporated. The earnings from, or other available assets of, Jason Incorporated may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans to enable us to pay any dividends on our common stock or satisfy its other financial obligations. In addition, the terms of our Series A Preferred Stock may from time to time prevent us from paying cash dividends on our common stock.. Series A Preferred Stock Risk Factors. We are not obligated to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock if prohibited by law; the terms of our financing agreements may limit our ability to pay such dividends; and we will not be able to pay cash dividends if we have insufficient cash to do so.. Under Delaware law, dividends on capital stock may only be paid from \"surplus\" or, if there is no \"surplus,\" from the corporation's net profits for the then-current or the preceding fiscal year. Unless we operate profitably, our ability to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock would require the availability of adequate \"surplus,\" which is defined as the excess, if any, of our net assets (total assets less total liabilities) over our capital.. Financing agreements, whether ours or those of our subsidiaries and whether in place now or in the future, may contain restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock, including the Series A Preferred Stock. These limitations may cause us to be unable to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock unless we can refinance amounts outstanding under those agreements. Since we are not obligated to declare or pay cash dividends, we do not intend to do so to the extent we are restricted by any of our financing agreements.. The dividends payable by us on the Series A Preferred Stock may exceed our current and accumulated earnings and profits, as calculated for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If that occurs, it will result in the amount of the dividends that exceed such earnings and profits being treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes first as a return of capital to the extent of the beneficial owner's adjusted tax basis in the Series A Preferred Stock, and the excess, if any, over such adjusted tax basis as capital gain. Such treatment will generally be unfavorable for corporate beneficial owners and may also be unfavorable to certain other beneficial owners.. Further, even if adequate surplus is available to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock, we may not have sufficient cash to pay cash dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. Even if we do have sufficient cash to pay dividends, our capital allocation strategy may result in the Company electing to pay dividends in additional shares of Series A Preferred Stock.  We have in the past, and may elect in the future, to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock in shares of additional Series A Preferred Stock; however, our ability to pay dividends in shares of our Series A Preferred Stock may be limited by the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock we are authorized to issue under our certificate of incorporation. As of January 1, 2018 we had issued 49,665 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock out of 100,000 authorized shares.. 25. The Series A Preferred Stock does not have an established trading market, which may negatively affect its market value and the ability to transfer or sell such shares.. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock do not have an established trading market, but trade in the over the counter market. Since the Series A Preferred Stock has no stated maturity date, investors seeking liquidity will be limited to selling their shares in the secondary market or converting their shares to common shares and selling in the secondary market. We do not intend to list the Series A Preferred Stock on any securities exchange. We cannot assure you that an active trading market in the Series A Preferred Stock will develop or, even if it develops, we cannot assure you that it will last. In either case, the trading price of the Series A Preferred Stock could be adversely affected and the ability of a holder of Series A Preferred Stock to transfer shares of Series A Preferred Stock will be limited. We are not aware of any entity making a market in the shares of our Series A Preferred Stock which we anticipate may further limit liquidity.. The conversion rate of the Series A Preferred Stock may not be adjusted for all dilutive events.. The number of shares of our common stock that a holder of Series A Preferred Stock is entitled to receive upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock is subject to adjustment for certain specified events, including, but not limited to, the issuance of certain stock dividends on our common stock, the issuance of certain rights or warrants, subdivisions, combinations, distributions of capital stock, indebtedness, or assets, cash dividends and certain issuer tender or exchange offers, as set forth in the Certificate of Designations. However, the conversion rate may not be adjusted for other events, such as the exercise of stock options or other equity awards held by our employees or offerings of our common stock or securities convertible into common stock (other than those set forth in the Certificate of Designations) for cash or in connection with acquisitions, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, if any of these other events adversely affects the market price of our common stock, we expect it to also adversely affect the market price of our Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, the terms of our Series A Preferred Stock do not restrict our ability to offer common stock or securities convertible into common stock in the future or to engage in other transactions that could dilute our common stock. We have no obligation to consider the interests of the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock in engaging in any such offering or transaction. If we issue additional shares of common stock, those issuances may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and, in turn, those issuances may adversely affect the trading price of the Series A Preferred Stock.. Series A Preferred Stock holders may be adversely affected if a \"fundamental change\" occurs. If a \"fundamental change\" (as defined in the Certificate of Designations) occurs, we will under certain circumstances increase the conversion rate by a number of additional shares of our common stock for shares of Series A Preferred Stock converted in connection with such fundamental change as described in the Certificate of Designations. While this feature is designed to, among other things, compensate holders of Series A Preferred Stock for lost option time value of their shares of Series A Preferred Stock as a result of the fundamental change, it may not adequately compensate holders of Series A Preferred Stock for their loss as a result of such transaction. In addition, the conversion rate as adjusted will not exceed the $1,000 liquidation preference, divided by 66 2/3% of $10.49, the closing sale price of our common stock on June 30, 2014.  However, if the adjustment is based on an amount per share that is less than the floor of 66 2/3% of $10.49, holders will likely receive a number of shares of common stock worth less than the $1,000 liquidation preference per share of Series A Preferred Stock, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock will have no claim against the Company for the difference between the value of the consideration received upon a conversion in connection with a fundamental change and the $1,000 liquidation preference per share of Series A Preferred Stock, plus any accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon.. These provisions will not afford protection to holders of Series A Preferred Stock in the event of other transactions that could adversely affect the value of the Series A Preferred Stock. For example, transactions such as leveraged recapitalizations, refinancings, restructurings, or acquisitions initiated by us may not constitute a fundamental change. In the event of any such transaction, holders would not have the protection afforded by the provisions applicable to a fundamental change even though each of these transactions could increase the amount of our indebtedness, or otherwise adversely affect our capital structure or any credit ratings, thereby adversely affecting the holders of Series A Preferred Stock.. In addition, holders of Series A Preferred Stock will have no additional rights upon a fundamental change, and will have no right not to convert the Series A Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock.. Our obligation to satisfy the additional shares requirement could be considered a penalty, in which case the enforceability thereof would be subject to general principles of reasonableness and equitable remedies.. We have reserved a number of shares of our common stock for issuance upon the conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock equal to the aggregate conversion rate, which, under limited circumstances, is less than the maximum number of shares of common stock that we might be required to issue upon such conversion.. On issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock, we reserved, and are obligated under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock to keep reserved at all times, a number of shares of our common stock equal to the aggregate liquidation preference. 26. divided by the closing sale price of our common stock on the date of the closing of our issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock. This is less than the maximum number of shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock in connection with a fundamental change where we could, depending on the stock price at the time, be required to issue upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock, shares of common stock representing the $1,000 liquidation preference per share divided by  66 2/3% of $10.49, the closing sale price of our common stock on June 30, 2014. In that circumstance, we would not have reserved the full amount of shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock. While we may satisfy our obligation to issue shares upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock by utilizing authorized, unreserved and unissued shares of common stock, if any, or by redesignating reserved shares or purchasing shares in the open market, there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so at that time.. We may issue additional series of preferred stock that rank equally to the Series A Preferred Stock as to dividend payments and liquidation preference and these future issuances may adversely affect the market price for our common stock.. Neither our Certificate of Incorporation nor the Certificate of Designations prohibits us from issuing additional series of preferred stock that would rank equally to the Series A Preferred Stock as to dividend payments and liquidation preference. Our certificate of incorporation provides that we have the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, including up to 100,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock. The issuances of other series of preferred stock could have the effect of reducing the amounts available to the Series A Preferred Stock in the event of our liquidation, winding-up or dissolution. It may also reduce cash dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock if we do not have sufficient funds to pay dividends on all Series A Preferred Stock outstanding and outstanding parity preferred stock.. Additional issuances and sales of preferred stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales could occur, may cause prevailing market prices for our common stock to decline and may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital in the financial markets at times and prices favorable to us.. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have no voting rights except under limited circumstances.. Except with respect to certain material and adverse changes to the Series A Preferred Stock as described in the Certificate of Designations, holders of Series A Preferred Stock do not have voting rights and will have no right to vote for any members of our Board of Directors, except as may be required by Delaware law.. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock may be subject to tax if we make or fail to make certain adjustments to the conversion rate of the Series A Preferred Stock even though the holders of Series A Preferred Stock do not receive a corresponding cash distribution.. The conversion rate of the Series A Preferred Stock is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, including the payment of cash dividends. If the conversion rate is adjusted as a result of a distribution that is taxable to our common shareholders, such as a cash dividend, holders of Series A Preferred Stock may be deemed to have received a dividend subject to U.S. federal income tax without the receipt of any cash. In addition, a failure to adjust (or to adjust adequately) the conversion rate after an event that increases a holder of Series A Preferred Stock's proportionate interest in us could be treated as a deemed taxable dividend to the holder of Series A Preferred Stock. If a \"fundamental change\" (as defined in the Certificate of Designations) occurs, under some circumstances, we will increase the conversion rate for shares of Series A Preferred Stock converted in connection with such fundamental change. Such increase may also be treated as a distribution subject to U.S. federal income tax as a dividend. If a holder of Series A Preferred Stock is a non-U.S. holder, any deemed dividend may be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax at a 30% rate, or such lower rate as may be specified by an applicable treaty, which may be set off against subsequent payments on the Series A Preferred Stock.. Warrants Risk Factors. There is no guarantee that the warrants will ever be in the money, and they may expire worthless and the terms of our warrants may be amended.. The exercise price for our warrants is $12.00 per share. There is no guarantee that the warrants will ever be in the money prior to their expiration, and as such, the warrants may expire worthless.. In addition, the warrant agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us provides that the terms of the warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but requires the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding warrants originally issued as part of units in our initial public offering (the \"Public Warrants\") to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the warrants in a manner adverse to a holder if holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding Public Warrants approve of such amendment. Although our ability to amend the terms of the warrants with the consent of at least 65% of the then outstanding Public Warrants is unlimited, examples of such amendments could be amendments to, among other things, increase the exercise price of the warrants, shorten the exercise period or decrease the number of shares of our common stock purchasable upon exercise of a warrant.. 27. We may redeem the Public Warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to warrantholders, thereby making their warrants worthless.. We have the ability to redeem the outstanding Public Warrants at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration at a price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that (i) the last reported sale price of our common stock equals or exceeds $18.00 per share for any 20 trading days within the 30 trading-day period ending on the third business day before we send the notice of such redemption and (ii) on the date we give notice of redemption and during the entire period thereafter until the time the warrants are redeemed, there is an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 covering the shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of the Public Warrants and a current prospectus relating to them is available. Redemption of the outstanding Public Warrants could force holders of Public Warrants:. • to exercise their warrants and pay the exercise price therefore at a time when it may be disadvantageous for them to do so;. • to sell their warrants at the then-current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold their warrants; or. • to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of their warrants."
