[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  The risks described below are not the only ones we face.  Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations.  Our business could be harmed by any of these risks.  The trading price of our ordinary shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment.  In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.. Risks Related to Xyrem and the Significant Impact of Xyrem Sales. Xyrem is our largest selling product, and our inability to maintain or increase sales of Xyrem would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Xyrem is our largest selling product, and our financial results are significantly influenced by sales of Xyrem, which accounted for 74.1% and 75.0% of our net product sales for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.  Our future plans assume that sales of Xyrem will increase, but we cannot assure you that we can maintain sales of Xyrem at or near current levels, or that Xyrem sales will continue to grow.  We have periodically increased the price of Xyrem, most recently in January 2018, and we cannot assure you that price adjustments we have taken or may take in the future will not negatively affect Xyrem sales volumes.. In addition to other risks described herein, our ability to maintain or increase Xyrem product sales is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, the most important of which are discussed in more detail below, including those related to:. • the potential U.S. introduction of a generic version of Xyrem before the entry dates specified in our settlements with certain abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, filers or on terms that are different from those contemplated by the settlement agreements, as further described below;. 30. Table of Contents. • the potential U.S. introduction of new products that compete with, or otherwise disrupt the market for, Xyrem in the treatment of cataplexy and/or excessive daytime sleepiness, or EDS, in narcolepsy;. • changes to or uncertainties around regulatory restrictions, including, among other things, changes to our Xyrem risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, or REMS, as further described below;. • challenges and potential challenges to our intellectual property around Xyrem, including uncertainty in ongoing ANDA litigation or the possibility of new ANDA filers and challenges;. • any increase in pricing pressure from, changes in policies by, or restrictions on reimbursement imposed by, third party payors;. • changes in healthcare laws and policy, including changes in requirements for patient assistance programs, rebates, reimbursement and coverage by federal healthcare programs, and changes resulting from increased scrutiny on pharmaceutical pricing and REMS programs by government entities;. • operational disruptions at the Xyrem central pharmacy or any failure to comply with our REMS obligations to the satisfaction of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA;. • any supply or manufacturing problems, including any problems with our sole source Xyrem active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, provider;. • continued acceptance of Xyrem by physicians and patients, including as a result of negative publicity that surfaces from time to time;. • changes to our label, including new safety warnings or changes to our boxed warning, that further restrict how we market and sell Xyrem; and. • our U.S.-based API and Xyrem suppliers' ability to obtain sufficient quotas from the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, to satisfy our needs for Xyrem.. These and the other risks described below related to Xyrem product sales and protection of our proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain or increase sales of Xyrem.. If sales of Xyrem were to decline significantly, we might need to reduce our operating expenses or seek to raise additional funds, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects, or we might not be able to acquire, in-license or develop new products in the future to grow our business.. The launch of a generic version of Xyrem or other sodium oxybate products that compete with Xyrem would adversely affect sales of Xyrem.. Although Xyrem is protected by patents covering its manufacture, formulation, distribution system and method of use, nine companies have filed ANDAs with the FDA seeking approval to market a generic version of Xyrem.  We filed patent lawsuits against each of the ANDA filers in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey, or the District Court, asserting that such generic products would violate our patents covering Xyrem.  The most recent ANDA was filed in November 2017, and we filed a patent lawsuit against that filer in the District Court in January 2018.  We do not know whether additional ANDAs have been or will be filed.. We have settled lawsuits against five of the ANDA filers.  On April 5, 2017, we settled all lawsuits against the first filer, Roxane Laboratories, Inc., which was acquired by West-Ward Pharmaceuticals Corp. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC), or West-Ward, granting West-Ward the right to sell an authorized generic version of Xyrem, or AG Product, beginning on January 1, 2023, or earlier under certain circumstances, including circumstances related to the licensing or market entry of another generic sodium oxybate product, a final decision that all unexpired claims of the Xyrem patents are invalid and/or unenforceable, or a substantial reduction in Xyrem net sales over specified periods of time.  We also granted West-Ward a license to launch its own generic sodium oxybate product as early as six months after it has the right to sell the AG Product, unless it elects to continue to sell the AG Product, which it may do for up to a total of five years.  On January 9, 2018, we settled all litigation with Par Pharmaceutical, Inc., or Par, granting Par the right to sell a limited volume of AG Product beginning on July 1, 2023, or earlier under certain circumstances, including acceleration of the West-Ward AG Product launch date.  We also granted Par a license to launch its own generic sodium oxybate product on or after December 31, 2025, or earlier under certain circumstances, including circumstances related to launch of a generic sodium oxybate product by West-Ward or another company under its ANDA.  We have also settled all lawsuits with three of the other ANDA filers, granting each of them a license to launch its own generic sodium oxybate product on or after December 31, 2025, or earlier under certain circumstances, including the launch by West-Ward or another party of a generic sodium oxybate product under its ANDA.  In accordance with legal requirements, we have submitted our Xyrem settlement agreements to the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, for review.. 31. Table of Contents. Patent lawsuits against three of the remaining non-settling ANDA filers have been consolidated as one case and remain pending in the District Court.  Although no trial date has been set, discovery is scheduled to conclude in the third quarter of 2018, and the trial in this consolidated case could occur as early as the third quarter of 2018.  For further description of these settlements and legal proceedings, see \"Legal Proceedings\" in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We cannot predict the timing or outcome of the ANDA litigation proceedings against the remaining non-settling ANDA filers.. Certain ANDA filers filed petitions for inter partes review, or IPR, by the Patent Trial and Appeal Board, or PTAB, of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, with respect to the validity of certain distribution, method of use and formulation patents covering Xyrem.  The PTAB instituted IPR trials with respect to certain of these petitions.  In July 2016, the PTAB issued final decisions that the claims of six patents associated with the Xyrem REMS, or REMS patents, are unpatentable.  In March 2016, the PTAB partially instituted an IPR on three claims of a seventh REMS patent, declining to review 25 of 28 claims, and, in March 2017, the PTAB issued a final decision that the three claims they reviewed are unpatentable.  The July 2016 and March 2017 PTAB decisions are part of a consolidated appeal currently pending before the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, or the Federal Circuit.  If the Federal Circuit upholds the PTAB decisions on appeal, we will not be able to enforce claims the PTAB found unpatentable.  For further description of these legal proceedings, see \"Legal Proceedings\" in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K.  We cannot predict whether additional post-grant patent review challenges will be filed by any of the ANDA filers or any other entity, the outcome of any proceeding, including any appeal, or the impact any IPR or other proceeding might have on ongoing ANDA litigation proceedings or other aspects of our Xyrem business.. In January 2017, the FDA approved West-Ward's ANDA for a generic sodium oxybate product.  The FDA's letter approving West-Ward's ANDA notes that, as the first ANDA applicant, West-Ward is eligible for 180 days of generic drug exclusivity.  West-Ward's ANDA approval also includes a waiver that permits West-Ward to use a separate REMS program from the Xyrem REMS on the condition that the REMS approved with West-Ward's ANDA, or the generic sodium oxybate REMS, be open to all future sponsors of ANDAs or new drug applications, or NDAs, for sodium oxybate products.  In January 2017, the FDA tentatively approved two additional ANDAs for generic sodium oxybate products, and we believe that it is likely that the FDA will approve or tentatively approve additional ANDAs.. The actual timing of any commercial launch of an AG Product or a generic sodium oxybate product is uncertain.  For example, to the extent that one or more of the non-settling ANDA filers continues to litigate our Xyrem patents and obtains a final judicial decision prior to January 1, 2023 that all unexpired claims of the Xyrem patents are invalid and/or unenforceable, any party who has obtained or maintains FDA approval for its generic product and is able to distribute its product through an approved sodium oxybate REMS could potentially enter the market with a generic sodium oxybate product, subject in some cases to West-Ward's right to 180-day exclusivity.  West-Ward's AG Product launch date would be accelerated to approximately the date of that final judicial decision, which would also accelerate the permitted launch of Par's AG Product and could accelerate the launch of other generic sodium oxybate products.. Moreover, subject in some cases to West-Ward's 180-day exclusivity, one or more of the non-settling ANDA filers that obtains or maintains FDA approval for its generic sodium oxybate product and is able to distribute its product through an approved generic sodium oxybate REMS could also launch its generic product in the absence of a final decision that all unexpired claims of the Xyrem patents are invalid and/or unenforceable.  Circumstances that could result in such a launch include, for example, a judicial determination that the introduction of such filer's generic product does not infringe our patents; a judicial determination that Xyrem patents are valid and infringed but that an injunction is not warranted; or a decision by a non-settling ANDA filer, before applicable ongoing patent litigation is concluded, to launch a generic product at risk of being held liable for damages for patent infringement.  It is also possible that we could enter into settlement agreements with one or more ANDA filers that would permit such a filer to enter the market on or prior to the launch date(s) agreed with West-Ward.  In the event of any such launch by another non-settling ANDA filer,  except in limited circumstances related to an \"at risk\" launch, the launch date for West-Ward's AG Product would be accelerated to a date on or prior to the date of such entry, which could lead to acceleration of the other settling filers' launch dates as described above.. Another circumstance that could trigger acceleration of West-Ward's launch date for an AG Product, which would also lead to acceleration of Par's launch date for its AG Product and ultimately could lead to acceleration of the other settling filers' launch dates for their generic sodium oxybate products, is a substantial reduction in Xyrem net sales.  Such a reduction could occur under various circumstances, including if we introduce, or a third party introduces, a product to treat EDS or cataplexy in narcolepsy that substantially erodes Xyrem net sales prior to January 1, 2023.. For example, other companies could develop and launch sodium oxybate or other products that are similar, but not identical, to Xyrem, such as an alternative formulation or a different delivery technology, and seek approval in the U.S. through an NDA approval pathway under Section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, by referencing Xyrem and relying, to some degree, on the FDA's approval of Xyrem and related determinations of safety and efficacy.  Avadel Pharmaceuticals plc, or Avadel, a company that is using its proprietary technology for delivery of a sodium oxybate formulation to eliminate second nighttime dosing for narcolepsy patients, has stated that it is conducting a Phase 3 pivotal trial pursuant to. 32. Table of Contents. an FDA-approved special protocol assessment, and has indicated that it intends to seek approval of its product candidate using a Section 505(b)(2) NDA approval pathway referencing Xyrem.. We are also aware of products being developed by others for use as treatment options in cataplexy and/or EDS in patients with narcolepsy that have different safety profiles and mechanisms of action than Xyrem, including a product to treat adult patients with narcolepsy with or without cataplexy that received marketing approval in Europe in 2016.  While this product is currently not approved by the FDA for marketing in the U.S., the company that has exclusive U.S. commercialization rights to this product has announced that it expects to establish an expanded access program for the product in early 2018 and to submit an NDA to the FDA for the treatment of narcolepsy in adult patients during the first half of 2018.  The receipt of marketing approval and commercialization of this product, Avadel's product or other products that may be approved in the U.S. for the treatment of narcolepsy patients could, depending on the targeted patient population, reduce Xyrem sales, which could have the additional effect of potentially triggering acceleration of market entry of AG Products or other generic sodium oxybate products under our ANDA litigation settlement agreements, as described above and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. After any introduction of a generic product, whether or not it is an AG Product, a significant percentage of the prescriptions written for Xyrem may be filled with the generic product.  Certain U.S. state laws allow for, and in some instances in the absence of specific instructions from the prescribing physician mandate, the dispensing of generic products rather than branded products where a generic version is available.  This would result in reduction in sales of, and revenue from, Xyrem, although we would continue to receive royalty and other revenue based on sales of an AG Product in accordance with the terms of our settlement agreements.  Any ANDA holder launching any AG Product or another generic sodium oxybate product will establish the price of the AG Product and/or its own generic sodium oxybate product.  However, generic competition often results in decreases in the prices at which branded products can be sold, particularly when there is more than one generic product available.. We expect that the launch of any generic sodium oxybate product, including any AG Product, or the approval and launch of other products that compete with Xyrem, would be likely to have a material adverse effect on our sales of Xyrem and on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. For further discussion regarding legal proceedings and settlement agreements related to Xyrem, the risks associated with our ANDA settlement agreements, the approval and tentative approval of ANDAs, the potential launch of AG Products or generic versions of Xyrem, or the approval and launch of other sodium oxybate or other products that compete with Xyrem, as well as other risks and challenges we face with respect to Xyrem, see \"Business - Government Regulation - The Hatch-Waxman Act\" and \"Business - Competition\" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the other risk factors under the heading \"Risks Related to Xyrem and the Significant Impact of Xyrem Sales\" and the risk factors under the headings \"We face substantial competition from other companies, including companies with greater resources, including larger sales organizations and more experience working with large and diverse product portfolios, than we have\" and \"Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property\" in this Part I, Item 1A and \"Legal Proceedings\" in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K.. The distribution and sale of Xyrem are subject to significant regulatory oversight and restrictions and the requirements of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, and these restrictions and requirements, as well as the potential impact of changes to these restrictions and requirements, subject us to increased risks and uncertainties, any of which could negatively impact sales of Xyrem.. The FDA requires that we maintain a REMS for Xyrem to help ensure the safe distribution of Xyrem and minimize the risk of misuse, abuse and diversion of sodium oxybate.  In February 2015, the FDA approved the current Xyrem REMS, which requires, among other things, that Xyrem be distributed through a single pharmacy.  In the FDA's letter approving the Xyrem REMS, the FDA stated that (i) the approval action should not be construed or understood as agreement with what the FDA stated was our position that dispensing through a single pharmacy is the only way to ensure that the benefits of Xyrem outweigh its risks, and that the FDA has continuing concerns that limiting the distribution of Xyrem to one pharmacy imposes burdens on patient access and the healthcare delivery system, and (ii) as with all REMS, the FDA intends to evaluate the Xyrem REMS on an ongoing basis and will require modifications as may be appropriate.  We cannot predict whether the FDA will request, seek to require or ultimately require modifications to, or impose additional requirements on, the Xyrem REMS, including in connection with the submission of applications for new oxybate indications or products, or whether FDA will permit modifications to the Xyrem REMS that we consider warranted in connection with the submission of applications for new oxybate indications or products.  Any modifications required or rejected by the FDA could make it more difficult or expensive for us to distribute Xyrem, make distribution easier for sodium oxybate competitors, impair the safety profile of Xyrem, disrupt continuity of care for Xyrem patients and/or negatively affect sales of Xyrem.. In August 2015, we implemented the current Xyrem REMS, and we have submitted and expect to continue to submit ongoing assessments as set forth in the FDA's Xyrem REMS approval letter.  However, we cannot guarantee that our implementation and ongoing assessments will be satisfactory to the FDA or that the Xyrem REMS will satisfy the FDA's. 33. Table of Contents. expectations in its evaluation of the Xyrem REMS on an ongoing basis.  Any failure to comply with the REMS obligations could result in enforcement action by the FDA; lead to changes in our Xyrem REMS obligations; negatively affect sales of Xyrem; result in additional costs and expenses for us; and/or take a significant amount of time, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. While we have an exclusive agreement with Express Scripts Specialty Distribution Services, Inc., the central pharmacy for Xyrem, through June 2019 (subject to a one-year extension at Jazz's discretion unless either party provides 180 days' notice to the other of its intent to terminate the agreement), if the central pharmacy does not fulfill its contractual obligations to us, fails to meet the requirements of the Xyrem REMS applicable to the central pharmacy, provides timely notice that it wants to terminate our agreement, refuses or fails to adequately serve patients, or fails to promptly and adequately address operational challenges, whether expected or unexpected, the fulfillment of Xyrem prescriptions and our sales would be adversely affected.  If we change to a new central pharmacy, new contracts might be required with government and other insurers who pay for Xyrem, and the terms of any new contracts could be less favorable to us than current agreements.  In addition, any new central pharmacy would need to be registered with the DEA and certified and would also need to implement the particular processes, procedures and activities necessary to distribute Xyrem under the Xyrem REMS.  Transitioning to a new pharmacy could result in product shortages, which would negatively affect sales of Xyrem, result in additional costs and expenses for us and/or take a significant amount of time, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Section 505-1(i)(1) of the FDCA generally provides that (i) an ANDA that references a drug subject to a REMS with elements to assure safe use, or ETASU, is required to have a REMS with the same elements as the reference listed drug, or RLD, and (ii) the ANDA drug and the RLD shall use a single shared system to assure safe use.  However, the FDA may waive this requirement for a single shared system and approve an ANDA with a separate REMS with differing but comparable aspects of ETASU under certain circumstances.  These requirements do not apply to an application submitted under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA, even if that application references a drug subject to a REMS with ETASU.. In January 2017, the FDA announced approval of the West-Ward ANDA and waived the shared REMS requirement.  The FDA's waiver of the shared REMS requirement permits West-Ward to use a separate REMS program from the Xyrem REMS, or the generic sodium oxybate REMS, on the condition that the generic sodium oxybate REMS be open to all future sponsors of ANDAs or NDAs for sodium oxybate products.  This could potentially include future sodium oxybate products approved under Section 505(b)(2).  We cannot predict whether a company marketing a sodium oxybate product approved under Section 505(b)(2) would be required or permitted to distribute its product through the generic sodium oxybate REMS or a separate REMS.  In connection with the waiver, FDA issued a statement that it considers the generic sodium oxybate REMS to have the same ETASU as the Xyrem REMS and operationalizes those elements in a comparable manner to achieve the same level of safety as the Xyrem REMS.  We were not involved in development of the generic sodium oxybate REMS and were not consulted regarding any features of this REMS.  A sodium oxybate distribution system that is less restrictive than the Xyrem REMS, such as the generic sodium oxybate REMS, which provides that generic sodium oxybate products could be distributed through multiple pharmacies, could increase the risks associated with sodium oxybate distribution.  Any negative outcomes, including risks to the public, caused by or otherwise related to a separate sodium oxybate REMS, could have a significant negative impact in terms of product liability, public acceptance of Xyrem as a treatment for EDS and cataplexy in narcolepsy, and prescribers' willingness to prescribe, and patients' willingness to take, Xyrem, as patients, consumers and others may not differentiate generic sodium oxybate from Xyrem or differentiate between the different REMS programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our Xyrem business.. We may face pressure to modify the Xyrem REMS or to license or share intellectual property pertinent to the Xyrem REMS, including proprietary data required for the safe distribution of sodium oxybate, in connection with the FDA's approval of the generic sodium oxybate REMS or otherwise.  Our settlement agreements with certain of the ANDA filers do not directly impact the FDA's waiver of the single shared system REMS requirement, any other ANDA filer's ability to develop and implement the generic sodium oxybate REMS for its generic sodium oxybate product or our ability to take any action with respect to the generic sodium oxybate REMS.  We cannot predict the outcome or impact on our business of any future action that we may take with respect to the FDA's waiver of the single shared system REMS requirement, its approval and tentative approval of generic versions of Xyrem or the consequences of distribution of sodium oxybate through the generic sodium oxybate REMS approved by the FDA or another separate REMS.. In September 2016, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary, submitted a Citizen Petition to the FDA requesting that, for safety reasons, the FDA refuse to approve any sodium oxybate ANDA with a proposed package insert or REMS that omits the portions of the Xyrem package insert and the Xyrem REMS that instruct prescribers on adjusting the dose of the product when it is co-administered with divalproex sodium (also known as valproate or valproic acid).  In January 2017, the FDA granted the Citizen Petition with respect to the Xyrem package insert.  The FDA concluded that it will not approve any sodium oxybate ANDA referencing Xyrem that does not include in its package insert the portions of the currently approved Xyrem package insert related to the drug-drug interaction, or DDI, with divalproex sodium.  Our Xyrem DDI patents cover. 34. Table of Contents. these instructions on the Xyrem package insert and Xyrem REMS.  We cannot predict whether one or more of the non-settling ANDA filers, or a company that files a Section 505(b)(2) application for a drug referencing Xyrem, may pursue regulatory strategies to avoid infringing our method of administration patents notwithstanding the FDA's response to the Citizen Petition, or whether any such strategy would be successful.  Likewise, we cannot predict whether we will be able to maintain the validity of any of our patents or will otherwise obtain a judicial determination that a generic or other sodium oxybate product, its package insert or the generic sodium oxybate REMS or another separate REMS will infringe any of our patents or, if we prevail in proving infringement, whether a court will grant an injunction that prevents any non-settling ANDA filer or other company introducing a different sodium oxybate product from marketing its product, or instead require that party to pay damages in the form of lost profits or a reasonable royalty.. For a description of the foregoing matters, see \"Business-Government Regulation-The Hatch-Waxman Act\" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the risk factors under the headings \"The launch of a generic version of Xyrem or other sodium oxybate products that compete with Xyrem would adversely affect sales of Xyrem\" and \"Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property\" in this Part I, Item 1A.. REMS and the improper use of REMS as a means of improperly blocking or delaying competition for branded pharmaceutical products have increasingly drawn public scrutiny from Congress, the FTC and the FDA.  Congress, for example, has introduced proposed legislation aimed at preventing companies from using REMS and other restricted distribution programs as a means to deny potential competitors access to product samples needed for bioequivalence testing.  The FDA has stated that it will seek to coordinate with the FTC in identifying and publicizing practices the FTC finds to be anticompetitive and has further stated that the FDA has concerns related to the role of REMS programs in delaying approval of generic products.  It is possible that the FTC, the FDA, other governmental authorities or other third parties could claim that, or launch an investigation into whether, we are using the Xyrem REMS in an anticompetitive manner (including in light of the FDA's statement in the Xyrem REMS approval letter that the Xyrem REMS could be used in an anticompetitive manner inconsistent with applicable provisions of the FDCA) or have engaged in other anticompetitive practices.  The FDCA further states that a REMS ETASU shall not be used by an NDA holder to block or delay generic drugs or drugs covered by an application under Section 505(b)(2) from entering the market.  Several of the ANDA applicants have asserted that our REMS patents should not have been listed in the FDA's publication \"Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations,\" or the Orange Book, and that the Xyrem REMS is blocking competition.  We cannot predict the outcome of any potential government investigation of these claims or the impact of any similar claims that may be made in the future.. The FDA has required that Xyrem's labeling include a boxed warning regarding the risk of central nervous system depression and misuse and abuse.  A boxed warning is the strongest type of warning that the FDA can require for a drug product and warns prescribers that the drug carries a significant risk of serious or even life-threatening adverse effects.  A boxed warning also means, among other things, that the product cannot be advertised through reminder ads, or ads that mention the pharmaceutical brand name but not the indication or medical condition it treats.  Our Xyrem REMS includes unique features that provide more extensive information about adverse events, including deaths, than is generally available for other products that are not subject to similar REMS requirements.  As required by the FDA and other regulatory agencies, the adverse event information that we collect for Xyrem is regularly reported to the FDA and could result in the FDA requiring changes to Xyrem labeling, including additional warnings or boxed warnings, or requiring us to take other actions that could have an adverse effect on patient and prescriber acceptance of Xyrem.. Any failure to demonstrate our substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements to the satisfaction of the FDA or any other regulatory authority could result in such regulatory authorities taking actions in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on Xyrem sales and therefore on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.  For more information, see the risk factor under the heading \"We are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to commercialize our products\" in this Part I, Item 1A.. Risks Related to Our Business. While Xyrem remains our largest product, our success also depends on our ability to effectively commercialize our other products and, in the case of our product candidates, our ability to obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. and Europe and, if approved, to successfully launch and commercialize those product candidates.  Our inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. In addition to Xyrem, we are commercializing a portfolio of products, including our other lead marketed products, Erwinaze, Defitelio and Vyxeos, and we are making significant investments in solriamfetol and other product candidates that are currently not approved as marketed products in any jurisdiction.. 35. Table of Contents. Erwinaze. Erwinaze (called Erwinase in markets outside the U.S.), a biologic product, is used in conjunction with chemotherapy to treat patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, or ALL, with hypersensitivity to E. coli-derived asparaginase.  Erwinaze was approved by the FDA under a biologics license application, or BLA, and was launched in the U.S. in November 2011.  It is also being sold under marketing authorizations, named patient programs, temporary use authorizations or similar authorizations in multiple countries in Europe and elsewhere.  Erwinaze is licensed from, and manufactured by, a single source, Porton Biopharma Limited, or PBL, a company that is wholly owned by the UK Secretary of State for Health.  Our agreement with PBL, including our license, expires in December 2020, subject to five-year extensions unless terminated by either party in writing by December 2018.  We cannot predict whether the term of the agreement will be extended or, if extended, the terms of any such extension.  If the agreement is terminated, we will lose our license to sell Erwinaze in any market after December 2020, except under specified terms for a post-termination transition period.. Our ability to successfully and sustainably grow sales of Erwinaze is subject to a number of challenges, including the limited population of patients with ALL and the incidence of hypersensitivity reactions to E. coli-derived asparaginase within that population and our need to apply for and receive marketing authorizations, through the European Union's, or EU's, mutual recognition procedure or otherwise in certain additional countries if we decide to launch promotional efforts in those countries.  Another significant challenge to our ability to maintain current sales levels and to increase sales is our extremely limited inventory of Erwinaze, past and continuing supply disruptions and our need to minimize or avoid additional supply disruptions due to capacity constraints, production delays, quality or regulatory challenges and other manufacturing difficulties.  See the discussion regarding Erwinaze supply issues in the risk factor under the heading \"The loss of our single source suppliers, delays or problems in the supply of our products for commercial sale or our product candidates for use in our clinical trials, or our or our suppliers' failure to comply with manufacturing regulations, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects\" in this Part I, Item 1A.. We also face numerous other risks that may impact Erwinaze sales, including regulatory risks, the development of new asparaginase treatments or treatment protocols that could reduce the rate of hypersensitivity in patients with ALL, the development of new treatment protocols for ALL that may not include asparaginase-containing regimens, difficulties with obtaining and maintaining favorable pricing and reimbursement arrangements, and potential competition from future biosimilar products.  In addition, if we fail to comply with our obligations under our agreement with the licensor and supplier of Erwinaze or lose rights to Erwinaze, including if our agreement terminates at the end of its current term in December 2020, or if we otherwise fail to maintain or grow sales of Erwinaze, our growth prospects could be negatively affected.. Defitelio. We made a significant investment in Defitelio in 2014, adding the product to our portfolio as a result of our acquisition of Gentium S.r.l, or Gentium, which we refer to as the Gentium Acquisition, and then securing worldwide rights to the product by acquiring rights to defibrotide in the Americas in August 2014.  We began to commercialize Defitelio in certain European countries in 2014.  On March 30, 2016, the FDA approved our NDA for Defitelio for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with hepatic veno-occlusive disease, or VOD, also known as sinusoidal obstruction syndrome, or SOS, with renal or pulmonary dysfunction following hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, or HSCT.  We launched Defitelio in the U.S. shortly after FDA approval.. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from this investment is subject to risks and uncertainties, including:. • the continued acceptance of Defitelio in the U.S. by hospital pharmacy and therapeutics committees and the continued availability of favorable pricing and adequate coverage and reimbursement by government programs and third party payors;. • the limited experience of, and need to educate, U.S. physicians in recognizing, diagnosing and treating VOD, particularly in adults;. • the possibility that physicians recognizing VOD symptoms may not initiate or may delay initiation of treatment while waiting for those symptoms to improve, or may terminate treatment before the end of the recommended dosing schedule;. • our ability to successfully maintain or grow sales of Defitelio in Europe and other non-U.S. countries;. • delays or problems in the supply or manufacture of the product;. • the limited size of the population of VOD patients who are indicated for treatment with Defitelio (particularly if changes in HSCT treatment protocols reduce the incidence of VOD diagnosis);. • our ability to meet the post-marketing commitments and requirements imposed by the FDA in connection with its approval of our NDA for Defitelio; and. • our ability to obtain marketing approval in other countries and to develop the product for additional indications.. The process of maintaining pricing and reimbursement approvals is complex and varies from country to country.  Many European countries periodically review their reimbursement classes, which could have an adverse impact on the reimbursement. 36. Table of Contents. status of Defitelio.  We cannot predict the outcome of any periodic reviews required to maintain pricing and reimbursement approvals across Europe.  In addition, orphan products that have a significant impact on patient survival, such as Defitelio, may be budgeted on a local rather than national level.  The balance of all of these factors will determine our ability to maintain favorable pricing and reimbursement approvals in Europe.  Furthermore, after initial pricing and reimbursement approvals, reductions in prices and changes in reimbursement levels can be triggered by multiple factors, including reference pricing systems and publication of discounts by third party payors or authorities in other countries.  In the EU, prices can be reduced further by parallel distribution and parallel trade, or arbitrage between low-priced and high-priced countries.  If any of these events occurs, our anticipated revenue from Defitelio in the EU would be negatively affected.  If we are unable to maintain favorable pricing and reimbursement approvals in countries that represent significant markets, especially where a country's reimbursed price influences other countries, our anticipated revenue from and growth prospects for Defitelio in the EU could be negatively affected.  In addition, our ability to commercialize Defitelio successfully in the U.S. will depend on, among other things, the continued availability of adequate coverage or reimbursement by U.S. government programs and third party payors.. The European Commission, or EC, granted marketing authorization to Defitelio under \"exceptional circumstances\" because it was not possible to obtain complete information about the product due to the rarity of the disease and because ethical considerations prevented conducting a study directly comparing Defitelio with best supportive care or a placebo.  A marketing authorization granted under exceptional circumstances is subject to approval conditions and an annual reassessment of the risk-benefit balance by European Medicines Agency, or EMA.  As a result, if we fail to meet the approval condition for Defitelio established by the EC, which requires that we set up a patient registry to investigate the long-term safety, health outcomes and patterns of utilization of Defitelio during normal use, or if it is determined that the balance of risks and benefits of using Defitelio changes materially, the EMA could vary, suspend or withdraw the marketing authorization for Defitelio.  In addition, the FDA imposed several post-marketing commitments and requirements in connection with its approval of our NDA for Defitelio in March 2016, including the requirement that we conduct a clinical trial to analyze the safety of defibrotide versus best supportive care in the prevention of VOD in adult and pediatric patients.  We may be unable to comply with these or other post-marketing obligations imposed as part of the marketing approvals for Defitelio.  If we fail to meet any of these post-marketing obligations, our sales of and revenues from Defitelio could be materially adversely affected, and our future maintenance and potential growth of the market for this product may be limited.. The size of the population of VOD patients who are indicated for treatment with Defitelio is limited, and changes in HSCT treatment protocols could reduce the incidence of VOD diagnosis.  Changes in treatment protocols that reduce the incidence of VOD diagnosis could adversely affect our anticipated revenues from Defitelio and our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. We are also assessing the potential for approval of defibrotide in other countries and for development of defibrotide in additional indications.  We cannot know when, if ever, defibrotide will be approved in any other country or under what circumstances, and what, if any, additional clinical or other development activities will be required in order to potentially obtain such regulatory approval and the cost associated with such required activities, if any.  If we fail to obtain approval for defibrotide in other countries or for new indications, or if any future approvals we receive are for narrower indications than we expect, our anticipated revenue from defibrotide and our growth prospects would be negatively affected.. Due to the limited amount of historical sales data from commercialization of Defitelio, our Defitelio sales will be difficult to predict from period to period.  As a result, Defitelio sales results or trends in any period are not necessarily indicative of future performance.  If sales of Defitelio do not reach the levels we expect, our anticipated revenue from Defitelio would be negatively affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Vyxeos. We made a significant investment in Vyxeos through the acquisition of Celator Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Celator, which we refer to as the Celator Acquisition.  Vyxeos is the first injectable fixed ratio, drug delivery combination oncology product based on our CombiPlex technology platform approved by the FDA and that we expect to be considered for approval by the EMA.  In August 2017, the FDA approved our NDA for Vyxeos for the treatment of adults with newly-diagnosed therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia, or t-AML, or AML with myelodysplasia-related changes, or AML-MRC.  We launched and began shipping Vyxeos in the U.S. in August 2017, and our U.S. commercial launch is still at an early stage.. We submitted a marketing authorization application, or MAA, for Vyxeos in Europe for the treatment of t-AML or AML-MRC in the fourth quarter of 2017.  We cannot predict whether we will be able to obtain approval in Europe in a timely manner, or at all.. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from our investment in Vyxeos is subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including:. • our ability to differentiate Vyxeos from other liposomal chemotherapies and generically available chemotherapy combinations with which physicians and treatment centers are more familiar;. 37. Table of Contents. • delays or problems in the supply or manufacture of the product, including the ability of the third parties upon which we rely to manufacture Vyxeos and its APIs to manufacture sufficient quantities in accordance with applicable specifications;. • the need to establish pricing and reimbursement support for Vyxeos in the U.S. and in other countries;. • the acceptance of Vyxeos in the U.S. and other countries by hospital pharmacy and therapeutics committees and the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement by government programs and third party payors;. • the approval and use of new and novel compounds in AML that are only approved for use in combination with other agents and that have not been tested in combination with Vyxeos; and. • the limited size of the population of high-risk AML patients who may potentially be indicated for treatment with Vyxeos, particularly given the ongoing clinical trials by other companies with the same patient population.. Due to the lack of historical sales data from commercialization of Vyxeos, our Vyxeos sales will be difficult to predict from period to period.  As a result, Vyxeos sales results or trends in any period may not necessarily be indicative of future performance.  If sales of Vyxeos do not reach the levels we expect, or we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for Vyxeos in Europe in a timely manner, or at all, our anticipated revenue from the product will be negatively affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. In addition, the FDA imposed two post-marketing requirements in connection with its approval of our NDA for Vyxeos, including the requirement that we conduct a safety study to characterize infusion-related reactions in patients treated with Vyxeos and a clinical trial to determine dosing to minimize toxicity in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment.  In the event that we are unable to comply with these or other post-marketing obligations imposed as part of the marketing approval for Vyxeos, our sales of and revenues from Vyxeos could be materially adversely affected, and our future maintenance and potential growth of the market for this product may be limited.. If we fail to maintain or increase revenue from sales of Erwinaze, Defitelio and Vyxeos, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be materially adversely affected.  In addition to the specific risks described above, sales volumes and revenues from each of these products could be negatively affected by other risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this Part I, Item 1A.. In addition, if we fail to obtain approvals for certain of our marketed products in new indications or formulations, we will be unable to commercialize our products in new indications or formulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Solriamfetol. In 2017, we announced positive efficacy results from our two Phase 3 clinical trials of solriamfetol, a late-stage investigational compound being developed for potential treatment of excessive sleepiness, or ES, in patients with obstructive sleep apnea, or OSA, and from our Phase 3 clinical trial of solriamfetol in patients with narcolepsy.  We submitted an NDA to the FDA in the fourth quarter of 2017 to seek approval for solriamfetol in the treatment of ES associated with OSA and ES associated with narcolepsy.  We cannot predict whether our NDA will be approved by the FDA in a timely manner, or at all.  Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from an approved solriamfetol product is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, the outcome of DEA scheduling review, which will need to be completed after NDA approval, if any, market acceptance for an approved solriamfetol product, potential competition and the availability of adequate pricing, coverage and reimbursement by government programs and third party payors.. Other Product Candidates. In furtherance of our growth strategy, we have made significant investments in a number of other product candidates, including ongoing development activities for two other product candidates in our sleep therapeutic area.  For JZP-507, an investigational new drug candidate with a 50% reduction in sodium content compared to Xyrem that in a pilot study has demonstrated bioequivalence to Xyrem, we expect to be ready to submit an NDA to the FDA as early as mid-2018 and, subject to the results of an ongoing Phase 3 trial, we expect to submit an NDA to the FDA in 2019 for JZP-258, an investigational new drug candidate that contains 90% less sodium than Xyrem.. Any failure or delay in completing necessary clinical trials and conducting other activities, including chemistry, manufacturing and controls, or CMC, activities, that are required to complete our planned NDA submissions and obtain regulatory approval could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.  See the discussion under the heading \"Conducting clinical trials is costly and time-consuming, and the outcomes are uncertain.  A failure to prove that our product candidates are safe and effective in clinical trials, or to generate data in clinical trials to support expansion of the therapeutic uses for our existing products, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects\" in this Part I, Item 1A for a discussion of risks related to our clinical trials of solriamfetol and other product candidates.  See also the discussions under the headings \"The loss of our single source suppliers, delays or problems in the supply of our products for commercial sale or our product candidates for use in our. 38. Table of Contents. clinical trials, or our or our suppliers' failure to comply with manufacturing regulations, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects\" and \"The regulatory approval process is expensive, time-consuming and uncertain and may prevent us or our partners from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of some or all of our product candidates\" in this Part I, Item 1A.. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates in a timely manner, or at all, or if sales of an approved product do not reach the levels we expect, our anticipated revenue from our product candidates would be negatively affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. The loss of our single source suppliers, delays or problems in the supply of our products for commercial sale or our product candidates for use in our clinical trials, or our or our suppliers' failure to comply with manufacturing regulations, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of process controls required to consistently produce the API and the finished product in sufficient quantities while meeting detailed product specifications on a repeated basis.  We and our manufacturers may encounter difficulties in production, including difficulties with production costs and yields, process controls, quality control and quality assurance, including testing of stability, impurities and impurity levels and other product specifications by validated test methods, and compliance with strictly enforced U.S., state and non-U.S. regulations.  These difficulties can be heightened when we or our suppliers are required to produce finished product at commercial scale or to produce increased quantities to meet growing demand.  In addition, we and our suppliers are subject to the FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, requirements, DEA regulations and other equivalent rules and regulations prescribed by non-U.S. regulatory authorities.  If we or any of our suppliers encounter these or any other manufacturing, quality or compliance difficulties with respect to any of our products, we may be unable to obtain or maintain regulatory approval, or meet commercial demand, for such products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. We received FDA approval of our manufacturing and development facility in Athlone, Ireland in June 2016, and we commenced commercial operations at this facility in the third quarter of 2016.  We are using this facility for the manufacture of Xyrem and development-stage products, including JZP-507 and JZP-258, and we expect to manufacture these products commercially at our Athlone facility should these candidates receive regulatory approval.  However, other than our Athlone facility and our manufacturing plant in Italy where we produce the defibrotide drug substance, we currently do not have our own commercial manufacturing capability for our products, product candidates or their APIs, or packaging capability.  As a result, our ability to develop and supply products in a timely and competitive manner depends primarily on third party suppliers being able to meet our ongoing commercial and clinical trial needs for API, other raw materials, packaging materials and finished products.  In part due to the limited market size for our products and product candidates, we have a single source of supply for most of our marketed products, product candidates and their APIs.  These single source arrangements put us at risk of interruption in supply in the event of manufacturing, quality or compliance difficulties at our suppliers.. Siegfried USA, LLC and its affiliates, or Siegfried, have been our sole supplier of sodium oxybate, the API for Xyrem, since 2012.  Siegfried supplies sodium oxybate to our U.S.-based manufacturer of Xyrem and, through a Siegfried affiliate in Europe, to our Athlone facility.  We expect that Siegfried will continue to be our sole supplier of sodium oxybate for the foreseeable future, and we cannot assure you that Siegfried can or will continue to supply on a timely basis, or at all, sufficient quantities of API to enable the manufacture of the quantities of Xyrem that we need.  Patheon Pharmaceuticals Inc., which we refer to together with its affiliates as Patheon, is our sole U.S.-based manufacturer and supplier of Xyrem.  Although we have commenced manufacturing of Xyrem in our Athlone facility, we expect to rely on Patheon as our U.S.-based supplier of Xyrem for the foreseeable future, and we cannot assure you that Patheon can or will continue to supply on a timely basis, or at all, the quantities of Xyrem that we need from Patheon.. Sodium oxybate is a Schedule I controlled substance in the U.S.  The DEA limits the quantity of Schedule I controlled substances that may be manufactured and procured in the U.S. in any given calendar year through a quota system and, as a result, quotas from the DEA are required to manufacture and procure sodium oxybate in the U.S.  Accordingly, we require DEA quotas for Siegfried in the U.S. to manufacture sodium oxybate and for Patheon, our U.S.-based Xyrem supplier, to procure the sodium oxybate from Siegfried to manufacture and supply us with Xyrem.  Because the DEA typically grants quotas on an annual basis, Siegfried and Patheon are required to request and justify allocation of sufficient annual DEA quotas, as well as any additional DEA quotas necessary if our commercial or clinical requirements exceed the allocated quotas throughout the year.  For the last few years, our suppliers were allocated only a portion of the published annual aggregate quota for the API.  If one or more ANDA filers were to begin manufacturing a generic sodium oxybate product, generic manufacturers would need to obtain a portion of the annual aggregate API quota, which could decrease the DEA quota allocation obtained on our behalf by Siegfried and Patheon.  In the past, we have had to engage in lengthy efforts to obtain the needed quotas after the original annual quotas had first been allocated.  If, in the future, we and our third party suppliers cannot obtain the quotas that are. 39. Table of Contents. needed on a timely basis, or at all, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected.. Erwinaze is licensed from, and manufactured for us by, a single source, PBL, a company that is wholly owned by the UK Secretary of State for Health.  The FDA's approval of the BLA for Erwinaze includes a number of post-marketing commitments related to the manufacture of Erwinaze by PBL.  We cannot predict if or when PBL will comply with its manufacturing-related post-marketing commitments that are part of the BLA approval.  In January 2017, the FDA issued a warning letter to PBL indicating that it was not satisfied with PBL's response to the FDA Form 483 issued to PBL in March 2016 and citing significant violations of cGMP for finished pharmaceuticals and significant deviations from cGMP for APIs.  In March 2017, PBL filed a response to the warning letter with the FDA.  PBL continues to address the issues identified by the FDA in the warning letter.  We cannot predict if or when PBL will correct the violations and deviations to the satisfaction of the FDA or whether the FDA will be satisfied with PBL's response to the warning letter.  Any failure to do so to the satisfaction of the FDA could result in the FDA refusing admission of Erwinaze into the U.S., as well as additional enforcement actions by the FDA and other regulatory entities.. In the United Kingdom, or UK, where PBL's manufacturing facilities are located, PBL is subject to similar inspections conducted by the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, or MHRA.  Following a site inspection of PBL by MHRA in December 2017, MHRA issued an inspection report listing several major findings, including major deficiencies and failures by PBL to comply with cGMP.  In January 2018, PBL filed a response to the report with the MHRA.  We cannot predict if or when PBL will correct the violations and deviations to the satisfaction of MHRA or whether the MHRA will be satisfied with PBL's response to the inspection report.  Any failure by PBL to do so to the satisfaction of the MHRA could result in an enforcement action by the MHRA.. Inability to comply with regulatory requirements of the FDA, the MHRA or other competent authorities in the EU member states in which Erwinaze is subject to marketing authorization could adversely affect Erwinaze supply, particularly in light of our extremely limited product inventory, and could result in: enforcement actions by the FDA, MHRA or other EU member states' competent authorities (including the issuance of the local equivalents of FDA Form 483s or warning letters); the approval of the FDA or other competent authorities being suspended, varied, or revoked; product release being delayed or suspended; or product being seized or recalled.  Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our sales of, and revenues from, Erwinaze and limit our future maintenance and potential growth of the market for this product.  In addition, if the FDA or any non-U.S. regulatory authority mandates any changes to the specifications for Erwinaze, we may face challenges having product produced to meet such specifications, and our supplier may increase its price to supply Erwinaze meeting such specifications, which may result in additional costs to us or a delay in supply and may decrease any profit we would otherwise achieve with Erwinaze.. Moreover, the current manufacturing capacity for Erwinaze is completely absorbed by demand for the product.  As a consequence of constrained manufacturing capacity, we have had an extremely limited or no ability to build product inventory levels that can be used to absorb supply disruptions resulting from quality, regulatory or other issues.  We have experienced product quality, manufacturing and inventory challenges that have resulted, and may continue to result from time to time, in disruptions in our ability to supply certain markets and have caused, and may in the future cause, us to implement batch-specific, modified product use instructions.  Most recently, we have been experiencing temporary supply disruptions in the first quarter of 2018 in the U.S. and other countries.  We cannot predict whether the required remediation activities in connection with the January 2017 FDA warning letter or the December 2017 MHRA report will further strain manufacturing capacity and adversely affect Erwinaze supply, particularly in light of our extremely limited product inventory.  As capacity constraints and supply disruptions continue, whether as a result of continued quality, manufacturing or regulatory issues or otherwise, we will be unable to build a desired excess level of product inventory, our ability to supply the market may continue to be compromised and physicians' decisions to use Erwinaze have been, and may continue to be, negatively impacted.. If quality, manufacturing or regulatory issues persist and result in a disruption to supply or capacity constraints, under our agreement with PBL, we do not have the right to engage a backup supplier for Erwinaze except in very limited circumstances, such as following the termination of the agreement by us due to the uncured material breach or the cessation of manufacturing by our supplier.  If we are required to engage a backup or alternative supplier, the transfer of technical expertise and manufacturing process to the backup or alternative supplier would be difficult, costly and time-consuming, might not be successful and would increase the likelihood of a delay or disruption in manufacturing or a shortage of supply of Erwinaze.  If we fail to obtain a sufficient supply of Erwinaze, our sales of and revenues from Erwinaze, our future maintenance and potential growth of the market for this product, and/or our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be materially adversely affected.. We are our sole supplier of, and we believe that we are currently the sole worldwide producer of, the defibrotide drug compound.  We manufacture the defibrotide compound in a single facility located in Villa Guardia, near Como, Italy.  Patheon currently processes the defibrotide compound into its finished vial form, and Patheon is the sole provider of our commercial and clinical supply of Defitelio.  If Patheon does not or is not able to supply us with Defitelio for any reason, it may take time. 40. Table of Contents. and resources to implement and execute the necessary technology transfer to another processor, and such delay could negatively impact our anticipated revenues from Defitelio and could potentially cause us to breach contractual obligations with customers or to violate local laws requiring us to deliver the product to those in need.. In addition, the API in Defitelio is derived from porcine DNA.  If our porcine DNA supplier experiences safety or other issues that impact its ability to supply porcine materials to us as needed, we may not be able to find alternative suppliers in a timely fashion, which could negatively impact our supply of Defitelio.. Vyxeos is manufactured using our CombiPlex technology platform.  CombiPlex products represent formulations with increased manufacturing complexities associated with producing drug delivery vehicles encapsulating two or more drugs that are maintained at a fixed ratio and, in the case of Vyxeos, two drugs that are co-encapsulated in a freeze-dried format.  Vyxeos is manufactured by Baxter Oncology GmbH, or Baxter, which is a sole source supplier from a single site location.  Baxter manufactured batches that were used in the Phase 3 clinical trial for Vyxeos, but Baxter has since experienced batch failures due to mechanical, component and other issues.  While other contract manufacturers may be able to produce Vyxeos, the proprietary technology that supports the manufacture of Vyxeos is not easily transferable.  Consequently, engaging an alternate manufacturer may be difficult, costly and time-consuming.  If Baxter does not deliver sufficient quantities of Vyxeos in accordance with applicable specifications on a timely basis, whether due to batch failures or other delays, our ability to successfully commercialize Vyxeos and generate sales of this product at the level we expect could be materially and adversely affected.  See also the discussion under the heading \"While Xyrem remains our largest product, our success also depends on our ability to effectively commercialize our other products and, in the case of our product candidates, our ability to obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. and Europe and, if approved, to successfully launch and commercialize those product candidates.  Our inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects\" in this Part I, Item 1A.. In addition, while the APIs in Vyxeos, daunorubicin and cytarabine, are available from a number of suppliers, certain suppliers have received warning letters from the FDA.  As a result, we have qualified other suppliers for each API, and we provided the qualification data to the FDA.  If the FDA restricts importation of API from either supplier, and we are unable to qualify API from additional suppliers in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to successfully commercialize Vyxeos and generate sales of this product at the level we expect could be materially and adversely affected.. To conduct our ongoing and any future clinical trials of, complete marketing authorization submissions for, and potentially launch our other product candidates, we need to have sufficient quantities of product manufactured.  For example, Siegfried has supplied us with both the API and finished product for our development activities involving solriamfetol, including our Phase 3 clinical trials.  We expect that Siegfried will manufacture and supply solriamfetol drug product for commercial sale if solriamfetol receives regulatory approval and that, in the short term, Siegfried will be the sole provider of our commercial supply of solriamfetol.  If Siegfried does not or is not able to supply us with solriamfetol for any reason, it may take time and resources to implement and execute the necessary technology transfer to another provider, and such delay could negatively impact our anticipated revenues from solriamfetol.  If Siegfried does not or is not able to supply us with solriamfetol for any reason, including due to a failure to obtain any necessary DEA quotas, it may take time and resources to implement and execute the necessary technology transfer to another provider, and such delay could negatively impact our anticipated revenues from solriamfetol.. JZP-507 and JZP-258 are currently manufactured at our Athlone facility, and we expect to manufacture these products commercially at our Athlone facility should these candidates receive regulatory approval.  However, there can be no assurance that we or our suppliers will be able to produce sufficient supplies of our product candidates in a timely manner or in accordance with applicable specifications.  In addition, to obtain FDA approval of any product candidate, we or our supplier or suppliers for that product must obtain approval by the FDA to manufacture and supply product, in some cases based on qualification data provided to the FDA as part of our NDA submission.  Any delay in generating, or failure to generate, data required in connection with submission of the CMC portions of any NDA could negatively impact our ability to meet our anticipated submission dates, and therefore our anticipated timing for obtaining FDA approval, or our ability to obtain FDA approval at all.  In addition, any failure of us or a supplier to obtain approval by the FDA to manufacture and supply product or any delay in receiving, or failure to receive, adequate supplies of a product on a timely basis or in accordance with applicable specifications could negatively impact our ability to successfully launch and commercialize products and generate sales of products at the levels we expect.. Failure by us or our third party suppliers to comply with regulatory requirements could adversely affect our or their ability to supply products or ingredients.  All facilities and manufacturing techniques used for the manufacture of pharmaceutical products must be operated in conformity with applicable cGMP requirements.  DEA regulations also govern U.S. facilities where controlled substances such as sodium oxybate are manufactured.  Our manufacturing facilities and manufacturing facilities of our suppliers have been and are subject to periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the EMA, the DEA, the Italian Health Authority and other regulatory authorities, including state authorities and similar authorities in other jurisdictions, to confirm compliance with cGMP and other requirements.  We and our third party suppliers must. 41. Table of Contents. continually expend time, money and effort in production, record keeping and quality assurance and control to ensure that our products and product candidates meet applicable specifications and other requirements for product safety, efficacy and quality.  Failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements subjects us and our suppliers to possible legal or regulatory action, including restrictions on supply or shutdown, which may adversely affect our or a supplier's ability to supply the ingredients or finished products we need.  Moreover, our or our third party suppliers' facilities could be damaged by fire, flood, earthquake, power loss, telecommunication and information system failure, terrorism or similar events.  Any of these events could cause a delay or interruption in manufacturing and potentially a supply shortage of our products, which could negatively impact our anticipated revenues.. If, for any reason, our suppliers, including any new suppliers, do not continue to supply us with our products or product candidates in a timely fashion and in compliance with applicable quality and regulatory requirements, or otherwise fail or refuse to comply with their obligations to us under our supply and manufacturing arrangements, we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and their failure to supply us could result in a shortage of our products or product candidates, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. In addition, if one of our suppliers fails or refuses to supply us for any reason, it would take a significant amount of time and expense to qualify a new supplier.  The FDA and similar international regulatory bodies must approve manufacturers of the active and inactive pharmaceutical ingredients and certain packaging materials used in our products.  The loss of one of our suppliers could require us to obtain regulatory clearance in the form of a \"prior approval supplement\" and to incur validation and other costs associated with the transfer of the API or product manufacturing process.  We believe that it could take up to two years, or longer in certain cases, to qualify a new supplier, and we may not be able to obtain APIs or finished products from new suppliers on acceptable terms and at reasonable prices, or at all.  If there are delays in qualifying new suppliers or facilities or a new supplier is unable to obtain a sufficient quota from the DEA, if required, or to otherwise meet FDA or similar international regulatory body's requirements for approval, there could be a shortage of the affected products for the marketplace or for use in clinical studies, or both, particularly since we do not have secondary sources for supply and manufacture of the APIs for our products or backup suppliers for our finished products.. Our ability to develop and deliver products in a timely and competitive manner depends on our third party suppliers being able to continue to meet our ongoing commercial needs.  Any delay in supplying, or failure to supply, products or product candidates by any of our suppliers could result in our inability to meet the commercial demand for our products, or our needs for use in clinical trials, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. The commercial success of our products depends upon their market acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors and the medical community.. If physicians do not prescribe our products, we cannot generate the revenues we anticipate from product sales.  Market acceptance of any of our products by physicians, patients, third party payors and the medical community depends on:. • the clinical indications for which a product is approved and any restrictions placed upon the product in connection with its approval, such as a REMS, patient registry requirements or labeling restrictions;. • the prevalence of the disease or condition for which the product is approved and its diagnosis;. • the severity of side effects;. • acceptance by physicians and patients of each product as a safe and effective treatment;. • the extent to which the product is approved for inclusion on formularies of hospitals and managed care organizations;. • the conditions for reimbursement required by, and appropriate pricing and availability of reimbursement from, third party payors;. • availability of sufficient product inventory to meet demand, particularly with respect to Erwinaze;. • physicians' decisions relating to treatment practices based on availability of product inventory, particularly with respect to Erwinaze;. • perceived advantages over alternative treatments;. • relative convenience and ease of administration;. • with respect to Xyrem, physician and patient assessment of the burdens associated with obtaining or maintaining the certifications required under the Xyrem REMS;. • the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments, including generic products; and. • the availability of financial or other assistance for patients who are uninsured or underinsured.. Because of our dependence upon market acceptance of our products, any adverse publicity associated with harm to patients or other adverse events resulting from the use or misuse of our products or any similar products distributed by other companies, including generic versions of our products, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.  For example, from time to time, there is negative publicity about illicit gamma-hydroxybutyrate, or GHB, and its effects, including with respect to illegal use, overdoses, serious injury and death.  Because sodium oxybate, the API in Xyrem, is a derivative of GHB, Xyrem sometimes also receives negative mention in publicity relating to GHB.  Patients, physicians and regulators may therefore view Xyrem as the same as or similar to illicit GHB.  In. 42. Table of Contents. addition, there are regulators and some law enforcement agencies that oppose the prescription and use of Xyrem generally because of its connection to GHB.  Xyrem's label includes information about adverse events from GHB.  Moreover, a sodium oxybate distribution system that is less restrictive than the Xyrem REMS, such as the generic sodium oxybate REMS approved by the FDA in January 2017, may increase the risks associated with sodium oxybate distribution, as patients, consumers and others may not differentiate generic sodium oxybate from Xyrem or differentiate between the different REMS programs.  Any negative outcomes, including but not limited to risks to the public, caused by or otherwise related to the separate generic sodium oxybate REMS could have a significant negative impact in terms of product liability, goodwill, and prescribers' willingness to prescribe, and patients' willingness to take, Xyrem, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our Xyrem revenues.. In addition, we have periodically increased the price of Xyrem and may do so again in the future.  We also have made and may in the future make similar price increases on our other products.  Price increases on our products and negative publicity regarding pricing and price increases generally, whether on our products or products distributed by other pharmaceutical companies, could negatively affect market acceptance of our products.  For additional discussion about payor acceptance, see the risk factor under the heading \"Access and adequate reimbursement coverage may not be available for our products, which could diminish our sales or affect our ability to sell our products profitably\" in this Part I, Item 1A.. We face substantial competition from other companies, including companies with greater resources, including larger sales organizations and more experience working with large and diverse product portfolios, than we have.. The commercial potential of our current products and any future products may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop or acquire and commercialize generic or branded products that are safer or more effective, have fewer side effects, are easier to administer or are less expensive than our products.  The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and dominated by a number of large, established pharmaceutical companies, as well as specialty pharmaceutical companies that market products and develop product candidates in sleep, hematology/oncology, pain and other therapeutic areas.  Many of our competitors, particularly large pharmaceutical and life sciences companies, have substantially greater financial, operational and human resources than we do.  They can spend more on, and have more expertise in, research and development, regulatory, manufacturing, distribution and sales activities.  As a result, our competitors may obtain FDA or other regulatory approvals for their product candidates more rapidly than we may and may market their products more effectively than we do.  Smaller or earlier stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through focused development programs and collaborative arrangements with large, established companies.. While Xyrem is the only product approved by the FDA and currently marketed in the U.S. for the treatment of both cataplexy and EDS in patients with narcolepsy, cataplexy is often treated with tricyclic antidepressants and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors or selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, even though these products are not approved by the FDA for the treatment of cataplexy.  Other treatments for EDS in patients with narcolepsy include stimulants and wakefulness promoting agents, such as Provigil® (modafinil) and Nuvigil® (armodafinil), as well as generic versions of Provigil, the only other products both approved by the FDA and currently marketed for the treatment of EDS in patients with narcolepsy.  Provigil, its generic equivalents and Nuvigil are also approved for improving wakefulness in patients with EDS associated with treated OSA or shift work disorder.. We are also aware of products being developed by others for use as treatment options in cataplexy and/or EDS in patients with narcolepsy, including a product to treat adult patients with narcolepsy with or without cataplexy that received marketing approval in Europe in 2016.  While this product is currently not approved by the FDA for marketing in the U.S., the company that has exclusive U.S. commercialization rights to this product recently announced that it expects to establish an expanded access program for the product in early 2018 and submit an NDA to the FDA for the treatment of narcolepsy in adult patients during the first half of 2018.  The receipt of marketing approval and commercialization of this product in the U.S. for the treatment of narcolepsy patients could, depending on the targeted patient population, negatively impact our ability to maintain and grow sales of Xyrem.. Nine companies have filed ANDAs with the FDA seeking to market generic versions of Xyrem.  The FDA has approved or tentatively approved some of these ANDAs, and we believe that it is likely that the FDA will approve or tentatively approve additional ANDAs.  We have settled lawsuits against five of these companies, and patent litigation is ongoing with the other four ANDA filers.  For a description of these settlement agreements, ongoing litigation and the risks related to the launch of a generic sodium oxybate product, see \"Legal Proceedings\" in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the risk factor under the heading \"The launch of a generic version of Xyrem or other sodium oxybate products that compete with Xyrem would adversely affect sales of Xyrem.\". Other companies could also develop products that are similar, but not identical, to Xyrem, such as an alternative formulation or an alternative delivery technology, and seek approval in the U.S. through a Section 505(b)(2) NDA approval pathway, which allows companies to seek approval of a product that is similar, but not identical, to a previously-approved brand-name product, and to rely to some degree on the previously-approved product's safety and efficacy data.  For example,. 43. Table of Contents. Avadel has stated that it is conducting a Phase 3 pivotal trial pursuant to an FDA-approved special protocol assessment, and has indicated that it intends to seek approval of its product candidate using a Section 505(b)(2) NDA approval pathway referencing Xyrem.  If Avadel successfully develops, obtains FDA approval of and is able to launch this product candidate, Avadel's product may compete with Xyrem and could result in a substantial reduction of Xyrem sales, which could have the additional impact of potentially triggering acceleration of market entry of AG Products or other generic sodium oxybate products under our ANDA litigation settlement agreements.. We expect that the launch of an AG Product or a generic version of Xyrem, or the approval and launch of other products that compete with Xyrem, could have a material adverse effect on our sales of Xyrem and on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.  For further discussion regarding these and other risks and challenges we face with respect to Xyrem, see the risk factors under the headings \"Risks Related to Xyrem and the Significant Impact of Xyrem Sales\" and \"Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property\" in this Part I, Item 1A.. While there is currently no direct competition to Erwinaze to treat ALL patients with hypersensitivity to E. coli-derived asparaginase, other companies have developed or are developing new treatments for ALL, including new asparaginase treatments that could reduce the rate of hypersensitivity in patients with ALL, and new treatment protocols are being developed for ALL that may not include asparaginase-containing regimens.  For example, a number of companies are developing new immunotherapy treatments for relapsed or refractory ALL patients, including one treatment that was recently approved.  The development of these new treatments could negatively impact our ability to grow sales of Erwinaze in patient populations where the benefit of an asparaginase-containing regimen is not well established.  As a biologic product, Erwinaze also faces potential competition from biosimilar products.. AML, the cancer indication for which we commercialize Vyxeos, has alternative established therapies.  A key consideration in the treatment of AML patients is the patient's suitability for chemotherapy.  The patient population studied in the Vyxeos Phase 3 clinical trial included AML patients deemed able to tolerate chemotherapy.  The existing options for the treatment of newly-diagnosed t-AML patients who can tolerate chemotherapy include cytarabine in combination with an anthracycline (i.e., daunorubicin), known as 7+3.  In addition, we are aware of several other products that have been recently approved by the FDA or are in development for use as treatment options for AML patients, such as targeted agents (FLT-3, IDH-1, IDH-2, CD-33, CAR T - cell).  Some of the patient populations being studied for, or treated by, these products overlap with the patient population studied in the Vyxeos Phase 3 clinical trial.  The existence of established treatment options and the development of competing products for the treatment of newly-diagnosed t-AML or AML-MRC could negatively impact our ability to successfully commercialize Vyxeos and achieve the level of sales we expect, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. In the fourth quarter of 2017, we submitted an NDA for solriamfetol to the FDA for the treatment of patients with ES in narcolepsy and ES in OSA.  Other treatments for ES in patients with narcolepsy include stimulants and wake-promoting agents, such as Provigil and Nuvigil, and generic versions of stimulants and wake-promoting agents.  We are also aware of off-label uses of stimulants for ES in patients with OSA.  Solriamfetol, if approved by the FDA, will likely face competition from this genericized market.  In addition, we are aware of several other products in development for use as potential treatment options for ES in patients with narcolepsy or OSA, including, for example, pitolisant, mazindol, modafinil combinations and Avadel's once-nightly sodium oxybate formulation.. Many of our competitors are able to deploy more personnel to market and sell their products than we do.  We currently have a relatively small number of sales representatives compared with the number of sales representatives of most other pharmaceutical companies with marketed products.  Each of our sales representatives is responsible for a territory of significant size.  The continued growth of our current products and the launch of any future products may require expansion of our sales force and sales support organization, and we may need to commit significant additional funds, management and other resources to the growth of our sales organization.  We may not be able to achieve any necessary growth in a timely or cost-effective manner or realize a positive return on our investment, and we may not have the financial resources to achieve the necessary growth in a timely manner, or at all.  In particular, we compete with a significant number of pharmaceutical and life sciences companies with extensive sales, marketing and promotional experience in hematology/oncology markets, and our failure to compete effectively in this area could negatively affect our sales of Erwinaze, Defitelio, Vyxeos and other products.  We also have to compete with other pharmaceutical and life sciences companies to recruit, hire, train and retain sales and marketing personnel, and turnover in our sales force and marketing personnel could negatively affect sales of our products.  If our specialty sales force and sales organization are not appropriately sized to adequately promote any current or potential future products, the commercial potential of our current products and any future products may be diminished.. Our products and product candidates may also compete in the future with new products currently under development by others.  Any products that we develop are likely to be in a highly competitive market, and many of our competitors may succeed in developing products that may render our products obsolete or noncompetitive.. 44. Table of Contents. Our ability to continue to grow further requires that we compete successfully with specialty pharmaceutical companies for product and product candidate acquisition and in-licensing opportunities.  These competitors include established companies that may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size and financial resources.. We may not be able to successfully identify and acquire, in-license or develop additional products or product candidates to grow our business, and, even if we are able to do so, we may not be able to successfully manage the risks associated with integrating any products or product candidates we may acquire in the future into our product portfolio, or we may otherwise fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions.. We intend to grow our business over the long term by acquiring or in-licensing and developing additional products and product candidates that we believe have significant commercial potential.  Future growth through acquisition or in-licensing will depend upon the availability of suitable products and product candidates for acquisition or in-licensing on acceptable prices, terms and conditions.. Even if appropriate opportunities are available, we may not be able to successfully identify them, or we may not have the financial resources necessary to pursue them.  Other companies, many of which may have substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, compete with us for these opportunities.  In order to compete successfully to acquire attractive products or product candidates in the current business climate, we may have to pay higher prices for assets than may have been paid historically, which may make it more difficult for us to realize an adequate return on any acquisition.. Even if we are able to successfully identify and acquire, in-license or develop additional products or product candidates, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully manage the risks associated with integrating any products or product candidates or the risks arising from anticipated and unanticipated problems in connection with an acquisition or in-licensing.  We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or in-licensing for a variety of reasons, including if:. • we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate funding to complete the development of, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize an acquired product candidate;. • a product candidate proves not to be safe or effective in later clinical trials;. • a product fails to reach its forecasted commercial potential as a result of pricing pressures or for any other reason;. • we experience negative publicity regarding actual or potential future price increases for that product or otherwise; or. • the integration of a product or product candidate gives rise to unforeseen difficulties and expenditures.. Any failure to identify and manage these risks and uncertainties effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business.. In addition, product and product candidate acquisitions create other uncertainties and risks, particularly when the acquisition takes the form of a merger or other business consolidation.  Our business acquisitions have required, and any similar future transactions will also require, significant efforts and expenditures, including with respect to transition activities and integrating the acquired business with our historical business.  We may encounter unexpected difficulties, or incur unexpected costs, in connection with potential acquisitions and similar transactions, which include:. • high acquisition costs;. • the need to incur substantial debt or engage in dilutive issuances of equity securities to pay for acquisitions;. • the potential disruption of our historical core business;. • the strain on, and need to continue to expand, our existing operational, technical, financial and administrative infrastructure;. • the difficulties in assimilating employees and corporate cultures;. • the failure to retain key managers and other personnel;. • the challenges in controlling additional costs and expenses in connection with and as a result of any acquisition;. • the need to write down assets or recognize impairment charges;. • the diversion of our management's attention to integration of operations and corporate and administrative infrastructures; and. • any unanticipated liabilities for activities of or related to the acquired business or its operations, products or product candidates.. If any of these or other factors impair our ability to integrate or otherwise manage an acquired business efficiently and successfully, we may be required to spend time or money on integration activities that otherwise would be spent on the development and expansion of our business.  Resulting operating inefficiencies could increase costs and expenses more than we planned, could negatively impact the market price of our ordinary shares and could otherwise distract us from the execution of our strategy.  Failure to maintain effective financial controls and reporting systems and procedures during and after integration of an acquired business could also impact our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements.. 45. Table of Contents. Conducting clinical trials is costly and time-consuming, and the outcomes are uncertain.  A failure to prove that our product candidates are safe and effective in clinical trials, or to generate data in clinical trials to support expansion of the therapeutic uses for our existing products, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Since 2014, we have made significant investments into expanding our product development pipeline and expect to continue to increase our research and development organization.  Significant clinical, development and financial resources will be required to progress product candidates through clinical trials and the regulatory approval process to develop them into commercially viable products.  We have a number of product candidates under development.  We also intend to pursue clinical development of other product candidates that we may acquire or in-license in the future.  Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates would prevent or delay the commercialization of our product candidates, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. As a condition to regulatory approval, each product candidate must undergo extensive and expensive preclinical studies and clinical trials to demonstrate to a statistically significant degree that the product candidate is safe and effective.  The results at any stage of the development process may lack the desired safety, efficacy or pharmacokinetic characteristics.  Results of limited preclinical studies, including studies of our product candidates in animal models, may not predict the results of human clinical trials of those product candidates.  Similarly, results from early clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in later and larger clinical trials, and product candidates in later clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed successfully through initial clinical testing.  In that case, the FDA or any equivalent non-U.S. regulatory agency may determine our data is not sufficiently compelling to warrant marketing approval and may require us to engage in additional clinical trials or provide further analysis which may be costly and time-consuming.  A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even in advanced clinical trials after showing positive results in preclinical studies or earlier clinical trials.  If a product candidate fails at any stage of development and does not receive regulatory approval, we will not be able to commercialize it and receive any return on our investment in that product candidate.. We submitted an NDA for solriamfetol to the FDA in the fourth quarter of 2017 based on positive results from our two Phase 3 clinical trials, but if the FDA determines that our safety or efficacy data do not warrant marketing approval, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, which could be costly and time-consuming, or we may not be able to commercialize solriamfetol, in which event we would not receive any return on our investment.. Our development pipeline projects may not be successful, and any adverse events or other information generated during the course of studies related to existing products could result in action by the FDA or a non-U.S. regulatory agency, which may restrict our ability to sell, or adversely affect sales of, currently marketed products, or such events or other information could otherwise have a material adverse effect on a related commercial product.  Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for line extensions or the generation of additional clinical data could materially and adversely affect the maintenance and growth of the markets for the related marketed products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and overall growth prospects.. In addition to issues relating to the results generated in clinical trials, clinical trials can be delayed or halted for a variety of reasons, including:. • delays or failures in obtaining regulatory authorization to commence a trial because of safety concerns of regulators relating to our product candidates or similar product candidates of our competitors or failure to follow regulatory guidelines;. • delays or failures in obtaining clinical materials and manufacturing sufficient quantities of the product candidate for use in trials;. • delays or failures in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective study sites;. • delays or failures in obtaining approval of our clinical trial protocol from an institutional review board, also known as an ethics committee in Europe, to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective study site;. • delays or failures in recruiting patients to participate in a clinical trial;. • failure of our clinical trials and clinical investigators to be in compliance with the FDA and other regulatory agencies' requirements, commonly referred to as good clinical practices;. • unforeseen safety issues, including negative results from ongoing preclinical studies and clinical trials and adverse events associated with product candidates;. • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment;. • difficulty monitoring multiple study sites;. • difficulty identifying or enrolling eligible patients, in some cases based on the number of clinical trials with enrollment criteria targeting the same patient population;. 46. Table of Contents. • failure of our third party clinical trial managers to satisfactorily perform their contractual duties, comply with regulations or meet expected deadlines; or. • insufficient funds to complete the trials.. We have substantially expanded our international footprint and operations, and we may expand further in the future, but we do not yet have substantial historical experience in international markets and may not achieve the results that we, our shareholders or analysts who cover our business expect.. We are headquartered in Dublin, Ireland and have multiple offices in the U.S., the UK, Italy and other countries in Europe.  Our headcount has grown to approximately 1,210 as of February 2018.  This includes employees in 14 countries in North America and Europe, a European commercial presence, a complex distribution network for products in Europe and additional territories, and manufacturing facilities in Italy and Ireland.  In addition, we may expand our international operations into other countries in the future, either organically or by acquisition.  While we have acquired significant management and other personnel with substantial international experience, conducting our business in multiple countries subjects us to a variety of risks and complexities that may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects, including, among other things:. • the increased complexity and costs inherent in managing international operations;. • diverse regulatory, financial and legal requirements, and any future changes to such requirements, in one or more countries where we are located or do business;. • country-specific tax, labor and employment laws and regulations;. • applicable trade laws, tariffs, export quotas, custom duties or other trade restrictions and any changes to them;. • challenges inherent in efficiently managing employees in diverse geographies, including the need to adapt systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs to differing labor and other regulations, as well as maintaining positive interactions with unionized employees in one of our international locations;. • liabilities for activities of, or related to, our international operations, products or product candidates;. • changes in currency rates; and. • regulations relating to data security and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information.. As a result of our rapid growth, our business and corporate structure has become substantially more complex.  There can be no assurance that we will effectively manage the increased complexity without experiencing operating inefficiencies or control deficiencies.  Significant management time and effort is required to effectively manage the increased complexity of our company, and our failure to successfully do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. In recent years, the global economy has been impacted by the effects of an ongoing global financial crisis, including the European sovereign debt crisis, which has caused extreme disruption in the financial markets, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability.  In addition, we expect to continue to grow our product sales in Europe.  Continuing worldwide economic instability, including challenges faced by the Eurozone and certain of the countries in Europe and the ongoing budgetary difficulties faced by a number of EU member states, including Greece and Spain, has led and may continue to lead to substantial delays in payment and payment partially with government bonds rather than cash for medicinal drug products, which could negatively impact our revenues and profitability.. In addition, in June 2016, eligible members of the electorate in the UK decided by referendum to leave the EU.  On March 29, 2017, the government of the UK initiated the formal procedure for withdrawal from the EU.  We have a significant office in Oxford, England, which focuses on commercialization of our products outside of the U.S., among other activities.  We do not know to what extent, or when, the UK's withdrawal from the EU or any other future changes to membership in the EU will impact our business, if at all.  In particular, our ability to conduct international business out of the UK may be adversely affected.  For a further discussion, see the risks under the heading \"The results of the UK's referendum on withdrawal from the EU may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business\" in this Part I, Item 1A.. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and if they do not properly and successfully perform their legal and regulatory obligations, as well as their contractual obligations to us, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates.. We rely on contract research organizations and other third parties to assist us in designing, managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out our clinical trials, including with respect to site selection, contract negotiation and data management.  We do not control these third parties, and, as a result, they may not treat our clinical studies as a high priority, or in the manner in which we would prefer, which could result in delays.  We are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol, as well as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected.  The FDA and non-U.S. regulatory agencies enforce good clinical practices through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites.  If we, contract research organizations or other third. 47. Table of Contents. parties assisting us or our study sites fail to comply with applicable good clinical practices, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA or its non-U.S. counterparts may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications.  We cannot assure you that, upon inspection, the FDA or non-U.S. regulatory agencies will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with good clinical practices.  In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under the FDA's cGMP regulations and similar regulations outside of the U.S.  Our failure, or the failure of our product suppliers, to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat or redesign clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process.. If third parties do not successfully carry out their duties under their agreements with us, if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, including dosing requirements, or regulatory requirements, or if they otherwise fail to comply with clinical trial protocols or meet expected deadlines, our clinical trials may not meet regulatory requirements.  If our clinical trials do not meet regulatory requirements or if these third parties need to be replaced, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated.  If any of these events occur, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates or succeed in our efforts to create approved line extensions for certain of our existing products or generate additional useful clinical data in support of these products.. If we fail to attract, retain and motivate key personnel or to retain the members of our executive management team, our operations and our future growth may be adversely affected.. Our success and our ability to grow depend in part on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions, clinicians and scientists.  We are highly dependent upon our executive management team and other critical personnel, all of whom work on many complex matters that are essential to our success.  We do not carry \"key person\" insurance.  The loss of services of one or more members of our executive management team or other key personnel could delay or prevent the successful completion of some of our vital activities.  Any employee may terminate his or her employment at any time without notice or with only short notice and without cause or good reason.  The resulting loss of institutional knowledge may negatively impact our operations and future growth.. In addition, to grow our company we will need additional personnel.  Competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical industry is very intense.  If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate quality individuals, including in our research and development operations, which are continuing to expand, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be adversely affected.. We also depend on the unique abilities, industry experience and institutional knowledge of the members of our board of directors to efficiently set company strategy and effectively guide our executive management team.  We cannot be certain that future board turnover will not negatively affect our business.. Significant disruptions of information technology systems or data security breaches could adversely affect our business.. We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure, including mobile technologies, to operate our business.  In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information.  It is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information.  We have also outsourced elements of our operations (including elements of our information technology infrastructure) to third parties, and as a result we manage a number of third party vendors who may or could have access to our confidential information.  The size and complexity of our information technology systems, and those of third party vendors with whom we contract, and the large amounts of confidential information stored on those systems, make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, third party vendors, and/or business partners, or from cyber-attacks by malicious third parties.  Cyber-attacks are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity.  Cyber-attacks could include the deployment of harmful malware, denial-of-service attacks, social engineering and other means to affect service reliability and threaten the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information.  Although the aggregate impact on our operations and financial condition has not been material to date, we have been the target of events of this nature and expect them to continue.. Significant disruptions of our, our third party vendors' and/or business partners' information technology systems or security breaches could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss, misappropriation, and/or unauthorized access, use or disclosure of, or the prevention of access to, confidential information (including trade secrets or other intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information), and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us.  Any such event that leads to unauthorized access, use or disclosure of personal information, including personal information regarding our patients or employees, could harm our reputation, compel us to comply with federal and/or state breach notification laws and foreign law equivalents, subject us to mandatory corrective action, require us to verify the correctness of database contents and otherwise subject us to liability under laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of personal information, which could disrupt our business, result in increased costs or loss of revenue, and/or result in. 48. Table of Contents. significant legal and financial exposure.  In addition, security breaches and other inappropriate access can be difficult to detect, and any delay in identifying them may lead to increased harm of the type described above.  Moreover, the prevalent use of mobile devices to access confidential information increases the risk of security breaches.  While we have implemented security measures to protect our information technology systems and infrastructure, there can be no assurance that such measures will prevent service interruptions or security breaches that could adversely affect our business.. The results of the UK's referendum on withdrawal from the EU may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business.. On March 29, 2017, the government of the UK initiated the formal procedure for withdrawal from the EU.  The procedure involves a two-year negotiation period in which the UK and the EU must conclude an agreement setting out the terms of the UK's withdrawal and the arrangements for the UK's future relationship with the EU.  This negotiation period could be extended by a unanimous decision of the European Council in agreement with the UK.. The referendum has created significant uncertainty concerning the future relationship between the UK and the EU.  This includes the laws and regulations that will apply as the UK determines which EU laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal.  From a regulatory perspective, the UK's withdrawal could result in significant complexity and risks.  The tax consequences of the UK's withdrawal from the EU are uncertain as well.. The UK referendum has also given rise to calls for the governments of other EU member states to consider withdrawal from the EU.  These developments, or the perception that they could occur, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets.  They may significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets.. We have a significant office in Oxford, England, which focuses on commercialization of our products outside of the U.S., among other activities.  We do not know to what extent, or when, the UK's withdrawal from the EU or any other future changes to membership in the EU will impact our business, if at all.  In particular, our ability to conduct international business out of the UK may be adversely affected.  For a further discussion, see the risks under the headings \"We have substantially expanded our international footprint and operations, and we may expand further in the future, but we do not yet have substantial historical experience in international markets and may not achieve the results that we, our shareholders or analysts who cover our business expect\" and \"The regulatory approval process is expensive, time-consuming and uncertain and may prevent us or our partners from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of some or all of our product candidates\" in this Part I, Item 1A.. We cannot predict whether historical revenues from named patient programs for our hematology/oncology products will continue or whether we will be able to continue to distribute those products on a named patient basis.. In certain European countries, reimbursement for products that have not yet received marketing authorization may be provided through national named patient programs.  Erwinase, Defitelio and Vyxeos are available on a named patient basis in many countries where they are not commercially available.  Such reimbursement may cease to be available if authorization for a named patient program expires or is terminated.  While we generate revenue from the distribution of these products through named patient programs, we cannot predict whether historical revenues from these programs will continue, whether we will be able to continue to distribute our products on a named patient basis in these countries, whether we will be able to commercialize our products in countries where the products have historically been available on a named patient basis, or whether commercial revenues will exceed revenues historically generated from sales on a named patient basis.  Any failure to maintain revenues from sales of Erwinase and/or Defitelio on a named patient basis and/or to generate revenues from commercial sales of these products exceeding historical sales on a named patient basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. It is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection.. Our commercial success depends in part on obtaining and maintaining patent protection of our products and product candidates and their use and the methods used to manufacture and distribute them, as well as successfully defending these patents against third party challenges, and successfully protecting our trade secrets.  Our ability to protect our products and product candidates from unauthorized making, using, selling, offering to sell or importation by third parties depends on the extent to which we have rights under valid and enforceable patents or have adequately protected trade secrets that cover these activities.  We cannot be certain that any of our patent applications, or those of our licensors, will result in issued patents, that the patents we own and license, or any additional patents we may own or license, will prevent other companies from developing similar or therapeutically equivalent products, or that others will not be issued patents that may prevent the sale of our products or require licensing and the payment of significant fees or royalties.. 49. Table of Contents. The patent position of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex and often changing legal, regulatory and factual questions.  We own a portfolio of U.S. and non-U.S. patents and patent applications and have licensed rights to a number of issued patents and patent applications that cover or relate to our products and product candidates, including Xyrem, Defitelio, Vyxeos and solriamfetol.  Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property.  Even if we are able to obtain patents covering our products and product candidates, any patent may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented, potentially including by FDA approval of an ANDA or Section 505(b)(2) application that avoids infringement of our intellectual property.. Although Xyrem is covered by patents covering its formulation, distribution system and method of use, and the last U.S. patent expires in 2033, third parties are seeking to introduce generic versions of Xyrem, and additional third parties may also attempt to invalidate or design around the patents, or assert that they are invalid or otherwise unenforceable, and seek to introduce generic versions of Xyrem or other sodium oxybate products for treatment of cataplexy and/or EDS in narcolepsy.  Notwithstanding our patents and the terms of settlement agreements licensing those patents as of future dates, it is possible that any non-settling company that obtains and maintains FDA approval of an ANDA for a generic version of Xyrem or an NDA for another sodium oxybate product could introduce such product before our patents expire or before the entry dates specified in our settlement agreements, including if such company obtains a final judicial determination that its product does not infringe our patents, if it is determined that our patents are invalid or unenforceable, or if such company decides, before applicable patent litigation is concluded, to launch a sodium oxybate product at risk of being held liable for damages for patent infringement.  In addition, even if we prevail in such litigation at trial or on appeal, we cannot guarantee that a court will grant an injunction that prevents a defendant from marketing a product that infringes our patents.  Instead the court may order a party that is found to infringe to pay damages, which could be significant.  If a non-settling company launches a product in any of these scenarios, it could accelerate the launch dates for AG Products and generic sodium oxybate products under our ANDA litigation settlement agreements, depending on the circumstances.  For a description of our ongoing patent proceedings in the District Court and related regulatory matters and further discussion regarding the risks associated with our ANDA settlement agreements, the potential launch of AG Products or generic versions of Xyrem, or the approval and launch of other sodium oxybate or other products that compete with Xyrem, as well as other risks and challenges we face with respect to Xyrem, see \"Legal Proceedings\" in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, \"Business-Government Regulation-The Hatch-Waxman Act\" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the risk factors under the headings \"Risks Related to Xyrem and the Significant Impact of Xyrem Sales\" and \"We have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patents, other intellectual property rights and related matters, and we may be unable to protect our rights to, or commercialize, our products\" in this Part I, Item 1A.. The existence of a patent will not necessarily prevent other companies from developing similar or therapeutically equivalent products or protect us from claims of third parties that our products infringe their issued patents, which may require licensing and the payment of significant fees or royalties.  Competitors may successfully challenge our patents, produce similar products that do not infringe our patents, or manufacture products in countries where we have not applied for patent protection or that have a different scope of patent protection or that do not respect our patents.  Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents, our licensed patents or in third party patents.. The degree of future protection to be afforded by our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage.  For example:. • others may independently develop similar or alternative products without infringing our intellectual property rights, such as products that are not covered by the claims of our patents, or for which we do not have adequate exclusive rights under our license agreements;. • we or our licensors or partners might not have been the first to invent or file, as appropriate, subject matters covered by our issued patents or pending patent applications or the pending patent applications or issued patents of our licensors or partners;. • our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents;. • our issued patents and the issued patents of our licensors or partners may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal challenges by third parties;. • our issued patents and the issued patents of our licensors or partners may be vulnerable to legal challenges as a result of changes in applicable law;. • we may not develop additional proprietary products that are patentable; or. • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business.. 50. Table of Contents. We also rely on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our products and commercial position, particularly with respect to our products with limited or no patent protection, such as Erwinaze.  We seek to protect our trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and partners.  Nevertheless, our employees, consultants, advisors and partners may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors, and we may not have adequate remedies for such disclosures.  In addition, if our employees, consultants, advisors or partners develop inventions or processes independently, or jointly with us, that may be applicable to our products, disputes may arise about ownership or proprietary rights to those inventions and processes.  Such inventions and processes will not necessarily become our property, but may remain the property of those third parties or their employers.  Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained or is using any of our inventions or trade secrets is expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable.  In addition, courts outside of the U.S. are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets.  Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how.  Failure to obtain or maintain patent and/or trade secret protection, for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We have patents covering many of our products in Europe and other parts of the world where patent laws operate differently than in the U.S., and provide a different scope of protection for our products than in the United States.  In the EU, approval of a generic pharmaceutical product can occur independently of whether the reference brand product is covered by patents, and enforcement of such patents generally must await approval and an indication that the generic product is being offered for sale.  Patent enforcement generally must be sought on a country by country basis, and issues of patent validity and infringement may be judged differently in different countries.  Xyrem's regulatory exclusivity expired in the EU, and we are aware that generic or hybrid generic applications have been submitted, and additional generic or hybrid generic applications may be submitted, to various EU regulatory authorities.  We cannot predict whether we will be able to enforce our European patents or any patents we may be granted in the future, or other intellectual property against generic or hybrid generic filers in the EU.. Certain of the products we sell have no patent protection and, as a result, potential competitors face fewer barriers in introducing competing products.  We rely on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information to protect our commercial position with respect to such products, which we may be unable to do.  In some instances, we also rely on regulatory exclusivity.  For example, Erwinaze has no patent protection.  In addition to protection using trade secrets, Erwinaze has been granted orphan drug exclusivity by the FDA for the treatment of ALL in the U.S. for a seven-year period from its FDA approval, which precludes approval of another product with the same principal molecular structure for the same indication until November 2018.  Erwinaze, as a biologic product approved under a BLA, is also subject to the U.S. Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, or BPCIA.  We believe that Erwinaze is protected by exclusivity that prevents approval of a biosimilar in the U.S. through late 2023 under the BPCIA.  However, the BPCIA may evolve over time based on FDA issuance of guidance documents, proposed regulations, and decisions in the course of considering specific applications.  In addition, the BPCIA exclusivity period does not prevent another company from independently developing a product that is highly similar to Erwinaze, generating all the data necessary for a full BLA and seeking approval.  BPCIA exclusivity only assures that another company cannot rely on the FDA's prior approvals of Erwinaze to support the biosimilar product's approval.  As a result, it is possible that a potential competing drug product might obtain FDA approval before the orphan drug and expected BCPIA exclusivity periods have expired, which would adversely affect sales of Erwinaze.  In the EU, the regulatory data protection and thus regulatory exclusivity period for Erwinase has lapsed.  This also means that any new marketing authorizations for Erwinase in other EU member states will not receive any regulatory data protection.  If a biosimilar product to Erwinaze is approved as interchangeable to Erwinaze in the U.S. or in other countries where Erwinaze is sold, a significant percentage of the prescriptions that would have been written for Erwinaze may be filled with the biosimilar version, resulting in a loss in sales of Erwinaze, and there may be a decrease in the price at which Erwinaze can be sold.  Competition from a biosimilar product to Erwinaze could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Our research and development collaborators may have rights to publish data and other information to which we have rights.  In addition, we sometimes engage individuals or entities to conduct research that may be relevant to our business.  While the ability of these individuals or entities to publish or otherwise publicly disclose data and other information generated during the course of their research is subject to contractual limitations, these contractual provisions may be insufficient or inadequate to protect our trade secrets and may impair our patent rights.  If we do not apply for patent protection prior to such publication, or if we cannot otherwise maintain the confidentiality of our innovations and other confidential information, then our ability to obtain patent protection or protect our proprietary information may be jeopardized.  Moreover, a dispute may arise with our business partners over the ownership of rights to jointly developed intellectual property.  Such disputes, if not successfully resolved, could lead to a loss of rights and possibly prevent us from pursuing certain new products or product candidates.. 51. Table of Contents. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patents, other intellectual property rights and related matters, and we may be unable to protect our rights to, or commercialize, our products.. Our ability, and that of our partners, to commercialize any approved products will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, enforce those patents and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties.  The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions.  We have filed multiple U.S. patent applications and non-U.S. counterparts, and may file additional U.S. and non-U.S. patent applications.  There can be no assurance that any issued patents we own or control will provide sufficient protection to conduct our business as presently conducted or as proposed to be conducted.  Moreover, for a variety of reasons, including the existence of relevant prior research performed and the existence of conflicting patent applications submitted in the same manner or similar fields, there can be no assurance that any patents will issue from the patent applications owned by us, or that we will remain free from infringement claims by third parties.. If we choose to go to court to stop a third party from infringing our patents, our licensed patents or our partners' patents, that third party has the right to ask the court or an administrative agency to rule that these patents are invalid and/or should not be enforced.  These lawsuits and administrative proceedings are expensive and consume time and other resources, and we may not be successful in these proceedings or in stopping infringement.  In addition, the IPR process under the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act permits any person, whether they are accused of infringing the patent at issue or not, to challenge the validity of certain patents.  As a result, entities associated with hedge funds as well as ANDA litigants have challenged valuable pharmaceutical patents through the IPR process.  There is a risk that a court will decide that our patents are not valid or infringed, or that the PTAB will decide that certain patents are not valid, and that we do not have the right to stop a third party from using the patented subject matter.  In addition, even if we prevail in establishing that another product infringes a valid claim of one of our patents, a court may determine that we can be compensated for the infringement in damages, and refuse to issue an injunction.  As a result, we may not be entitled to stop another party from infringing our patents for their full term.  For a description of our ongoing patent proceedings in the District Court and related regulatory matters and further discussion regarding the risks associated with our settlement agreements with certain of the Xyrem ANDA filers, the potential launch of the AG Products or generic versions of Xyrem, or the approval and launch of other sodium oxybate or other products that compete with Xyrem, as well as other risks and challenges we face with respect to Xyrem, see \"Legal Proceedings\" in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, \"Business-Government Regulation-The Hatch-Waxman Act\" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the risk factors under the headings \"Risks Related to Xyrem and the Significant Impact of Xyrem Sales\" and \"It is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights, and we may not be able to ensure their protection\"  in this Part I, Item 1A.  We cannot assure you that our pending lawsuits, other lawsuits or proceedings we may file in the future, or our defense against any lawsuits or other proceeding that have been or will be brought against us will be successful in stopping the infringement of our patents, that any such litigation or other proceedings will be cost-effective, or that any of them will have a satisfactory result for us.. Litigation involving patent matters is frequently settled between the parties, rather than continuing to a court ruling, and we have settled patent litigation with five of the Xyrem ANDA filers.  The FTC has publicly stated that, in its view, certain types of agreements between branded and generic pharmaceutical companies related to the settlement of patent litigation or the manufacture, marketing and sale of generic versions of branded drugs violate the antitrust laws and has commenced investigations and brought actions against some companies that have entered into such agreements.  In particular, the FTC has expressed its intention to take aggressive action to challenge settlements that include an alleged transfer of value from the brand company to the generic company (so-called \"pay for delay\" patent litigation settlements) and to call on legislators to pass stronger laws prohibiting such settlements.  Because there is currently no precise legal standard with respect to the lawfulness of such settlements, there could be extensive litigation over whether any settlement that we have entered into or might enter into in the future constitutes a reasonable and lawful patent settlement.  Parties to such settlement agreements in the U.S. are required by law to file the agreements with the FTC and the DOJ for review.  Accordingly, we have submitted our Xyrem patent settlement agreements to the FTC and the DOJ for review.  We may receive formal or informal requests from the FTC regarding our Xyrem patent settlements, and there is a risk that the FTC may commence a formal investigation or action against us, or a third party may initiate civil litigation regarding this settlement, which could divert the attention of management and cause us to incur significant costs, regardless of the outcome.  Any claim or finding that we or our business partners have failed to comply with applicable laws and regulations could be costly to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. A third party may claim that we or our manufacturing or commercialization partners are using inventions covered by the third party's patent rights, or that we or such partners are infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating other intellectual property rights, and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities, including making or selling our products.  Such lawsuits are costly and could affect our results of operations and divert the attention of management and development personnel.  There is a risk that a court could decide that we or our partners are infringing, misappropriating or. 52. Table of Contents. otherwise violating third party patent or other intellectual property rights, which could be very costly to us and have a material adverse effect on our business.. In the pharmaceutical and life sciences industry, like other industries, it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products or methods.  The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform.  If we are sued for patent infringement, we would need to demonstrate that our products or methods do not infringe the patent claims of the relevant patent and/or that the patent claims are invalid or unenforceable, which we may not be able to do.. Because some patent applications in the U.S. may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, because patent applications in the U.S. and many non-U.S. jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after their priority date, and because publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for inventions covered by our or our licensors' issued patents or pending applications, or that we or our licensors were the first inventors.  Our competitors may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering subject matter similar to ours.  Any such patent application may have priority over our or our licensors' patents or applications and could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such subject matter.  If another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the USPTO to determine priority of invention in the U.S.  The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions.  Patent interferences are limited or unavailable for patent applications filed after March 16, 2013.. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent and other intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources.  In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations.. In September 2016, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary, submitted a Citizen Petition to the FDA requesting that, for safety reasons, the FDA refuse to approve any sodium oxybate ANDA with a proposed package insert or REMS that omits the portions of the Xyrem package insert and the Xyrem REMS that instruct prescribers on adjusting the dose of the product when it is co-administered with divalproex sodium (also known as valproate or valproic acid).  Our Xyrem patents include three DDI patents covering these instructions on the Xyrem package insert and Xyrem REMS.  Our lawsuits against each of the Xyrem ANDA filers allege infringement of multiple patents, including the DDI patents, and seek a permanent injunction to prevent these Xyrem ANDA filers from introducing a generic version of Xyrem that would infringe our patents.  In January 2017, the FDA granted the Citizen Petition with respect to the Xyrem package insert.  The FDA concluded that it will not approve any sodium oxybate ANDA referencing Xyrem that does not include in its package insert the portions of the currently approved Xyrem package insert related to the DDI with divalproex sodium.  We cannot predict whether one or more of the non-settling ANDA filers, or a company that files a Section 505(b)(2) application for a drug referencing Xyrem, may pursue regulatory strategies to avoid infringing our method of administration patents notwithstanding the FDA's response to the Citizen Petition, or whether any such strategy would be successful.  Likewise, we cannot predict whether we will be able to maintain the validity of any of our patents or will otherwise obtain a judicial determination that a generic or other sodium oxybate product, its package insert or the generic sodium oxybate REMS or another separate REMS will infringe any of our patents or, if we prevail in proving infringement, whether a court will grant an injunction that prevents any non-settling ANDA filer or other company introducing a different sodium oxybate product from marketing its product, or instead require that party to pay damages in the form of lost profits or a reasonable royalty.  For a description of these matters, see \"Legal Proceedings\" in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, \"Business-Government Regulation-The Hatch-Waxman Act\" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the risk factors under the headings \"Risks Related to Xyrem and the Significant Impact of Xyrem Sales\" and \"Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property\" in this Part I, Item 1A.. We also own method of use patents and trade secrets that cover elements of the Xyrem REMS, including patents that cover the use of a single central pharmacy to distribute Xyrem.  In July 2016, the PTAB issued final decisions that the claims of six of seven REMS patents are unpatentable.  In March 2016, the PTAB partially instituted an IPR on three claims of a seventh REMS patent, declining to review 25 of 28 claims, and in March 2017, the PTAB issued a final decision that the three claims they reviewed are unpatentable.  The July 2016 and March 2017 PTAB decisions are part of a consolidated appeal currently pending before the Federal Circuit.  If the Federal Circuit upholds the PTAB decisions on appeal, we will not be able to enforce claims the PTAB found unpatentable.  For a description of these matters, see \"Legal Proceedings\" in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10 - K.  We cannot predict whether additional post-grant patent review challenges will be filed by any of the non-settling ANDA filers or any other entity, the outcome of any proceeding, including any appeal, or the impact any IPR or other proceeding might have on ongoing ANDA litigation proceedings or other aspects of our Xyrem business.. In the FDA's letter approving the Xyrem REMS, the FDA stated that (i) the approval action should not be construed or understood as agreement with what the FDA stated was our position that dispensing through a single pharmacy is the only way to ensure that the benefits of Xyrem outweigh its risks, and that the FDA has continuing concerns that limiting the distribution. 53. Table of Contents. of Xyrem to one pharmacy imposes burdens on patient access and the healthcare delivery system, and (ii) as with all REMS, the FDA intends to evaluate the Xyrem REMS on an ongoing basis and will require modifications as may be appropriate.  We cannot predict whether the FDA will request, seek to require or ultimately require modifications to, or impose additional requirements on, the Xyrem REMS, including in connection with the submission of applications for new oxybate indications or products, or whether FDA will permit modifications to the Xyrem REMS that we consider warranted in connection with the submission of applications for new oxybate indications or products.. Any modifications required or rejected by the FDA could make it more difficult or expensive for us to distribute Xyrem, make distribution easier for sodium oxybate competitors, impair the safety profile of Xyrem, disrupt continuity of care for Xyrem patients and/or negatively affect sales of Xyrem.  In particular, depending on the nature of any such modifications or additional requirements, the ability of our existing patents and other intellectual property to protect our Xyrem distribution system from sodium oxybate competitors may be reduced.  In addition, the extent of protection provided by our patents and other intellectual property related to the distribution of Xyrem depends on the nature of the distribution system that may be used by any sodium oxybate competitor.  If the generic sodium oxybate REMS that has been approved by the FDA in connection with its approval of West-Ward's ANDA or any other sodium oxybate REMS that may be approved by the FDA does not fall within the scope of any of the claims of our patents, those patents will not be a barrier to any non-settling ANDA filer's or other unlicensed sodium oxybate product manufacturer's entry into the market.  We cannot be certain whether our existing patents, patents that may be granted in the future or other intellectual property will be construed to cover the generic sodium oxybate REMS or any other sodium oxybate REMS that may be approved by the FDA.  The interpretation of intellectual property protections and the effect of these protections are extremely complex, and we cannot predict the impact of any of these matters on our business.. Risks Related to Our Industry. The regulatory approval process is expensive, time-consuming and uncertain and may prevent us or our partners from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of some or all of our product candidates.. We are not permitted to market a pharmaceutical product in the U.S. or in the EU member states until we receive approval from the FDA, the EC or the competent authorities of the EU member states, as applicable.  An application for marketing approval must contain information demonstrating the quality, safety and efficacy of the pharmaceutical product, including data from preclinical and clinical trials, information pertaining to the preparation and manufacture of the API, analytical methods, product formulation, details on the manufacture and stability of the finished pharmaceutical product and proposed product packaging and labeling.  Submission of an application for marketing authorization does not assure approval for marketing in any jurisdiction, and we may encounter significant difficulties or costs in our efforts to obtain approval to market products.. We submitted an MAA for Vyxeos to the EMA in the fourth quarter of 2017, and we cannot predict whether we will be able to obtain approval of our MAA for Vyxeos in Europe in a timely manner, or at all.  The EMA granted accelerated assessment of our MAA, but if we are unable to respond to any EMA questions or resolve any EMA issues relating to our regulatory application in a timely manner, we or the EMA could decide to convert our accelerated assessment review for Vyxeos to a standard review timetable, which could delay the approval of our MAA.  Similarly, we submitted an NDA for solriamfetol to the FDA in the fourth quarter of 2017, and we cannot predict whether we will be able to obtain approval of our NDA for solriamfetol in the U.S. in a timely manner, or at all.  If the applicable regulatory authority for such applications determines that our safety or efficacy data do not warrant marketing approval, we could be required to conduct additional clinical trials, which could be costly and time-consuming and could delay the approval of our application, or we may not be able to commercialize Vyxeos in Europe and/or solriamfetol in the U.S.  If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates, we will not be able to commercialize them and recoup our research and development costs.  Any delay or failure in obtaining approval of a drug candidate, or receipt of approval for narrower indications than sought, can have a negative impact on our financial performance.. An approved drug product or drug candidate that has not yet been approved by the FDA or equivalent authorities in other countries may be subject to scheduling as a controlled substance under the U.S. Controlled Substances Act, or CSA, depending on the drug's potential for abuse.  We expect that solriamfetol will be subject to scheduling under the CSA before it can be commercially launched.  Moreover, depending on its scheduling, the manufacture, importation, exportation, domestic distribution, storage, sale and legitimate use of solriamfetol may be subject to a significant degree of regulation by the DEA.  For a description of the DEA scheduling process, see \"Business-Government Regulation-Post-Approval Regulation\" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. If the FDA, the EC or the competent authorities of the EU member states determine that a REMS or the imposition of post-marketing obligations is necessary to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks, we may be required to include a proposed REMS as part of an NDA or BLA or to propose post-marketing obligations to be included in the marketing. 54. Table of Contents. authorization for our products in the EU.  In non-EU countries, we may also be required to include a patient package insert or a medication guide to provide information to consumers about the product's risks and benefits, a plan for communication to healthcare providers, and restrictions on the product's distribution.  For example, the FDA requires a REMS for Xyrem, discussed in detail in the risk factor under the heading \"The distribution and sale of Xyrem are subject to significant regulatory oversight and restrictions and the requirements of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy, and these restrictions and requirements, as well as the potential impact of changes to these restrictions and requirements, subject us to increased risks and uncertainties, any of which could negatively impact sales of Xyrem\" in this Part I, Item 1A, and other products that we sell are or may become subject to a REMS specific to our product or shared with other products in the same class of drug.  We cannot predict the impact that any new REMS requirements applicable to any of our products would have on our business.. The FDA approved the BLA for Erwinaze in the U.S. in November 2011, subject to certain post-marketing requirements, which have been completed, and compliance with multiple post-marketing commitments, including certain commitments that must be met by the product's manufacturer with respect to product manufacturing, which are outside of our control.  While activities are underway to complete the post-marketing commitments, any inability to comply with regulatory requirements, including compliance with manufacturing-related post-marketing commitments that are part of the BLA approval, as well as other requirements monitored by the FDA, could adversely affect Erwinaze supply, particularly in light of our extremely limited product inventory, and could result in FDA approval being revoked, product release being delayed resulting in product shortage or product recalls, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our sales of and revenues from Erwinaze and limit our future maintenance and potential growth of the market for this product.  See also the discussion under the heading \"The loss of our single source suppliers, delays or problems in the supply of our products for commercial sale or our product candidates for use in our clinical trials, or our or our suppliers' failure to comply with manufacturing regulations, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.\" in this Part I, Item 1A.. As another example, the marketing authorization in the EU for Defitelio requires us to comply with a number of post-marketing obligations, including obligations relating to the establishment of a patient registry to investigate the long-term safety, health outcomes and patterns of utilization of Defitelio during normal use.  In January 2017, we enrolled the first patient in the Defitelio post-authorization study in the EU to provide further data on long-term safety, health outcomes and patterns of utilization of Defitelio in normal use.  The FDA imposed several post-marketing commitments and requirements in connection with its approval of our NDA for Defitelio in March 2016, including the requirement that we conduct a clinical trial, or the Defitelio post-marketing trial, to analyze the safety of defibrotide versus best supportive care in the prevention of VOD in adult and pediatric patients.  If we fail to complete any of these post-marketing obligations, including our failure to satisfactorily complete the Defitelio post-authorization study, the ongoing validity of the marketing authorization may be called into question, our sales of and revenues from Defitelio could be materially adversely affected and our future maintenance and potential growth of the market for this product may be limited.. A significant proportion of the regulatory framework in the UK is derived from EU laws.  For that reason, the results of the formal procedure of withdrawal from the EU, initiated by the UK in March 2017, could materially change the regulatory regime applicable to our operations, including with respect to the approval of our product candidates, as there is significant uncertainty concerning the future relationship between the UK and the EU.  This includes the laws and regulations that will apply as the UK determines which EU laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal.  From a regulatory perspective, the UK's withdrawal could result in significant complexity and risks.  A basic requirement related to the grant of a marketing authorization for a medicinal product in the EU is the requirement that the applicant is established in the EU.  Following withdrawal of the UK from the EU, marketing authorizations previously granted to applicants established in the UK through the centralized, mutual recognition or decentralized procedures may no longer be valid.  Moreover, depending upon the exact terms of the UK's withdrawal, there is an arguable risk that the scope of a marketing authorization for a medicinal product granted by the EC pursuant to the centralized procedure would not, in the future, include the UK.  In these circumstances, an authorization granted by the UK's competent authorities would be required to place medicinal products on the UK market.. In addition, the laws and regulations that will apply after the UK withdraws from the EU may have implications for manufacturing sites that hold certification issued by the UK competent authorities.  Our capability to rely on these manufacturing sites for products intended for the EU market would also depend upon the exact terms of the UK's withdrawal.. Any such changes to the regulatory regime could have a material adverse effect on the pharmaceutical industry generally and on our ability to obtain approval for our product candidates or, if approved, to successfully commercialize our product candidates.  For a further discussion, see the risks under the heading \"The results of the UK's referendum on withdrawal from the EU may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business\" in this Part I, Item 1A.. 55. Table of Contents. Changes in healthcare law and implementing regulations, including those based on recently enacted legislation, as well as changes in healthcare policy, may impact our business in ways that we cannot currently predict, and these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, together, the Healthcare Reform Act, is a sweeping measure intended to expand healthcare coverage within the U.S., primarily through the imposition of health insurance mandates on employers and individuals, the provision of subsidies to eligible individuals enrolled in plans offered on the health insurance exchanges, and the expansion of the Medicaid program.  This law has substantially changed the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry.  Changes that may affect our business include those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, benefits for patients within a coverage gap in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program (commonly known as the \"donut hole\"), rules regarding prescription drug benefits under the health insurance exchanges, changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, expansion of the Public Health Service's 340B drug pricing program, or the 340B program, fraud and abuse and enforcement.  These changes have impacted previously existing government healthcare programs and have resulted in the development of new programs, including Medicare payment for performance initiatives and improvements to the physician quality reporting system and feedback program.. Details of the changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program and the 340B program are discussed in the risk factor under the heading \"If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects\" in this Part I, Item 1A.  Congress could enact additional legislation that further increases Medicaid drug rebates or other costs and charges associated with participating in the Medicaid Drug Rebate program.  The issuance of regulations and coverage expansion by various governmental agencies relating to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program has increased and will continue to increase our costs and the complexity of compliance, has been and will be time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Some states have elected not to expand their Medicaid programs by raising the income limit to 133% of the federal poverty level, as is permitted under the Healthcare Reform Act.  For each state that does not choose to expand its Medicaid program, there may be fewer insured patients overall, which could impact our sales, business and financial condition.  Where Medicaid patients receive insurance coverage under any of the new options made available through the Healthcare Reform Act, the possibility exists that manufacturers may be required to pay Medicaid rebates on drugs used under these circumstances, a decision that could impact manufacturer revenues.  In addition, there have been delays in the implementation of key provisions of the Healthcare Reform Act, including the excise tax on generous employer-based health plans.  The implications of these delays for our sales, business and financial condition, if any, are not yet clear.. Moreover, additional legislative changes to or regulatory changes under the Healthcare Reform Act remain possible and appear likely in the 115th U.S. Congress and under the Trump Administration.  In this regard, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, or U.S. Tax Act, signed into law in December 2017, includes a provision repealing, effective January 1, 2019, the tax-based shared responsibility payment imposed by the Healthcare Reform Act on certain individuals who fail to maintain qualifying health coverage for all or part of a year that is commonly referred to as the \"individual mandate.\"  The nature and extent of any additional legislative or regulatory changes to the Healthcare Reform Act are uncertain at this time.  We expect that the Healthcare Reform Act, as currently enacted or as it may be amended in the future, and other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future could have a material adverse effect on our industry generally and on our ability to maintain or increase sales of our existing products or to successfully commercialize our product candidates, if approved.  In addition to the Healthcare Reform Act, there will continue to be proposals by legislators at both the federal and state levels, regulators and third party payors to keep healthcare costs down while expanding individual healthcare benefits.. Likewise, in the countries in the EU, legislators, policymakers and healthcare insurance funds continue to propose and implement cost-containing measures to keep healthcare costs down, due in part to the attention being paid to healthcare cost containment in the EU.  Certain of these changes could impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our products and any approved product candidates or the amounts of reimbursement available for these products from governmental agencies or third party payors, may increase the tax obligations on pharmaceutical companies such as ours, or may facilitate the introduction of generic competition with respect to our products.  Further, an increasing number of EU member states and other foreign countries use prices for medicinal products established in other countries as \"reference prices\" to help determine the price of the product in their own territory.  Consequently, a downward trend in prices of medicinal products in some countries could contribute to similar downward trends elsewhere.  In addition, the ongoing budgetary difficulties faced by a number of EU member states, including Greece and Spain, have led and may continue to lead to substantial delays in payment and payment partially with government bonds rather than cash for medicinal drug products, which could negatively impact our revenues and profitability.  Moreover, in order to obtain reimbursement for our products in some countries, including some EU member states, we may be required to conduct clinical trials that compare the cost-. 56. Table of Contents. effectiveness of our products to other available therapies.  There can be no assurance that our products will obtain favorable reimbursement status in any country.. In the U.S., to help patients afford our products, we have various programs to assist them, including patient assistance programs, a Xyrem free product voucher program and co-pay coupon programs for Xyrem and certain other products.  Additionally, we make grants to independent charitable foundations that help financially needy patients with their premium, co-pay, and co-insurance obligations.  Co-pay coupon programs, including our program for Xyrem, have received some negative publicity related to allegations regarding their use to promote branded pharmaceutical products over other less costly alternatives.  In recent years, pharmaceutical manufacturers were named in class action lawsuits challenging the legality of their co-pay programs under a variety of federal and state laws.  In addition, at least one insurer has directed its network pharmacies to no longer accept co-pay coupons for certain specialty drugs the insurer identified.  Our co-pay coupon programs could become the target of similar lawsuits or insurer actions.  In addition, in November 2013, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, issued guidance to the issuers of qualified health plans sold through the Healthcare Reform Act's marketplaces encouraging such plans to reject patient cost-sharing support from third parties and indicating that CMS intends to monitor the provision of such support and may take regulatory action to limit it in the future.  CMS subsequently issued a rule requiring individual market qualified health plans to accept third-party premium and cost-sharing payments from certain government-related entities.  In September 2014, the Office of Inspector General, or OIG, of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, issued a Special Advisory Bulletin warning manufacturers that they may be subject to sanctions under the federal anti-kickback statute and/or civil monetary penalty laws if they do not take appropriate steps to exclude Medicare Part D beneficiaries from using co-pay coupons.  It is possible that changes in insurer policies regarding co-pay coupons and/or the introduction and enactment of new legislation or regulatory action could restrict or otherwise negatively affect these patient support programs, which could result in fewer patients using affected products, including Xyrem, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our sales, business and financial condition.. Patient assistance programs that receive financial support from companies have become the subject of enhanced government and regulatory scrutiny.  The OIG has established guidelines that permit pharmaceutical manufacturers to make donations to charitable organizations who provide co-pay assistance to Medicare patients, provided that such organizations, among other things, are bona fide charities, are entirely independent of and not controlled by the manufacturer, provide aid to applicants on a first-come basis according to consistent financial criteria, and do not link aid to use of a donor's product.  If we or our vendors or donation recipients are deemed to fail to comply with relevant laws, regulations or evolving government guidance in the operation of these programs, we could be subject to damages, fines, penalties or other criminal, civil or administrative sanctions or enforcement actions.  We cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies and procedures will be sufficient to protect against acts of our employees, business partners or vendors that may violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate.  In May and October 2016 and February 2017, we received subpoenas from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts requesting documents related to our support of 501(c)(3) organizations that provide financial assistance to Medicare patients and documents concerning the provision of financial assistance to Medicare patients taking drugs sold by us.  Regardless of whether we have complied with the law, a government investigation could impact our business practices, harm our reputation, divert the attention of management, increase our expenses and reduce the availability of foundation support for our patients who need assistance.  For more information, see the risk factor under the heading \"We are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to commercialize our products\" in this Part I, Item 1A.. We are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to commercialize our products.. FDA and Equivalent Non-U.S. Regulatory Authorities. We are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations with respect to our marketed products, such as safety reporting requirements and additional post-marketing obligations, including regulatory oversight of the promotion and marketing of our products.  In addition, research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, sale, distribution, record keeping, importing and exporting of our products are, and any of our product candidates that may be approved by the FDA, the EC, the competent authorities of the EU member states and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities will be, subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements.  These requirements apply both to us and to third parties we contract with to perform services and supply us with products.  Failure by us or any of our third party partners, including suppliers, distributors and our central pharmacy for Xyrem, to comply with applicable requirements could subject us to administrative or judicial sanctions or other negative consequences, such as delays in approval or refusal to approve a product candidate, withdrawal, suspension or variation of product approval, untitled letters, warning letters, fines and other monetary penalties, unanticipated expenditures, product recall, withdrawal or seizure, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials, operating restrictions, injunctions; suspension of licenses, civil penalties and/or criminal prosecution, any of which could have a significant impact on our sales, business and financial condition.. 57. Table of Contents. We monitor adverse events resulting from the use of our commercial products, as do the regulatory authorities, and we file periodic reports with the authorities concerning adverse events.  The authorities review these events and reports, and if they determine that any events and/or reports indicate a trend or signal, they can require a change in a product label, restrict sales and marketing and/or require or conduct other actions, potentially including withdrawal or suspension of the product from the market, any of which could result in reduced market acceptance and demand for our products, could harm our reputation and our ability to market our products in the future, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. The FDA and the competent authorities of the EU member states on behalf of the EMA also periodically inspect our records related to safety reporting.  Following such inspections, the FDA may issue notices on FDA Form 483 and warning letters that could cause us to modify certain activities.  The EMA's Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee, or the PRAC, may propose to the Committee for Human Medicinal Products that the marketing authorization holder be required to take specific steps or advise that the existing marketing authorization be varied, suspended, or withdrawn.  An FDA Form 483 notice, if issued at the conclusion of an FDA inspection, can list conditions the FDA investigators believe may have violated relevant FDA regulations or guidance.  Failure to adequately and promptly correct the observation(s) can result in further regulatory enforcement action.  The failure to adequately address any matters identified by the FDA or other regulatory agencies in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. If we receive regulatory approvals to sell our products, the FDA, the EC, the competent authorities of the EU member states and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities where our products are approved may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of our products, or impose requirements for burdensome post-approval clinical studies or trials.  The terms of any product approval, including labeling, may be more restrictive than we desire and could affect the commercial potential of the product.  If we become aware of problems with any of our products in the U.S., the EU or elsewhere in the world or at our third party suppliers' facilities, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on our products, our suppliers, our other partners or us.  In such an instance, we could experience a significant drop in the sales of the affected products, our product revenues and reputation in the marketplace may suffer, and we could become the target of lawsuits.. EU legislation related to pharmacovigilance, or the assessment and monitoring of the safety of medicinal products, provides that the EMA and the competent authorities of the EU member states have the authority to require companies to conduct additional post-authorization efficacy studies and post-authorization safety studies.  The legislation also governs the obligations of marketing authorization holders with respect to additional monitoring, adverse event management and reporting.  Under the legislation and its related regulations and guidelines, we may be required to conduct a labor intensive collection of data regarding the risks and benefits of marketed products and may be required to engage in ongoing assessments of those risks and benefits, including the possible requirement to conduct additional clinical studies, which may be time-consuming and expensive and could impact our profitability.  Non-compliance with such obligations can lead to the variation, suspension or withdrawal of marketing authorization or imposition of financial penalties or other enforcement measures.. The FDA approved the BLA for Erwinaze in the U.S. in November 2011, subject to certain post-marketing requirements, which have been completed, and compliance with multiple post-marketing commitments, including certain commitments that must be met by the product's manufacturer with respect to product manufacturing, which are outside of our control.  While activities are underway to complete the post-marketing commitments, any inability to comply with regulatory requirements, including compliance with manufacturing-related post-marketing commitments that are part of the BLA approval, as well as other requirements monitored by the FDA, could adversely affect Erwinaze supply and could result in FDA approval being revoked or product recalls, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our sales of and revenues from Erwinaze and limit our future maintenance and potential growth of the market for this product.. The marketing authorization in the EU for Defitelio requires us to comply with a number of post-marketing obligations, including obligations relating to the establishment of a patient registry to investigate the long-term safety, health outcomes and patterns of utilization of Defitelio during normal use.  In January 2017, we enrolled the first patient in the Defitelio post-authorization study in the EU to provide further data on long-term safety, health outcomes and patterns of utilization of Defitelio in normal use.  The FDA imposed several post-marketing requirements and commitments in connection with its March 2016 approval of our NDA for Defitelio, including the requirement that we conduct the Defitelio post-marketing trial to analyze the safety of defibrotide versus best supportive care in the prevention of VOD in adult and pediatric patients.  Additionally, the FDA imposed two post-marketing requirements in connection with its approval of our NDA for Vyxeos in August 2017, including the requirement that we conduct a safety study to characterize infusion-related reactions in patients treated with Vyxeos and a clinical trial to determine dosing to minimize toxicity in patients with moderate and severe renal impairment.  If we fail to complete any of these post-marketing obligations for Defitelio or Vyxeos, including our failure to satisfactorily complete post-marketing studies and trials, the ongoing validity of the marketing authorizations may be called into question, our sales of and revenues from Defitelio and Vyxeos could be materially adversely affected and our future maintenance and potential growth of the markets for these products may be limited.. 58. Table of Contents. Erwinase and defibrotide are available on a named patient basis in many countries where they are not commercially available.  If any such country's regulatory authorities determine that we are promoting Erwinase or defibrotide without proper authorization, we could be found to be in violation of pharmaceutical advertising laws or the regulations permitting sales under named patient programs.  In that case, we may be subject to financial or other penalties.. The FDA, the competent authorities of the EU member states and other governmental authorities require advertising and promotional labeling to be truthful and not misleading, and products to be marketed only for their approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label.  The FDA routinely provides its interpretations of that authority in informal communications and also in more formal communications such as untitled letters or warning letters, and although such communications may not be considered final agency decisions, companies may decide not to contest the agency's interpretations so as to avoid disputes with the FDA, even if they believe the claims to be truthful, not misleading and otherwise lawful.  In recent years, certain courts have determined that the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution permits communications regarding off-label uses of drug products, as long as such communications are truthful and not misleading.  At the beginning of 2017, the FDA released proposed rule changes and draft guidance on the FDA's interpretation on the limitations of such speech.  These cases and regulatory actions create additional uncertainty regarding the limits of permissible communication regarding our products.. The FDA, the competent authorities of the EU member states and other governmental authorities also actively investigate allegations of off-label promotion activities in order to enforce regulations prohibiting these types of activities.  A company that is found to have promoted an approved product for off-label uses may be subject to significant liability, including civil and administrative financial penalties and other remedies as well as criminal financial penalties and other sanctions.  Even when a company is not determined to have engaged in off-label promotion, the allegation from government authorities or market participants that a company has engaged in such activities could have a significant impact on the company's sales, business and financial condition.  The U.S. government has also required companies to enter into complex corporate integrity agreements and/or non-prosecution agreements that impose significant reporting and other burdens on the affected companies.  For all of our products, it is important that we maintain a comprehensive compliance program.  Failure to maintain a comprehensive and effective compliance program, and to integrate the operations of acquired businesses into a combined comprehensive and effective compliance program on a timely basis, could subject us to a range of regulatory actions that could affect our ability to commercialize our products and could harm or prevent sales of the affected products, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products.. Other U.S. Regulatory Authorities. We are also subject to regulation by other regional, national, state and local agencies, including the DEA, the DOJ, the FTC, the United States Department of Commerce, or DOC, the OIG and other regulatory bodies, as well as governmental authorities in those non-U.S. countries in which we commercialize our products.  In addition to the FDCA, other federal, state and non-U.S. statutes and regulations govern to varying degrees the research, development, manufacturing and commercial activities relating to prescription pharmaceutical products, including preclinical testing, approval, production, labeling, sale, distribution, import, export, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information, promotion, marketing, and pricing to government purchasers and government healthcare programs.  Our partners, including our suppliers and distributors and the central pharmacy for Xyrem, a controlled substance under the CSA, are also subject to DEA and state regulations relating to manufacturing, storage, distribution and physician prescription procedures, including limitations on prescription refills and are required to maintain necessary DEA registrations and state licenses.  The DEA periodically inspects facilities for compliance with its rules and regulations.  Failure to comply with current and future regulations of the DEA, relevant state authorities or any comparable international requirements could lead to a variety of sanctions, including revocation or denial of renewal of DEA registrations, fines, injunctions, or civil or criminal penalties, could result in, among other things, additional operating costs to us or delays in shipments outside or into the U.S. and could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. In addition, a drug product approved by the FDA may be subject to scheduling as a controlled substance under the CSA, depending on the drug's potential for abuse.  Controlled substances that are pharmaceutical products are subject to a high degree of regulation under the CSA, which establishes, among other things, certain registration, manufacturing quotas, security, recordkeeping, reporting, import, export and other requirements administered by the DEA.  The DEA classifies controlled substances into five schedules: Schedule I, II, III, IV or V.  Schedule I substances by definition have a high potential for abuse, have no currently \"accepted medical use\" in the U.S., lack accepted safety for use under medical supervision, and may not be prescribed, marketed or sold in the U.S.  Pharmaceutical products approved for use in the U.S. may be listed as Schedule II, III, IV or V, with Schedule II substances considered to present the highest potential for abuse or dependence and Schedule V substances the lowest relative risk of abuse among such substances.  The DEA limits the quantity of certain Schedule I controlled substances that may be produced or procured in the U.S. in any given calendar year through a quota system.  Accordingly, we require DEA quotas for Siegfried in the U.S. to manufacture sodium oxybate, a Schedule I controlled substance, and for Patheon, our U.S.-based Xyrem supplier, to procure the sodium oxybate from Siegfried in order to. 59. Table of Contents. manufacture and supply us with Xyrem.  Because the DEA typically grants quotas on an annual basis, Siegfried and Patheon are required to request and justify allocation of sufficient annual DEA quotas as well as additional DEA quotas if our commercial or clinical requirements exceed the allocated quotas throughout the year.  For the last few years, our suppliers were allocated only a portion of the published annual aggregate quota for the API.  If one or more ANDA filers were to begin manufacturing a generic sodium oxybate product, generic manufacturers would need to obtain a portion of the annual aggregate API quota, which could decrease the DEA quota allocation obtained on our behalf by Siegfried and Patheon.  In the past, we have also had to engage in lengthy efforts to obtain the needed quotas after the original annual quotas had first been allocated.  For 2017, both Siegfried and Patheon have been allocated most, but not all, of their respective requested quotas.  If, in the future, our suppliers cannot obtain the quotas that are needed on a timely basis, or at all, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected.  We also expect that solriamfetol will be subject to scheduling by the DEA, which will need to be completed after NDA approval, and depending on the DEA's scheduling classification, we may be required to obtain a DEA quota for Siegfried to manufacture an approved solriamfetol product.  If we are unable to obtain the quotas that are needed for an approved solriamfetol product on a timely basis, or at all, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected.. The U.S. federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs.  Liability may be established without a person or entity having actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it.  This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical companies on one hand and Medicare patients, prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other.  In addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act.  Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common manufacturer business arrangements and activities from prosecution and administrative sanction, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices or arrangements that involve remuneration may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor.  Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection, and therefore would be subject to a facts and circumstances analysis to determine potential anti-kickback statute liability.. The False Claims Act prohibits, among other things, any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment of federal funds, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid.  The False Claims Act also permits a private individual acting as a \"whistleblower\" to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging violations of the statute and to share in any monetary recovery.  Many pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been investigated or subject to lawsuits by whistleblowers and have reached substantial financial settlements with the federal government under the False Claims Act for a variety of alleged improper marketing activities, including providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; providing consulting fees, grants, free travel, and other benefits to physicians to induce them to prescribe the company's products; and inflating prices reported to private price publication services, which are used to set drug reimbursement rates under government healthcare programs.  In addition, the government and private whistleblowers have pursued False Claims Act cases against pharmaceutical companies for causing false claims to be submitted as a result of the marketing of their products for unapproved uses.  Pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies also are subject to other federal false claim laws, including federal criminal healthcare fraud and false statement statutes that extend to non-government health benefit programs.. In addition, the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, or Sunshine provisions, requires us to track and report to the federal government payments and transfers of value that we make to physicians and teaching hospitals and ownership interests held by physicians and their family, and provides for public disclosures of these data.  Public reporting under the Sunshine provisions has resulted in increased scrutiny of the financial relationships between industry, teaching hospitals and physicians, and such scrutiny may negatively impact our ability to engage with physicians on matters of importance to us.  In addition, if the data reflected in our reports are found to be in violation of any of the Sunshine provisions or any other U.S. federal, state or local laws or regulations that may apply, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the Sunshine provisions, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages or fines.. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor.  A number of states require pharmaceutical companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and to report gifts and payments to individual physicians in the states.  Other states restrict when pharmaceutical companies may provide meals or gifts to prescribers or engage in other marketing-related activities.  Other states and cities require identification or licensing of sales representatives.  Still other states require the posting of information relating to clinical studies and their outcomes.  In addition, California, Connecticut, Massachusetts and Nevada require. 60. Table of Contents. pharmaceutical companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes of conduct.  Outside the U.S., we are subject to similar regulations in those countries where we market and sell products.. In May 2016, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts requesting documents related to our support of 501(c)(3) organizations that provide financial assistance to Medicare patients, and, for Xyrem, documents concerning the provision of financial assistance to Medicare patients.  In October 2016, we received a second subpoena updating and further specifying document requests regarding support to 501(c)(3) organizations that provide financial assistance to Medicare patients and the provision of financial assistance for Medicare patients taking drugs sold by us.  In February 2017, we received a third subpoena requesting documents regarding our support to a specific 501(c)(3) organization that established a fund for narcolepsy patients in January 2017.  Other companies have disclosed similar subpoenas and continuing inquiries.. The Office of the Inspector General has established guidelines that permit pharmaceutical manufacturers to make donations to charitable organizations who provide co-pay assistance to Medicare patients, provided that such organizations, among other things, are bona fide charities, are entirely independent of and not controlled by the manufacturer, provide aid to applicants on a first-come basis according to consistent financial criteria, and do not link aid to use of a donor's product.  If we or our vendors or donation recipients are deemed to fail to comply with relevant laws, regulations or evolving government guidance in the operation of these programs, such facts could be used as the basis for an enforcement action by the federal government.  We are cooperating with the government's investigation of our support of charitable organizations, and the outcome of this investigation could include an enforcement action or a settlement with the federal government.  If the federal government were to file an enforcement action against us as a result of the investigation and could establish the elements of a violation of relevant laws, we could be subject to damages, fines and penalties, which could be substantial, along with other criminal, civil or administrative sanctions.  Any settlement with the federal government could result in substantial payments and entry into a corporate integrity agreement, which would impose costs and burdens on the operation of our business.  We are unable to predict how long this investigation will continue, whether we will receive additional subpoenas in connection with this investigation, or its outcome, but we expect that we will continue to incur significant costs in connection with the investigation, regardless of the outcome.  We may also become subject to similar investigations by other state or federal governmental agencies or offices.  Any additional investigations of our patient assistance programs or other business practices may result in damages, fines, penalties or other criminal, civil or administrative sanctions or enforcement actions against us or 501(c)(3) organizations that we support (including organizations that provide assistance to narcolepsy and chronic pain patients).  Such investigations may also result in negative publicity or other negative actions as to us or 501(c)(3) organizations that we support that could harm our reputation, impact our business practices, reduce demand for, or patient access to, Xyrem and Prialt and/or reduce coverage of Xyrem and Prialt, including by federal health care programs and state health care programs.  If any or all of these events occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price could be materially and adversely affected.  For more information, see the risk factor under the heading \"Changes in healthcare law and implementing regulations, including those based on recently enacted legislation, as well as changes in healthcare policy, may impact our business in ways that we cannot currently predict, and these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition\" in this Part I, Item 1A.. Other Regulatory Authorities. In the EU, the advertising and promotion of our products are subject to EU member states' laws governing promotion of medicinal products, interactions with physicians, misleading and comparative advertising and unfair commercial practices.  In addition, other legislation adopted by individual EU member states may apply to the advertising and promotion of medicinal products.  These laws require that promotional materials and advertising in relation to medicinal products comply with the product's Summary of Product Characteristics, or SmPC, as approved by the competent authorities.  The SmPC is the document that provides information to physicians concerning the safe and effective use of the medicinal product.  It forms an intrinsic and integral part of the marketing authorization granted for the medicinal product.  Promotion of a medicinal product that does not comply with the SmPC is considered to constitute off-label promotion.  The off-label promotion of medicinal products is prohibited in the EU.  The applicable laws at EU level and in the individual EU member states also prohibit the direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription-only medicinal products.  Violations of the rules governing the promotion of medicinal products in the EU could be penalized by administrative measures, fines and imprisonment.  These laws may further limit or restrict the advertising and promotion of our products to the general public and may also impose limitations on our promotional activities with health care professionals.. Interactions between pharmaceutical companies and physicians are also governed by strict laws, regulations, industry self-regulation codes of conduct and physicians' codes of professional conduct in the individual EU member states.  The provision of benefits or advantages to physicians to induce or encourage the prescription, recommendation, endorsement, purchase, supply, order or use of medicinal products is prohibited in the EU.  The provision of benefits or advantages to physicians is also governed by the national anti-bribery laws of the EU member states.  One example is the UK Bribery Act.  As further discussed below, the UK Bribery Act applies to any company incorporated in or \"carrying on business\" in the UK,. 61. Table of Contents. irrespective of where in the world the alleged bribery activity occurs, which could have implications for our interactions with physicians both in and outside of the UK Violation of these laws could result in substantial fines and imprisonment.  Certain EU member states, such as France and Belgium, require that payments made to physicians be publicly disclosed.  Moreover, agreements with physicians must often be the subject of prior notification and approval by the physician's employer, his/her competent professional organization, and/or the competent authorities of the individual EU member states.  Failure to comply with these requirements could result in reputational risk, public reprimands, administrative penalties, fines or imprisonment.. Our business activities outside of the U.S. are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the UK Bribery Act.  The FCPA and similar anti-corruption laws generally prohibit the offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to non-U.S. government officials in order to improperly influence any act or decision, secure any other improper advantage, or obtain or retain business.  The FCPA also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions of the company and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls.  The UK Bribery Act prohibits giving, offering, or promising bribes to any person, including both UK and non-UK government officials and private persons, as well as requesting, agreeing to receive, or accepting bribes from any person.  In addition, under the UK Bribery Act, companies which carry on a business or part of a business in the UK may be held liable for bribes given, offered or promised to any person, including non-UK government officials and private persons, in another country by employees and persons associated with the company in order to obtain or retain business or a business advantage for the company.  Liability is strict, with no element of a corrupt state of mind, but having in place adequate procedures designed to prevent bribery is an available defense.  Furthermore, under the UK Bribery Act there is no exception for facilitation payments.  As described above, our business is heavily regulated and therefore involves significant interaction with public officials, including officials of non-U.S. governments.  Additionally, in many other countries, the health care providers who prescribe pharmaceuticals are employed by their government, and the purchasers of pharmaceuticals are government entities; therefore, our dealings with these prescribers and purchasers may be subject to regulation under the FCPA.  Recently the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the DOJ have increased their FCPA enforcement activities with respect to pharmaceutical companies.  In addition, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, private individuals who report to the SEC original information that leads to successful enforcement actions may be eligible for a monetary award.  There is no certainty that all employees and third party business partners (including our distributors, wholesalers, agents, contractors, and other partners) will comply with anti-bribery laws.  In particular, we do not control the actions of suppliers and other third party agents, although we may be liable for their actions.  Violation of these laws may result in civil or criminal sanctions, which could include monetary fines, criminal penalties, and disgorgement of past profits, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition.. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing data privacy and the protection of health-related and other personal information.  These laws include security breach notification requirements and protection of consumer health information.  The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data security continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing focus on privacy and data security issues which may affect our business.  Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use, disclosure, and protection of personal information.  Although there are legal mechanisms to facilitate the transfer of personal data from the European Economic Area, or EEA, and Switzerland to the U.S., the decision of the European Court of Justice that invalidated the safe harbor framework on which we previously relied has increased uncertainty around compliance with EU privacy law requirements.  As a result of the decision, it was no longer possible to rely on safe harbor certification as a legal basis for the transfer of personal data from the EU to entities in the U.S.  In February 2016, the EC announced an agreement with the DOC to replace the invalidated safe harbor framework with a new EU-U.S. \"Privacy Shield.\"  On July 12, 2016, the EC adopted a decision on the adequacy of the protection provided by the Privacy Shield.  The Privacy Shield is intended to address the requirements set out by the European Court of Justice in its recent ruling by imposing more stringent obligations on companies, providing stronger monitoring and enforcement by the DOC and FTC and making commitments on the part of public authorities regarding access to information.. U.S.-based companies may certify compliance with the privacy principles of the Privacy Shield.  Certification to the Privacy Shield, however, is not mandatory.  If a U.S.-based company does not certify compliance with the Privacy Shield, it may rely on other authorized mechanisms to transfer personal data.  In September 2016, we filed for certification for our U.S.-based subsidiaries under the Privacy Shield.  This certification was approved in January 2017.. The privacy and data security landscape is still in flux.  In October 2016, an action for annulment of the EC decision on the adequacy of Privacy Shield was brought before the European Court of Justice by three French digital rights advocacy groups, La Quadrature du Net, French Data Network and the Fédération FDN.  This case, Case T-738/16, is currently pending before the European Court of Justice.  Should the European Court of Justice invalidate the Privacy Shield, it will no longer be possible to transfer data from the EU to entities in the U.S. under a Privacy Shield certification, in which case other legal mechanisms would need to be put in place.. 62. Table of Contents. Healthcare providers who prescribe our products and research institutions that we collaborate with are subject to privacy and security requirements under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HIPAA.  Although we are not directly subject to HIPAA other than with respect to providing certain employee benefits, we potentially could be subject to criminal penalties if we, our affiliates or our agents knowingly obtain or disclose individually identifiable health information maintained by a HIPAA-covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA.. Failure to comply with current and future federal and state laws and regulations could result in government enforcement actions (including the imposition of significant penalties), criminal and civil liability for us and our officers and directors, private litigation and/or adverse publicity that negatively affects our business.. If we or our vendors fail to comply with applicable data privacy laws, or if the legal mechanisms we or our vendors rely upon to allow for the transfer of personal data from the EEA or Switzerland to the U.S. (or other countries not considered by the EC to provide an adequate level of data protection) are not considered adequate, we could be subject to government enforcement actions and significant penalties against us, and our business could be adversely impacted if our ability to transfer personal data outside of the EEA or Switzerland is restricted, which could adversely impact our operating results.  The EU General Data Protection Regulation, which was officially adopted in April 2016 and will be applicable in May 2018, will introduce new data protection requirements in the EU, as well as substantial fines for breaches of the data protection rules.  The EU General Data Protection Regulation will increase our responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process, and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms to ensure compliance with the new EU data protection rules.  In addition, data protection authorities of the different EU member states may interpret the EU Data Protection Directive and national laws differently, and guidance on implementation and compliance practices are often updated or otherwise revised, which adds to the complexity of processing personal data in the EU.. The number and complexity of both U.S. federal and state laws continue to increase, and additional governmental resources are being added to enforce these laws and to prosecute companies and individuals who are believed to be violating them.  In addition, we expect private plaintiffs to continue to file lawsuits against pharmaceutical manufacturers under the whistleblower provisions of the False Claims Act and state equivalents and to seek out new theories of liability under those statutes.  We also expect government enforcement agencies to continue to \"intervene\" in private whistleblower lawsuits, effectively converting the private lawsuit into a lawsuit by the government, which typically increases the likelihood that the lawsuit will result in increased expense for the company and/or a burdensome settlement.  For example, federal enforcement agencies recently have shown interest in pharmaceutical companies' product and patient assistance programs, including manufacturer reimbursement support services and relationships with specialty pharmacies.  Some of these investigations have resulted in government enforcement authorities intervening in related whistleblower lawsuits and obtaining significant civil and criminal settlements.  Other private whistleblowers have proceeded without government invention, causing considerable expense to targeted companies.. Recent changes in the law have reinforced and facilitated these trends.  In particular, the Healthcare Reform Act includes a number of provisions aimed at strengthening the government's ability to pursue anti-kickback and false claims cases against pharmaceutical manufacturers and other healthcare entities, including substantially increased funding for healthcare fraud enforcement activities, enhanced investigative powers, and amendments to the False Claims Act that make it easier for the government and whistleblowers to pursue cases for alleged kickback and false claim violations, such as defining a \"false\" claim to include any claim based on a violation of the anti-kickback statute.  While we cannot say with certainty what effect these changes have had or will have on our business, we anticipate that increased enforcement and litigation, including through government intervention in whistleblower lawsuits and private whistleblowers proceeding on their own, will continue for the foreseeable future.  Responding to a whistleblower lawsuit, government investigation or enforcement action, defending any claims raised, and paying any resulting fines, damages, penalties or settlement amounts would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Several aspects of our business may subject us to antitrust scrutiny by the FTC or to civil litigation alleging violation of the antitrust laws.  For example, REMS and the improper use of REMS as a means of improperly blocking or delaying competition for branded pharmaceutical products have increasingly drawn public scrutiny from Congress, the FTC and the FDA.  Congress, for example, has introduced proposed legislation aimed at preventing companies from using REMS and other restricted distribution programs as a means to deny potential competitors access to product samples needed for bioequivalence testing.  The FDA has stated that it will seek to coordinate with the FTC in identifying and publicizing practices the FTC finds to be anticompetitive and has further stated that the FDA has concerns related to the role of REMS programs in delaying approval of generic products.  It is possible that the FTC, the FDA, other governmental authorities or other third parties could claim that, or launch an investigation into whether, we are using the Xyrem REMS in an anticompetitive manner (including in light of the FDA's statement in the Xyrem REMS approval letter that the Xyrem REMS could be used in an anticompetitive manner inconsistent with applicable provisions of the FDCA) or have engaged in other anticompetitive practices.  The FDCA. 63. Table of Contents. further states that a REMS shall not be used by an NDA holder to block or delay generic drugs or drugs covered by an application under Section 505(b)(2), from entering the market.  Several of the ANDA applicants have asserted that our REMS patents should not have been listed in the Orange Book, and that the Xyrem REMS is blocking competition.. Another area of potential antitrust scrutiny relates to the settlement of patent litigation with potential generic competitors.  Parties to such settlement agreements in the U.S. are required by law to file the agreements with the FTC and the DOJ for review.  Accordingly, we have submitted our Xyrem patent settlement agreements to the FTC and the DOJ for review.  The FTC has publicly stated that, in its view, certain brand-generic settlement agreements violate the antitrust laws and has brought actions against certain branded and generic companies that have entered into such agreements.  In particular, the FTC has expressed its intention to take aggressive action to challenge settlements that include an alleged transfer of value from the brand company to the generic company (so-called \"pay for delay\" patent litigation settlements) and to call on legislators to pass stronger laws prohibiting such settlements.  Because there is currently no precise legal standard with respect to the lawfulness of such settlements, there could be extensive litigation over whether any settlement that we have entered into or might enter into in the future constitutes a reasonable and lawful patent settlement.  We may receive formal or informal requests from the FTC regarding our Xyrem patent settlements, and there is a risk that the FTC may commence a formal investigation or action against us, or a third party may initiate civil litigation regarding this settlement, which could divert the attention of management and cause us to incur significant costs, regardless of the outcome.  Any claim or finding that we or our business partners have failed to comply with applicable laws and regulations could be costly to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.  We cannot predict the outcome of any potential government investigation of any antitrust claims, including those described above, or the impact of any such claims.. Compliance with U.S. federal and state, EU and EU member state national laws that apply to pharmaceutical manufacturers is difficult and time-consuming, and companies that violate these laws may face substantial penalties.  The potential sanctions include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a company's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment.  Because of the breadth of these laws and, in some cases, the lack of extensive legal guidance in the form of regulations or court decisions, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of these laws.  If we or the other parties with whom we work fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we or they could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could affect our ability to commercialize our products and could harm or prevent sales of the affected products, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products.  Any threatened or actual government enforcement action could also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could otherwise be used in other aspects of our business.. We manufacture certain APIs, including the defibrotide drug substance, at our manufacturing facilities in Italy.  In addition, we have engaged a third party supplier to process defibrotide into the finished product in Italy.  Our manufacturing facilities and those of our third party manufacturer are subject to continuing regulation by the Italian Health Authority and other Italian regulatory authorities with respect to the manufacturing of APIs and drug products, including the defibrotide drug substance and its finished form.  These facilities are also subject to inspection by the competent authorities of the EU member states and regulation by the EMA.  Following initial approval in a jurisdiction, the competent authorities will continue to inspect our manufacturing facilities and those of our third party supplier, in some cases, unannounced, to confirm ongoing compliance with cGMP.  The cGMP requirements govern quality control of the manufacturing process and documentation policies and procedures, and we and our third party suppliers will need to ensure that all of our processes, methods and equipment are compliant with cGMP.  If these authorities determine that either our facilities or our third party supplier's facility in Italy do not meet the standards of compliance required under applicable regulations, they may deny approval to manufacture our products, require us to stop manufacturing our products, deny approval to the sale of our products or suspend the sale of our products.. If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program or other governmental pricing programs, we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. We participate in and have certain price reporting obligations to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, several state Medicaid supplemental rebate programs and other governmental pricing programs, and we have obligations to report average sales price under the Medicare program.  Under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, we are required to pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for our covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state Medicaid program as a condition of having federal funds being made available to the states for our drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B.  Those rebates are based on pricing data reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to CMS, the federal agency that administers the Medicaid Drug Rebate program.  These data include the average manufacturer price and, in the case of innovator products, the best price for each drug which, in general, represents the lowest price available from the manufacturer to any entity in the U.S. in any pricing structure, calculated to include all sales and associated rebates, discounts. 64. Table of Contents. and other price concessions.  Our failure to comply with these price reporting and rebate payment obligations could negatively impact our financial results.. The Healthcare Reform Act made significant changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, such as expanding rebate liability from fee-for-service Medicaid utilization to include the utilization of Medicaid managed care organizations as well and changing the definition of average manufacturer price.  The Healthcare Reform Act also increased the minimum Medicaid rebate; changed the calculation of the rebate for certain innovator products that qualify as line extensions of existing drugs; and capped the total rebate amount at 100% of the average manufacturer price.  Finally, the Healthcare Reform Act requires pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded prescription drugs to pay a branded prescription drug fee to the federal government.  Congress could enact additional legislation that further increases Medicaid drug rebates or other costs and charges associated with participating in the Medicaid Drug Rebate program.  CMS recently issued a final regulation, which became effective on April 1, 2016, to implement the changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program under the Healthcare Reform Act.  The issuance of the final regulation, as well as any other regulations and coverage expansion by various governmental agencies relating to the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, has increased and will continue to increase our costs and the complexity of compliance, has been and will continue to be time-consuming to implement, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly if CMS challenges the approach we take in our implementation of the final regulation.. Federal law requires that any company that participates in the Medicaid Drug Rebate program also participate in the Public Health Service's 340B program in order for federal funds to be available for the manufacturer's drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B.  The 340B program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily defined covered entities no more than the 340B \"ceiling price\" for the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs.  These 340B covered entities include a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the Public Health Service, as well as hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients.  The Healthcare Reform Act expanded the list of covered entities to include certain free-standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, rural referral centers and sole community hospitals, but exempts \"orphan drugs\" from the ceiling price requirements for these covered entities.  The 340B ceiling price is calculated using a statutory formula based on the average manufacturer price and rebate amount for the covered outpatient drug as calculated under the Medicaid Drug Rebate program, and in general, products subject to Medicaid price reporting and rebate liability are also subject to the 340B ceiling price calculation and discount requirement.  Any additional future changes to the definition of average manufacturer price and the Medicaid rebate amount under the Healthcare Reform Act could affect our 340B ceiling price calculations and negatively impact our results of operations.. The Healthcare Reform Act obligates the Secretary of the HHS to update the agreement that manufacturers must sign to participate in the 340B program to obligate a manufacturer to offer the 340B price to covered entities if the manufacturer makes the drug available to any other purchaser at any price and to report to the government the ceiling prices for its drugs.  The Health Resources and Services Administration, or HRSA, recently updated the agreement with participating manufacturers.  The Healthcare Reform Act also obligates the Secretary of the HHS to create regulations and processes to improve the integrity of the 340B program.  On January 5, 2017, HRSA issued a final regulation regarding the calculation of 340B ceiling price and the imposition of civil monetary penalties on manufacturers that knowingly and intentionally overcharge covered entities.  The effective date of the regulation has been delayed until July 1, 2018.  Implementation of this final rule and the issuance of any other final regulations and guidance could affect our obligations under the 340B program in ways we cannot anticipate.  In addition, legislation may be introduced that, if passed, would further expand the 340B program to additional covered entities or would require participating manufacturers to agree to provide 340B discounted pricing on drugs used in an inpatient setting.. Federal law also requires that a company that participates in the Medicaid Drug Rebate program report average sales price information each quarter to CMS for certain categories of drugs that are paid under the Medicare Part B program.  Manufacturers calculate the average sales price based on a statutorily defined formula as well as regulations and interpretations of the statute by CMS.  CMS uses these submissions to determine payment rates for drugs under Medicare Part B.  Statutory or regulatory changes or CMS guidance could affect the average sales price calculations for our products and the resulting Medicare payment rate, and could negatively impact our results of operations.. Pricing and rebate calculations vary across products and programs, are complex, and are often subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts.  In the case of our Medicaid pricing data, if we become aware that our reporting for a prior quarter was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, we are obligated to resubmit the corrected data for up to three years after those data originally were due.  Such restatements and recalculations increase our costs for complying with the laws and regulations governing the Medicaid Drug Rebate program and could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters.  Price recalculations also may affect the ceiling price at which we are required to offer our products under the 340B program.. Civil monetary penalties can be applied if we are found to have knowingly submitted any false price information to the government, if we are found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of our average sales price, or if we fail to submit the required price data on a timely basis.  Such conduct also could be grounds for CMS to terminate our Medicaid drug rebate. 65. Table of Contents. agreement, in which case federal payments may not be available under Medicaid or Medicare Part B for our covered outpatient drugs.  We cannot assure you that our submissions will not be found by CMS to be incomplete or incorrect.. In order to be eligible to have our products paid for with federal funds under the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs and purchased by certain federal agencies and grantees, we participate in the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, or VA, Federal Supply Schedule, or FSS, pricing program.  As part of this program, we are obligated to make our products available for procurement on an FSS contract under which we must comply with standard government terms and conditions and charge a price that is no higher than the statutory Federal Ceiling Price, or FCP, to four federal agencies (VA, U.S. Department of Defense, or DOD, Public Health Service, and U.S. Coast Guard).  The FCP is based on the Non-Federal Average Manufacturer Price, or Non-FAMP, which we calculate and report to the VA on a quarterly and annual basis.  Pursuant to applicable law, knowing provision of false information in connection with a Non-FAMP filing can subject a manufacturer to penalties of $181,071 for each item of false information.  These obligations also contain extensive disclosure and certification requirements.. We also participate in the Tricare Retail Pharmacy program, under which we pay quarterly rebates on utilization of innovator products that are dispensed through the Tricare Retail Pharmacy network to Tricare beneficiaries.  The rebates are calculated as the difference between the annual Non-FAMP and FCP.  We are required to list our covered products on a Tricare Agreement in order for these products to be eligible for DOD formulary inclusion.  If we overcharge the government in connection with our FSS contract or Tricare Agreement, whether due to a misstated FCP or otherwise, we are required to refund the difference to the government.  Failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in allegations against us under the False Claims Act and other laws and regulations.  Unexpected refunds to the government, and responding to a government investigation or enforcement action, would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Access and adequate reimbursement coverage may not be available for our products, which could diminish our sales or affect our ability to sell our products profitably.. In both U.S. and non-U.S. markets, our ability to successfully commercialize and achieve market acceptance of our products, and to attract commercialization partners for our products, depends in significant part on access, the availability of adequate financial coverage and reimbursement from third party payors, including governmental payors (such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs in the U.S.), managed care organizations and private health insurers.  The process for determining whether a third party payor will provide coverage for a product may be separate from the process for setting the price or reimbursement rate that the payor will pay for the product once coverage is approved.  Without third party payor support, patients may not be able to obtain prescribed medications due to an inability to afford the medication.. Third party payors are increasingly examining the cost effectiveness of pharmaceutical products, in addition to their safety and efficacy, when making coverage, pricing and reimbursement decisions.  We may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic and/or clinical studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products.  Even with such studies, our products may be considered less safe, less effective or less cost-effective than other products, and third party payors may not provide and maintain price approvals, coverage and reimbursement for our products.  If our competitors offer their products at prices that provide lower treatment costs than our products, or otherwise suggest that their products are safer, more effective or more cost-effective than our products, this may result in a greater level of access for their products relative to our products, which would reduce our sales and harm our results of operations.  In some cases, for example, third party payors try to encourage the use of less expensive generic products through their prescription benefits coverage and reimbursement and co-pay policies.  Because some of our products compete in a market with both branded and generic products, obtaining and maintaining access and reimbursement coverage for our products may be more challenging than for products that are new chemical entities for which no therapeutic alternatives exist.. Third party payors' practices for establishing access and reimbursement coverage can be complex, time-consuming for patients and prescribing physicians and vary widely from payor to payor.  Third party payors often require prior authorization for, and require reauthorization for continuation of, prescription products.  Restrictive conditions for reimbursement and an increase in reimbursement-related activities can extend the time required to fill prescriptions and may discourage patients from seeking treatment.  For example, we are experiencing increasingly restrictive conditions for reimbursement required by some third party payors for Xyrem, which may have a material effect on the overall level of reimbursement coverage for Xyrem.  Increases in reimbursement-related activities have extended the time required to fill prescriptions and could continue to do so in the future.  We cannot predict actions that third party payors may take, or whether they will limit the access and level of reimbursement for our products or refuse to provide any approvals or coverage.  From time to time, third party payors have refused to provide reimbursement for our products, and others may do so in the future.. In addition, reimbursement guidelines and incentives provided to prescribing physicians by third party payors may have a significant impact on the prescribing physicians' willingness to prescribe our products.  For example, the U.S. federal government follows a Medicare severity diagnosis-related group, or MS-DRG, payment system for certain inpatient hospital services provided under Medicare, which some states also use for Medicaid.  The MS-DRG system entitles a hospital to a fixed. 66. Table of Contents. reimbursement based on discharge diagnoses rather than actual costs incurred in providing inpatient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control expenditures for many healthcare products.  For our products used in the inpatient hospital setting, there may not be sufficient reimbursement under the MS-DRG to fully cover the cost of our products.  Any failure to cover our products appropriately could impact our ability to maximize revenues in the federal marketplace.  A significant portion of our revenue from Erwinaze is obtained through government payors, including Medicaid, and any failure to qualify for reimbursement for Erwinaze under those programs, including as a result of legislative changes to these programs, would have a material adverse effect on revenues from Erwinaze.. Third party payors are also increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates, such as average net sales price, average manufacturer price and actual acquisition cost.  Certain states have begun to survey acquisition cost data for the purpose of setting Medicaid reimbursement rates.  CMS surveys and publishes retail community pharmacy acquisition cost information in the form of National Average Drug Acquisition Cost files to provide state Medicaid agencies with a basis of comparison for their own reimbursement and pricing methodologies and rates.  It may be difficult to project the impact of these evolving reimbursement mechanics on the willingness of payors, including government payors, to cover our products.. Increasing consolidation among third party payors has led to fewer and larger third party payors with increased negotiating power.  In particular, a small number of third party payors cover a significant portion of Xyrem patients.  As a result, we may experience increasing pressure from third party payors to agree to discounts, rebates or other restrictive pricing terms for Xyrem.  In the retail pharmacy sector, in which we expect that sales of an approved solriamfetol product would occur, a small number of third party payors and other third-party organizations known as pharmacy benefit managers, or PBMs, tasked with administrating prescription drug programs for large employers, health plans and government programs have  market power and negotiating leverage to limit coverage to specific products on an approved list, or formulary, which might not include all of the approved products for a particular indication, and to exclude drugs from their formularies in favor of competitor drugs or alternative treatments, and/or to mandate stricter utilization criteria.  Formulary exclusion effectively encourages patients and providers to seek alternative treatments or pay 100% of the cost of a drug.  In the retail sector, if approved by the FDA, solriamfetol may face such conditions following its commercial launch, which could impact our other products.  In highly competitive treatment markets, third party payors and PBMs may also exert negotiating leverage by requiring incremental rebates from manufacturers in order to maintain their formulary position.. If solriamfetol is approved by the FDA, the product will enter a competitive retail market of branded and generic products.  Any delays or unforeseen difficulties in obtaining access or reimbursement approvals could delay or prevent our commercial launch and our ability to receive a return on our investment in solriamfetol.  As part of the overall trend toward cost containment, third party payors could choose to require patients to try alternative, including generic, treatments before authorizing payment for solriamfetol, exclude solriamfetol from formulary coverage lists, limit the types of diagnoses for which coverage will be provided or demand rebates, discounts, exclusivity, or other concessions for solriamfetol and potentially our other products.  We cannot predict market acceptance of, and our ability to obtain favorable formulary positions, access and reimbursement coverage for, solriamfetol.  If we are unsuccessful in obtaining broad coverage for solriamfetol, our anticipated revenue from and growth prospects for an approved solriamfetol product could be negatively affected.. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry in the U.S. to fundamental changes, and we expect there will continue to be legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably.  Several states have recently passed laws aimed at increasing transparency relating to drug pricing, and other states may do so in the future.  We anticipate that the U.S. Congress, state legislatures and the private sector will continue to consider and may adopt healthcare policies and reforms intended to curb healthcare costs, particularly given the current atmosphere of mounting criticism of prescription drug costs in the U.S.  These cost containment measures may include federal and state controls on government-funded reimbursement for drugs; new or increased requirements to pay prescription drug rebates to government health care programs; additional pharmaceutical cost transparency bills that aim to require drug companies to justify their prices through required disclosures; controls on healthcare providers; challenges to the pricing of drugs, or limits or prohibitions on reimbursement for specific products through other means; requirements to try less expensive products or generics before a more expensive branded product; changes in drug importation laws; expansion of use of managed care systems in which healthcare providers contract to provide comprehensive healthcare for a fixed cost per person; and public funding for cost effectiveness research, which may be used by government and private third party payors to make coverage and payment decisions.. Much attention has been paid to legislation proposing federal rebates on Medicare Part D and Medicare Advantage utilization for drugs issued to certain groups of lower income beneficiaries and the desire to change the provisions that treat these dual-eligible patients differently from traditional Medicare patients.  Any such changes could have a negative impact on revenues from sales of our products.  Beginning April 1, 2013, Medicare payments for all items and services, including drugs and biologics, were reduced by 2% under the sequestration (i.e., automatic spending reductions) required by the Budget Control Act of 2011, as amended by the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012.  Subsequent legislation extended the 2% reduction, on average, to 2025.  These cuts reduce reimbursement payments related to our products, which could potentially negatively. 67. Table of Contents. impact our revenue.  Any failure to cover our products appropriately, in addition to legislative and regulatory changes and others that may occur in the future, could impact our ability to maximize revenues in the federal marketplace.  A significant portion of our revenue from Erwinaze is obtained through government payors, including Medicaid, and any failure to qualify for reimbursement for Erwinaze under those programs, including as a result of legislative changes to these programs, would have a material adverse effect on revenues from Erwinaze.  There also continue to be legislative proposals to amend U.S. laws to allow the importation into the U.S. of prescription drugs, which can be sold at prices that are regulated by the governments of various non-U.S. countries.  The potential importation of prescription drugs could pose significant safety concerns for patients, increase the risk of counterfeit products becoming available in the market, and could also have a negative impact on prescription drug prices in the U.S.. If healthcare policies or reforms intended to curb healthcare costs are adopted or if we experience negative publicity with respect to pricing of our products or the pricing of pharmaceutical drugs generally, the prices that we charge for our products, including Xyrem, may be limited, our commercial opportunity may be limited and/or our revenues from sales of our products may be negatively impacted.  We have periodically increased the price of Xyrem, most recently in January 2018, and we have made and may in the future make similar price increases on our other products.  We cannot assure you that such price adjustments will not negatively affect our reputation and our ability to secure and maintain reimbursement coverage for our products, which could negatively impact our sales volumes and revenue.  We expect to continue to experience pricing pressure in the U.S. in connection with the sale of our products due to third party payer actions, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations, PBMs and managed healthcare generally, additional legislative proposals to curb healthcare costs and negative publicity regarding pricing and price increases generally, which could limit the prices that we charge for our products, including Xyrem, limit the commercial opportunities for our products and/or negatively impact revenues from sales of our products.. If we become the subject of any government investigation with respect to our drug pricing or other business practices, including as they relate to the Xyrem REMS, we could incur significant expense and could be distracted from operation of our business and execution of our strategy.  Any such investigation could also result in reduced market acceptance and demand for our products, could harm our reputation and our ability to market our products in the future, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.  In May and October 2016 and February 2017, we received subpoenas from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts requesting documents related to our support of 501(c)(3) organizations that provide financial assistance to Medicare patients and documents concerning the provision of financial assistance to Medicare patients taking drugs sold by us.  For more information, see the risk factors under the headings \"Changes in healthcare law and implementing regulations, including those based on recently enacted legislation, as well as changes in healthcare policy, may impact our business in ways that we cannot currently predict, and these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition\" and  \"We are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight, which may result in significant additional expense and limit our ability to commercialize our products\" in this Part I, Item 1A.. In many countries outside the U.S., procedures to obtain price approvals, coverage and reimbursement can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval.  The process of maintaining pricing and reimbursement approvals is complex and varies from country to country.  Many European countries periodically review their reimbursement classes, which could have an adverse impact on the reimbursement status of Defitelio.  We cannot predict the outcome of any periodic reviews required to maintain pricing and reimbursement approvals across Europe.  If we are unable to maintain favorable pricing and reimbursement approvals in countries that represent significant markets, especially where a country's reimbursed price influences other countries, our anticipated revenue from and growth prospects for Defitelio in the EU could be negatively affected.  In addition, we submitted an MAA to the EMA for Vyxeos in the fourth quarter of 2017.  If Vyxeos is approved by the MAA, we will need to make pricing and reimbursement submissions in European countries where pricing and reimbursement approvals are required for launch.  If we experience delays or unforeseen difficulties in obtaining favorable pricing and reimbursement approvals, planned launches in the affected European countries would be delayed, which could negatively impact anticipated revenue from Vyxeos.  If we are unable to obtain favorable pricing and reimbursement approvals in European countries that represent significant potential markets, our anticipated revenue from and growth prospects for Vyxeos in the EU could be negatively affected.. In various EU member states, we expect to be subject to continuous cost-cutting measures, such as lower maximum prices, lower or lack of reimbursement coverage and incentives to use cheaper, usually generic, products as an alternative.  Health Technology Assessment, or HTA, of medicinal products is becoming an increasingly common part of the pricing and reimbursement procedures in some EU member states.  These EU member states include the UK, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Spain, and Sweden.  The HTA process, which is governed by the national laws of these countries, is the procedure according to which the assessment of the public health impact, therapeutic impact and the economic and societal impact of use of a given medicinal product in the national healthcare systems of the individual country is conducted.  HTA generally focuses on the clinical efficacy and effectiveness, safety, cost, and cost-effectiveness of individual medicinal products, as well as their potential implications for the healthcare system.  Those elements of medicinal products are compared with other treatment. 68. Table of Contents. options available on the market.  The outcome of HTA regarding specific medicinal products will often influence the pricing and reimbursement status granted to these medicinal products by the competent authorities of individual EU member states.  Pursuant to Directive 2011/24/EU, a voluntary network of national authorities or bodies responsible for HTA in the individual EU member states was established.  The purpose of the network is to facilitate and support the exchange of scientific information concerning HTAs.  This could lead to harmonization between EU member states of the criteria taken into account in the conduct of HTA and their impact on pricing and reimbursement decisions.  The extent to which pricing and reimbursement decisions are influenced by the HTA of the specific medicinal product, however, still vary between EU member states and cannot be determined or anticipated in relation to our products at the present time.  If we are unable to ultimately obtain favorable pricing and reimbursement approvals in countries that represent significant markets, especially where a country's reimbursed price influences other countries, our growth prospects in Europe could be negatively affected.. In the EU, our products are marketed through various channels and within different legal frameworks.  In certain EU member states, reimbursement for unauthorized products may be provided through national named patient programs.  Such reimbursement may no longer be available if authorization for named patient programs expire or are terminated or when marketing authorization is granted.  In other EU member states, authorization and reimbursement policies may also delay commercialization of our products, or may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis.  After initial price and reimbursement approvals, reductions in prices and changes in reimbursement levels can be triggered by multiple factors, including reference pricing systems and publication of discounts by third party payors or authorities in other countries.  In the EU, prices can be reduced further by parallel distribution and parallel trade, or arbitrage between low-priced and high-priced member states.  Any cost containment measures, including those listed above, or other healthcare system reforms that are adopted, could negatively affect our growth prospects in Europe.. We are unable to predict what additional legislation, regulations or policies, if any, relating to the healthcare industry or third party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation, regulations or policies would have on our business.  Moreover, we cannot be sure that third party payor reimbursement amounts, or the lack of reimbursement, will not reduce the demand for, or the price of, our products.  If reimbursement is not available or is available only at limited levels, we may not be able to effectively commercialize our products.  Our business could be materially harmed if the Medicaid program, Medicare program or other third party payors in the U.S. or elsewhere were to deny reimbursement for our products, limit the indications for which our products will be reimbursed, or provide reimbursement only on unfavorable terms.  Sales of our products depend on the availability and extent of access and reimbursement coverage from third party payors, but pricing and reimbursement pressures due to increasing media and government scrutiny of drug costs may affect our profitability.. Product liability and product recalls could harm our business.. The development, manufacture, testing, marketing and sale of pharmaceutical products are associated with significant risks of product liability claims or recalls.  Side effects or adverse events known or reported to be associated with, or manufacturing defects in, the products sold by us could exacerbate a patient's condition, or could result in serious injury or impairments or even death.  This could result in product liability claims and/or recalls of one or more of our products.  Some of our products, including Xyrem and Prialt, have boxed warnings in their labels.  In addition, in the EU, Defitelio's label includes an inverted black triangle that indicates the product is subject to additional monitoring to permit quick identification of new safety information, as a condition of authorization of Defitelio under \"exceptional circumstances.\"  In many countries, including in EU member states, national laws provide for strict (no-fault) liability which applies even where damages are caused both by a defect in a product and by the act or omission of a third party.. Product liability claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief for themselves or by groups seeking to represent a class of injured patients.  Further, third party payors, either individually or as a putative class, may bring actions seeking to recover monies spent on one of our products.  The risk of product liability claims may also increase if a company receives a warning letter from a regulatory agency.  Product liability claims are an inherent risk in our business, but we cannot predict the frequency, outcome or cost to defend any such claims.. Product liability insurance coverage is expensive, can be difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all.  Our product liability insurance may not cover all of the future liabilities we might incur in connection with the development, manufacture or sale of our products.  In addition, we may not continue to be able to obtain insurance on satisfactory terms or in adequate amounts.. A successful claim or claims brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage could subject us to significant liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.  Such claims could also harm our reputation and the reputation of our products, adversely affecting our ability to market our products successfully.  In addition, defending a product liability lawsuit is expensive and can divert the attention of key employees from operating our business.. 69. Table of Contents. Product recalls may be issued at our discretion or at the discretion of our suppliers, government agencies and other entities that have regulatory authority for pharmaceutical sales.  Any recall of our products could materially adversely affect our business by rendering us unable to sell that product for some time and by adversely affecting our reputation.  A recall could also result in product liability claims by individuals and third party payors.  In addition, product liability claims could result in an investigation of the safety or efficacy of our products, our manufacturing processes and facilities, or our marketing programs conducted by the FDA, the EMA, or the competent authorities of the EU member states.  Such investigations could also potentially lead to a recall of our products or more serious enforcement actions, limitations on the indications for which they may be used, or suspension, variation, or withdrawal of approval.  Any such regulatory action by the FDA, the EC or the competent authorities of the EU member states could lead to product liability lawsuits as well.. We use hazardous materials in our manufacturing facilities, and any claims relating to the improper handling, storage, release or disposal of these materials could be time-consuming and expensive.. Our operations are subject to complex and increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the countries where we operate and, in particular, in Italy and Ireland where we have manufacturing facilities.  Environmental and health and safety authorities in the relevant jurisdictions administer laws governing, among other matters, the emission of pollutants into the air (including the workplace), the discharge of pollutants into bodies of water, the storage, use, handling and disposal of hazardous substances, the exposure of persons to hazardous substances, and the general health, safety and welfare of employees and members of the public.  In certain cases, laws may impose strict liability for pollution of the environment and contamination resulting from spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous substances or waste or any migration of such hazardous substances or waste.  Costs, damages and/or fines may result from the presence, investigation and remediation of such contamination at properties currently or formerly owned, leased or operated by us or at off-site locations, including where we have arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances or waste.  In addition, we may be subject to third party claims, including for natural resource damages, personal injury and property damage, in connection with such contamination.  Our manufacturing activities in Italy and Ireland involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of chemicals and solvents.  Even if our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by EU laws, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from hazardous materials.  If an accident occurs, an injured party could seek to hold us liable for any damages that result and any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance.  We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or at all.  We may incur significant costs to comply with current or future EU environmental laws.. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Results. We have incurred substantial debt, which could impair our flexibility and access to capital and adversely affect our financial position.. As of December 31, 2017, we had total indebtedness of approximately $1.8 billion, which included $676.8 million in outstanding term loan indebtedness under a secured credit agreement that we entered into in June 2015 and subsequently amended in July 2016, which we refer to as the amended credit agreement, $575.0 million of outstanding indebtedness under our 1.875% exchangeable senior notes due 2021, or the 2021 Notes, which were issued in August 2014, and $575.0 million of outstanding indebtedness under our 1.50% exchangeable senior notes due 2024, or the 2024 Notes, which were issued in August 2017 and which we refer to, together with the 2021 Notes, as the Exchangeable Senior Notes.. Our debt may:. • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes;. • limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes;. • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments;. • limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry;. • result in dilution to our existing shareholders in the event exchanges of the Exchangeable Senior Notes are settled in our ordinary shares;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and. • increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions.. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.  If we do not have sufficient funds to meet our debt service obligations, we may be required to refinance or restructure all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can assure you that we would be able to do in a timely manner, or at all.. 70. Table of Contents. Covenants in our amended credit agreement restrict our business and operations in many ways and if we do not effectively manage our covenants, our financial conditions and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The amended credit agreement provides for a $750.0 million principal amount term loan due in July 2021 and a $1.25 billion revolving credit facility, with any loans under such revolving credit facility due in July 2021, subject to early mandatory repayments under certain circumstances.  The amended credit agreement contains various covenants that, among other things, limit our ability and/or our restricted subsidiaries' ability to:. • incur or assume liens or additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons;. • issue redeemable preferred stock;. • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock;. • prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt;. • make loans, investments, acquisitions (including acquisitions of exclusive licenses) and capital expenditures;. • enter into agreements that restrict distributions from our subsidiaries;. • sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries;. • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and. • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person.. The amended credit agreement also includes financial covenants that require us to maintain a maximum secured leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio.  Our ability to comply with these financial covenants may be affected by events beyond our control.  In addition, the covenants under the amended credit agreement could restrict our operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take specified actions to take advantage of certain business opportunities that may be presented to us.  Our failure to comply with any of the covenants could result in a default under the amended credit agreement, which could permit the lenders to declare all or part of any outstanding borrowings to be immediately due and payable, or to refuse to permit additional borrowings under the revolving credit facility.  A default under the amended credit agreement could also lead to a default under other debt agreements or obligations, including the indentures governing the Exchangeable Senior Notes.. In addition, the holders of the Exchangeable Senior Notes have the ability to require us to repurchase their notes for cash if we undergo certain fundamental changes, such as specified change of control transactions, our liquidation or dissolution, or the delisting of our ordinary shares from The NASDAQ Global Select Market.  Moreover, upon exchange of the Exchangeable Senior Notes, unless we elect to cause to be delivered solely ordinary shares to settle such exchange, we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the Exchangeable Senior Notes being exchanged.  In this regard, it is our intent and policy to settle the principal amount of the Exchangeable Senior Notes in cash upon exchange.  However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make any required repurchases of surrendered Exchangeable Senior Notes or to pay cash upon exchanges of the Exchangeable Senior Notes.  Our failure to repurchase the Exchangeable Senior Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indentures governing the Exchangeable Senior Notes or to pay any cash payable on future exchanges of the Exchangeable Senior Notes as required by the indentures governing the Exchangeable Senior Notes would constitute a default under that indenture.  A default under those indentures could also lead to a default under other debt agreements or obligations, including the amended credit agreement.  If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the related indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our business.  In this regard, if we are unable to repay amounts under the amended credit agreement, the lenders under the amended credit agreement could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that debt, which would seriously harm our business.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt obligations.. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt will depend on our future financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control.  We may be unable to maintain a level of positive cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our debt.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our debt.  These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations.  In the absence of such cash flows and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations.  The amended credit agreement restricts our ability to dispose of assets, use the proceeds from any disposition of assets and refinance our indebtedness.  We may not be able to consummate or obtain proceeds from such dispositions, and any such proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.. 71. Table of Contents. In addition, our borrowings under the amended credit agreement are, and are expected to continue to be, at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk.  If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even if the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease.. To continue to grow our business, we will need to commit substantial resources, which could result in future losses or otherwise limit our opportunities or affect our ability to operate our business.. The scope of our business and operations has grown substantially since 2012 through a series of transactions, including the business combination between Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Azur Pharma Public Limited Company, or Azur Pharma, which we refer to as the Azur Merger, our acquisition of EUSA Pharma Inc., the Gentium Acquisition and the Celator Acquisition.  To continue to grow our business over the longer term, we will need to commit substantial additional resources to our business and execution of our strategy.  Our ongoing capital requirements will depend on many factors, including:. • the revenues from our commercial products, which may be affected by many factors, including the extent of generic or other competition for Xyrem or our other products;. • the cost of acquiring and/or in-licensing any new products and product candidates;. • the costs of our commercial operations;. • the scope, rate of progress, results and costs of our development and clinical activities;. • the cost and timing of obtaining regulatory approvals and of compliance with laws and regulations;. • the cost of preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights;. • the cost of investigations, litigation and/or settlements related to regulatory oversight and third party claims;. • the costs of integration activities related to any future strategic transactions we may engage in; and. • the costs arising from changes in laws and regulations, including, for example, healthcare reform legislation.. Our strategy includes the expansion of our business through the acquisition or in-licensing and development of additional marketed products or product candidates that are in late-stage development.  We cannot assure you that we will continue to identify attractive opportunities.  Even if appropriate opportunities are available, in order to compete successfully to acquire attractive products or product candidates in the current business climate, we may have to pay higher prices for assets than may have been paid historically, and we may not have the financial resources necessary to pursue them.  As a result, we may be unable to expand our business if we do not have sufficient capital or cannot borrow or raise additional capital on attractive terms.  Our substantial indebtedness may limit our ability to borrow additional funds for acquisitions or to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future acquisitions.  In addition, if we use a substantial amount of our funds to acquire or in-license products or product candidates, we may not have sufficient additional funds to conduct all of our operations in the manner we would otherwise choose.. We may not be able to access the capital and credit markets on terms that are favorable to us, or at all.. During the past several years, domestic and international financial markets have experienced extreme disruption from time to time, including, among other things, high volatility and significant declines in stock prices and severely diminished liquidity and credit availability for both borrowers and investors.  We expect to opportunistically seek access to the capital and credit markets to supplement our existing cash balances, cash we expect to generate from operations and funds available under our revolving credit facility to satisfy our needs for working capital, capital expenditures and debt service requirements or to continue to grow our business over the longer term through product acquisition and in-licensing, product development and clinical trials of product candidates, and expansion of our commercial operations.  In the event of adverse capital and credit market conditions, including as a result of the UK's withdrawal from the EU potentially contributing to instability in the global financial markets, we may not be able to obtain capital market financing or credit on favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and growth prospects.  Changes in our credit ratings issued by nationally recognized credit rating agencies could also adversely affect our cost of financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities.. We may not be able to successfully maintain our tax rates, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. We are incorporated in Ireland and maintain subsidiaries in North America and a number of other foreign jurisdictions.  As a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various jurisdictions where we operate.  We are able to achieve a low average tax rate through the performance of certain functions and ownership of certain assets in tax-efficient jurisdictions, together with intra-group service and transfer pricing agreements, each on an arm's length basis.  However, changes in tax laws in any of these jurisdictions could adversely affect our ability to do so in the future.  Taxing authorities, such as the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, actively audit and otherwise challenge these types of arrangements, and have done so in the pharmaceutical industry.  We are subject to reviews and audits by the IRS and other taxing authorities from time to time, and the IRS or other taxing authority may challenge our structure and transfer pricing arrangements through an audit or lawsuit.  For example, in December 2015, we received proposed tax assessment notices from the French tax authorities for 2012 and 2013 relating to certain transfer pricing adjustments.  The notices propose additional. 72. Table of Contents. taxes of approximately $45.9 million, including interest and penalties, through the date of the assessment translated at the foreign exchange rate at December 31, 2017.  Responding to or defending against this and other challenges from taxing authorities could be expensive and consume time and other resources, and divert management's time and focus from operating our business.  We generally cannot predict whether taxing authorities will conduct an audit or file a lawsuit challenging our structure, the cost involved in responding to any such audit or lawsuit, or the outcome.  If we are unsuccessful, we may be required to pay taxes for prior periods, interest, fines or penalties, and may be obligated to pay increased taxes in the future, any of which could require us to reduce our operating expenses, decrease efforts in support of our products or seek to raise additional funds.  Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. In addition, on December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Act was signed into law.  The legislation significantly changes U.S. tax law by, among other things, lowering the corporate income tax rate from a maximum of 35% to a flat 21%, implementing a modified territorial tax system, imposing a one-time transition tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries and changing the rules which determine whether a U.S. person is a U.S. shareholder of a controlled foreign corporation, or CFC, for 2017 and onwards.  Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the new federal tax law is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.  In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law.  The impact of this tax reform on holders of our ordinary shares is also uncertain and could be adverse.. The IRS may not agree with the conclusion that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes.. Although we are incorporated in Ireland, the IRS may assert that we should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal tax purposes pursuant to Section 7874 of the Code.  For U.S. federal tax purposes, a corporation generally is considered a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation.  Because we are an Irish incorporated entity, we would be classified as a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non-U.S. tax resident) under these rules.  Section 7874 of the Code provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes.  Because we indirectly acquired all of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc.'s assets through the acquisition of the shares of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. common stock in the Azur Merger, the IRS could assert that we should be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes under Section 7874.  For us to be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes under Section 7874 of the Code, either (1) the former stockholders of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. must have owned (within the meaning of Section 7874 of the Code) less than 80% (by both vote and value) of our ordinary shares by reason of holding shares in Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. after the Azur Merger (the \"ownership test\"), or (2) we must have substantial business activities in Ireland after the Azur Merger (taking into account the activities of our expanded affiliated group).  The Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. stockholders owned less than 80% of our share capital immediately after the Azur Merger by reason of their ownership of shares of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. common stock.  As a result, we believe that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes under current law.  It is possible that the IRS could disagree with the position that the ownership test is satisfied and assert that Section 7874 of the Code applies to treat us as a U.S. corporation following the Azur Merger.  There is limited guidance regarding the Code Section 7874 provisions, including the application of the ownership test described above.  The IRS continues to scrutinize transactions that are potentially subject to Section 7874, and has issued several sets of final and temporary regulations under Section 7874 since 2012.  In April 2016, the IRS issued temporary regulations under Section 7874 reflecting guidance that the IRS previously announced in notices dated September 2014 and November 2015, as well as additional rules.  In January 2017, the IRS issued final and temporary regulations under Section 7874 making further revisions to the prior guidance.  We do not expect these regulations to affect the U.S. tax consequences of the Azur Merger.  Nevertheless, new statutory and/or regulatory provisions under Section 7874 of the Code or otherwise could be enacted that adversely affect our status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, and any such provisions could have retroactive application to us, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc., our respective shareholders and/or the Azur Merger.  For more information, see the risk factor under the heading \"Future changes to the tax laws under which we expect to be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes or to other tax laws relating to multinational corporations could adversely affect us,\" in this Part I, Item 1A.. Section 7874 of the Code limits our U.S. affiliates' ability to utilize their U.S. tax attributes to offset certain U.S. taxable income, if any, generated by certain taxable transactions.. Following certain acquisitions of a U.S. corporation by a foreign corporation, Section 7874 of the Code can limit the ability of the acquired U.S. corporation and its U.S. affiliates to utilize U.S. tax attributes such as net operating losses, or NOLs, to offset U.S. taxable income resulting from certain transactions.  Based on the limited guidance available, this limitation applies to us.  As a result, after the Azur Merger, our U.S. affiliates have not been able and will continue to be unable, for a period of time, to utilize their U.S. tax attributes to offset their U.S. taxable income, if any, resulting from certain taxable transactions.  Notwithstanding this limitation, we plan to fully utilize our U.S. affiliates' U.S. NOLs prior to their expiration.  As a result of this limitation, however, it may take our U.S. affiliates longer to use their NOLs.  Moreover, contrary to these plans, it is possible that the limitation under Section 7874 of the Code on the utilization of U.S. tax attributes could prevent our. 73. Table of Contents. U.S. affiliates from fully utilizing their U.S. tax attributes prior to their expiration if our U.S. affiliates do not generate sufficient taxable income.. Our U.S. affiliates' ability to use their net operating losses to offset potential taxable income and related income taxes that would otherwise be due could be subject to further limitations if we do not generate taxable income in a timely manner or if the \"ownership change\" provisions of Sections 382 and 383 of the Code result in further annual limitations.. Our U.S. affiliates have a significant amount of NOLs.  Our ability to use these NOLs to offset potential future taxable income and related income taxes that would otherwise be due is dependent upon our generation of future taxable income before the expiration dates of the NOLs, and we cannot predict with certainty when, or whether, our U.S. affiliates will generate sufficient taxable income to use all of the NOLs.  Under the newly enacted U.S. Tax Act, federal NOLs incurred in 2018 and in future years may be carried forward indefinitely, but the deductibility of such federal NOLs is limited.  It is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the newly enacted federal tax law.  In addition, realization of NOLs to offset potential future taxable income and related income taxes that would otherwise be due is subject to annual limitations under the \"ownership change\" provisions of Sections 382 and 383 of the Code and similar state provisions, which may result in the expiration of additional NOLs before future utilization.  In general, an \"ownership change\" occurs if, during a three-year rolling period, there is a change of 50% or more in the percentage ownership of a company by 5% shareholders (and certain persons treated as 5% shareholders), as defined in the Code and the U.S. Treasury Department regulations, or Treasury Regulations, promulgated thereunder.  In this regard, we currently estimate that, as a result of these ownership change provisions, we have an annual limitation on the utilization of certain NOLs and credits of $410.6 million, before tax effect, for 2018, $30.7 million, before tax effect, for 2019 and a combined total of $311.0 million, before tax effect, for 2020 to 2032.. However, Sections 382 and 383 of the Code are extremely complex provisions with respect to which there are many uncertainties, and we have not requested a ruling from the IRS to confirm our analysis of the ownership change limitations related to the NOLs generated by our U.S. affiliates.  Therefore, we have not established whether the IRS would agree with our analysis regarding the application of Sections 382 and 383 of the Code.  If the IRS were to disagree with our analysis, or if our U.S. affiliates were to experience additional ownership changes in the future, we could be subject to further annual limitations on the use of the NOLs to offset potential taxable income and related income taxes that would otherwise be due.. Future changes to the tax laws under which we expect to be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes or to other tax laws relating to multinational corporations could adversely affect us.. As described above, under current law, we believe that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes.  However, changes to the Code or the Treasury Regulations or other IRS guidance promulgated thereunder, including under Section 7874 of the Code, could adversely affect our status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes or could otherwise affect our effective tax rate, and any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application.  Any future tax reform related to U.S. corporate tax residence, if enacted, could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our results of operations and financial condition.. The U.S. Congress, the EU, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development and other government agencies in jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business have also had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations.  One example is in the area of \"base erosion and profit shifting,\" where payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates.  As a result, the tax laws in Ireland, the U.S. and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect us.. We have significant intangible assets and goodwill.  Consequently, the future impairment of our intangible assets and goodwill may significantly impact our profitability.. Our intangible assets and goodwill are significant.  As of December 31, 2017, we had recorded $3.9 billion of intangible assets and goodwill related to our past acquisitions.  Intangible assets and goodwill are subject to an impairment analysis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable.  Additionally, goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are subject to an impairment test at least annually.. Events giving rise to impairment are an inherent risk in the pharmaceutical industry and cannot be predicted.  Our results of operations and financial position in future periods could be negatively impacted should future impairments of intangible assets or goodwill occur.. Our financial results have been and may continue to be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.. We have significant operations in Europe as well as in the U.S., but we report revenues, costs and earnings in U.S. dollars.  Our primary currency translation exposure relates to our subsidiaries that have functional currencies denominated in the euro.  Exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the euro have fluctuated and are likely to continue to fluctuate from period to period.  Because our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk as. 74. Table of Contents. the functional currency financial statements of non-U.S. subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.  To the extent that revenue and expense transactions are not denominated in the functional currency, we are also subject to the risk of transaction losses.  For example, because our Defitelio and Erwinase product sales outside of the U.S. and potential future sales of Vyxeos are or will be primarily denominated in the euro, our sales of those products have been and may continue to be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.  In this regard, when the U.S. dollar strengthens against a foreign currency, the relative value of sales made in the foreign currency decreases.  Conversely, when the U.S. dollar weakens against a foreign currency, the relative value of such sales increases.  Accordingly, increases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies, primarily the euro, could adversely affect our foreign revenues, perhaps significantly.  In addition, as we continue to expand our international operations, we will conduct more transactions in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which could increase our foreign currency exchange risk.  Given the volatility of exchange rates, as well as our expanding operations, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage currency transaction and/or translation risks.  We use foreign exchange forward contracts to manage currency risk primarily related to certain intercompany balances denominated in non-functional currencies.  These foreign exchange forward contracts are not designated as hedges.  Gains and losses on these derivative instruments are designed to offset gains and losses on the underlying balance sheet exposures.  Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares. The market price of our ordinary shares has been volatile and may continue to be volatile in the future, and the value of your investment could decline significantly.. The market price for our ordinary shares has fluctuated significantly from time to time, for example, varying between a high of $163.75 on April 28, 2017 and low of $111.89 on January 3, 2017 during the period from December 31, 2016 through December 31, 2017.  The market price of our ordinary shares is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations in response to market, industry and other factors, including the risk factors described above.  The stock market in general, including the market for life sciences companies, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies.  In particular, negative publicity regarding pricing and price increases by pharmaceutical companies has negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, the market for life sciences companies.  These broad market and industry factors have harmed, and in the future may seriously harm, the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance.. Our share price may be dependent upon the valuations and recommendations of the analysts who cover our business.  If our results do not meet these analysts' forecasts, the expectations of our investors or the financial guidance we provide to investors in any period, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline.  Our ability to meet analysts' forecasts, investors' expectations and our financial guidance is substantially dependent on our ability to maintain or increase sales of Xyrem and Defitelio and to successfully commercialize Vyxeos in the U.S.  In addition, we will need to minimize future supply disruptions of Erwinaze in order to meet revenue expectations for Erwinaze.  The risks and uncertainties associated with our ability to maintain or increase sales of Xyrem, Erwinaze, Defitelio and Vyxeos include those discussed elsewhere in these risk factors.  In the past, following periods of volatility in the market or significant price decline, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against companies.  Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. In addition, the market price of our ordinary shares may decline if the effects of our transactions, including the Celator Acquisition and/or potential future acquisitions, on our financial or operating results are not consistent with the expectations of financial analysts or investors.  The market price of our ordinary shares could also be affected by possible sales of our ordinary shares by holders of the Exchangeable Senior Notes who may view the Exchangeable Senior Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity involving our ordinary shares by the holders of the Exchangeable Senior Notes.. Future sales of our ordinary shares in the public market could cause our share price to fall.. Sales of a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the public market, including sales by members of our management or board of directors, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our ordinary shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity or equity-related securities.  As of February 20, 2018, we had 59,803,396 ordinary shares outstanding, all of which shares are eligible for sale in the public market, subject in some cases to the volume limitations and manner of sale and other requirements under Rule 144.  In addition, future issuances by us of our ordinary shares upon the exercise or settlement of equity-based awards and exchanges of the Exchangeable Senior Notes would dilute existing shareholders' ownership interests in our company, and any sales in the public market of these. 75. Table of Contents. ordinary shares, or the perception that these sales might occur, could also adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares.. Moreover, we have in the past and may in the future grant rights to some of our shareholders that require us to register the resale of our ordinary shares on behalf of these shareholders and/or facilitate offerings of ordinary shares held by these shareholders, including in connection with potential future acquisitions of additional products, product candidates or companies.  We have also filed registration statements to register the sale of our ordinary shares reserved for issuance under our equity incentive and employee stock purchase plans, and we intend to file additional registration statements to register any shares automatically added each year to the share reserves under these plans.. We are subject to Irish law, which differs from the laws in effect in the U.S. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities.. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the U.S. against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws.  In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws.  We have been advised that the U.S. currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters.  Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland.. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Act 2014, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits.  Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company are generally owed to the company only.  Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances.  Accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction.. Our articles of association, shareholder rights agreement, Irish law and the indentures governing the Exchangeable Senior Notes contain provisions that could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party.. Our articles of association could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our shareholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares.  For example, our articles of association:. • impose advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at shareholder meetings;. • stagger the terms of our board of directors into three classes;. • require the approval of a supermajority of the voting power of the shares of our share capital entitled to vote generally at a meeting of shareholders to amend or repeal our articles of association; and. • permit our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred shares with rights and preferences, as our shareholders may determine by ordinary resolution.. In April 2017, we adopted a shareholder rights agreement, or rights agreement, with a 12-month term under which shareholders have certain ordinary share purchase rights if a person or group acquires 10% (or 20% in the case of a \"13G Investor\" as defined in the rights agreement) or more of our outstanding ordinary shares without the prior approval of our board of directors.  Until its expiration, the rights agreement could make it more difficult for a person or group to acquire a majority of our outstanding ordinary shares, and could otherwise prevent or delay an acquisition of us.  The rights agreement could also reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for our ordinary shares and result in the market price of our ordinary shares being lower than it would be without the rights agreement.  In addition, the existence of the rights agreement itself may deter a potential acquiror from pursuing any acquisition of us at all.  As a result, either by operation of the rights agreement or by its potential deterrent effect, acquisitions of us that our shareholders may consider in their best interests may not occur.. In addition to our articles of association and the rights agreement, several mandatory provisions of Irish law could prevent or delay an acquisition of us.  For example, Irish law does not permit shareholders of an Irish public limited company to take action by written consent with less than unanimous consent, and the shareholder approval requirements for certain types of transactions differ from those in the U.S., and in some cases are greater, under Irish law.  We are also subject to various provisions of Irish law relating to mandatory bids, voluntary bids, requirements to make a cash offer and minimum price requirements, as well as substantial acquisition rules and rules requiring the disclosure of interests in our shares in certain circumstances.  Furthermore, the indentures governing the Exchangeable Senior Notes require us to repurchase the Exchangeable Senior Notes for cash if we undergo certain fundamental changes and, in certain circumstances, to increase the exchange rate for a holder of 2021 Notes or 2024 Notes.  A takeover of us may trigger the requirement that we purchase the. 76. Table of Contents. Exchangeable Senior Notes and/or increase the exchange rate, which could make it more costly for a potential acquiror to engage in a business combination transaction with us.. These provisions, whether alone or together, may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our ordinary shares at a premium over the market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our ordinary shares.  These provisions, whether alone or together, could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our shareholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our board.. We have never declared or paid dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future.. Other than funds we have allocated for the purposes of supporting our share repurchase program authorized in November 2016, we anticipate that we will retain all earnings, if any, to support our operations and our proprietary drug development programs, acquire or in-license additional products and product candidates, and pursue other opportunities.  If we propose to pay dividends in the future, we must do so in accordance with Irish law, which provides that distributions including dividend payments, share repurchases and redemptions be funded from \"distributable reserves.\"  In addition, our ability to pay cash dividends on or repurchase our ordinary shares is restricted under the terms of the amended credit agreement.  Any future determination as to the payment of dividends will, subject to Irish legal requirements, be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, compliance with the terms of the amended credit agreement and other factors our board of directors deems relevant.  Accordingly, holders of our ordinary shares must rely on increases in the trading price of their shares for returns on their investment in the foreseeable future.. A transfer of our ordinary shares may be subject to Irish stamp duty.. In certain circumstances, the transfer of shares in an Irish incorporated company will be subject to Irish stamp duty, which is a legal obligation of the buyer.  This duty is currently charged at the rate of 1.0% of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired, if higher.  Because our ordinary shares are traded on a recognized stock exchange in the U.S., an exemption from this stamp duty is available in respect of transfers by shareholders who hold our ordinary shares beneficially through brokers which in turn hold those shares through the Depository Trust Company, or DTC, to holders who also hold through DTC.  However, a transfer by or to a record holder who holds our ordinary shares directly in his, her or its own name could be subject to this stamp duty.  We, in our absolute discretion and insofar as the Irish Companies Act 2014 or any other applicable law permits, may, or may provide that a subsidiary of ours will, pay Irish stamp duty arising on a transfer of our ordinary shares on behalf of the transferee of such ordinary shares.  If stamp duty resulting from the transfer of our ordinary shares which would otherwise be payable by the transferee is paid by us or any of our subsidiaries on behalf of the transferee, then in those circumstances, we will, on our behalf or on behalf of our subsidiary (as the case may be), be entitled to (i) seek reimbursement of the stamp duty from the transferee, (ii) set-off the stamp duty against any dividends payable to the transferee of those ordinary shares and (iii) claim a first and permanent lien on the ordinary shares on which stamp duty has been paid by us or our subsidiary for the amount of stamp duty paid.  Our lien shall extend to all dividends paid on those ordinary shares.. Dividends paid by us may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax.. In certain circumstances, as an Irish tax resident company, we will be required to deduct Irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders.  Shareholders that are resident in the U.S., EU countries (other than Ireland) or other countries with which Ireland has signed a tax treaty (whether the treaty has been ratified or not) generally should not be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax so long as the shareholder has provided its broker, for onward transmission to our qualifying intermediary or other designated agent (in the case of shares held beneficially), or us or our transfer agent (in the case of shares held directly), with all the necessary documentation by the appropriate due date prior to payment of the dividend.  However, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares."
