[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. The following are factors that could have a significant impact on our operations and financial results and could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed in any forward-looking statements.. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry. We may require additional financing to fund our operations and capital expenditures.. On December 14, 2016, we paid a dividend in an amount equal to $5.3 million to our stockholders. As of March 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $8.6 million and restricted cash of approximately $3.6 million. There can be no assurance that our available cash, together with resources from our operations, will be sufficient to fund our operations and capital expenditures. In addition, our cash position may decline in the future, and we may not be successful in maintaining an adequate level of cash resources. Treasure Success entered into a secured credit facility with Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation (“HSBC”) for up to a minimum of $20,000,000 (the “Secured Credit Facility”) to finance the working capital needs of the Company. The Secured Credit Facility consists of (i) an $8,000,000 import credit facility with HSBC entered into on May 29, 2017 and (ii) a $12,000,000 invoice discounting/factoring facility entered into on August 21, 2017. As of March 31, 2018, we had incurred $980,195 of indebtedness under the Secured Credit Facility. In addition, we may be required to seek additional debt or equity financing in order to support our growing operations. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms, or at all, and any new equity financing could have a substantial dilutive effect on our existing stockholders. If we cannot obtain additional financing, we may not be able to achieve our desired sales growth, and our results of operations would be negatively affected.. Defaults under the Secured Credit Facility could result in a foreclosure on our assets by our lender which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. The Secured Credit Facility is guaranteed by us and Jerash Garments, as well as by our significant stockholders Mr. Choi Lin Hung, our chairman, chief executive officer, president, treasurer and a significant stockholder, and Mr. Ng Tsze Lun, a significant stockholder, whose interests may differ from the other stockholders of the Company as a result of their personal guarantees. The Secured Credit Facility is collateralized by a blanket security interest and includes various financial and other covenants. If in the future we default under the Secured Credit Facility, our lender could, among other things, declare our debt to be immediately due and payable. If this were to occur, we would be unable to repay our bank debt in full unless we could sell sufficient assets or obtain new financing through a replacement credit facility or equity transaction. If a new credit facility could be obtained, it is likely that it would have higher interest rates and impose significant additional restrictions and requirements on us. There is no assurance that we would be able to obtain a waiver or amendment from our lender or obtain replacement debt financing or issue sufficient equity securities to refinance these facilities. If we are unable to pay off the facility, our lender could foreclose on our assets, which may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. 8. We rely on one key customer for substantially all of our revenue. We cannot assure you that this customer or any other customer will continue to buy our products in the same volumes or on the same terms.. Our sales to VF Corporation (which owns brands such as The North Face, Nautica, Timberland, Wrangler, Lee and Jansport), directly and indirectly, accounted for approximately 79% of our total sales in both fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018. From an accounting perspective, we are considered the primary obligor in our relationship with VF Corporation. We bear the credit and inventory risk, and we have the right to determine the price and to change our product. Therefore, we present the sales and related manufacturing activities on a gross basis.. We are not party to any long-term contracts with VF Corporation or our other customers, and our sales arrangements with our customers do not have minimum purchase requirements. As is common in our industry, VF Corporation and our other customers place purchase orders with us after we complete detailed sample development and approval processes. It is through these sample development and approval processes that we and VF Corporation agree to the purchase and manufacture of the garments in question. From April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018, VF Corporation issued approximately 6,500 purchase orders to us in amounts ranging from approximately $10 to $570,000. We are not substantially dependent on any particular order from VF Corporation.. We cannot assure you that our customers will continue to buy our products at all or in the same volumes or on the same terms as they have in the past. The failure of VF Corporation to continue to buy our products in the same volumes and on the same terms as in the past may significantly reduce our sales and our earnings.. A material decrease in the quantity of sales made to our principal customers, a material adverse change in the terms of such sales or a material adverse change in the financial condition of our principal customers could significantly reduce our sales and our earnings.. We cannot assure you that VF Corporation will continue to purchase our merchandise at the same historical rate, or at all, in the future, or that we will be able to attract new customers. In addition, because of our reliance on VF Corporation as our key customer and their bargaining power with us, VF Corporation has the ability to exert significant control over our business decisions, including prices.. Any adverse change in our relationship with VF Corporation and its The North Face brand, or with their strategies or reputation, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Substantially all of our products are sold under The North Face brand, which is owned by VF Corporation. Any adverse change in our relationship with VF Corporation would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if either VF Corporation’s or The North Face brand’s images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted.. If we lose our key customer and are unable to attract new customers, then our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.. If our key customer, VF Corporation, fails to purchase our merchandise at the same historical rate, or at all, we will need to attract new customers and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. We do not currently invest significant resources in marketing our products, and we cannot assure you that any new investments in sales and marketing will lead to the acquisition of additional customers or increased sales or profitability consistent with prior periods. If we are unable to attract new customers or customers that generate comparable profit margins to VF Corporation, then our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. If we lose our larger brand and retail nominations or customers, or the customers fail to purchase our products at anticipated levels, our sales and operating results will be adversely affected.. 9. Our results of operations depend to a significant extent upon the commercial success of our larger brand name customers. If we lose our significant brand nominations, our customers fail to purchase our products at anticipated levels, or our relationship with these customers or the brands and retailers they serve diminishes, it may have an adverse effect on our results and we may lose a primary source of revenue. In addition, we may not be able to recoup development and inventory costs associated with these customers and we may not be able to collect our receivables from them, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. If the market share of our customers declines, our sales and earnings may decline.. Our sales can be adversely affected in the event that our direct and indirect customers do not successfully compete in the markets in which they operate. In the event that the sales of one of our major customers decline for any reason, regardless of whether it is related to us or to our products, our sales to that customer may also decline, which could reduce our overall sales and our earnings.. We have historically depended on a related party for substantially all of our sales.. Until August 2016, substantially all of our sales were made to a related party, Ford Glory, who then sold our products to the end customers. Ford Glory is 49% owned by Mr. Choi Lin Hung, our chairman, chief executive officer, president, treasurer and a significant stockholder, through his wholly-owned entity Merlotte. Thereafter, we began conducting business directly with our customers and no longer through our affiliate, Ford Glory. Following August 1, 2016, there was a transition period for orders placed directly with Ford Glory. For fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018, approximately 37.6% and 0%, respectively, of our net sales were made to Ford Glory, who then sold our products to our customers. Approximately 52.6% and 63.5% of our net sales for fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018, respectively, were made directly to our customers with the support of Ford Glory.. While we intend in the future to continue to sell our products directly to our customers, there can be no guarantee that we will effectively make such a transition or that our customers will continue to purchase merchandise from us at the same rate as they have historically purchased from Ford Glory, or at all.. Because we have depended on related parties as suppliers, we may not be able to obtain materials when we need them and we may lose sales and customers.. For fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018, we purchased approximately 24% and 5%, and 0% and 0%, respectively, of our raw materials from two major suppliers that are considered our related parties, Value Plus (Macao Commercial Offshore) Limited (“VPMCO”) and Ford Glory. VPMCO and Ford Glory are each 49% owned by Mr. Choi Lin Hung, our chairman, chief executive officer, president, treasurer and a significant stockholder in us through his wholly-owned entity Merlotte.. Historically, we have purchased these raw materials directly from our related party suppliers, who in turn purchased those raw materials from the approved suppliers for our end customers. We have not entered into any contracts with our related party suppliers. While we intend in the future to continue to purchase raw materials directly from the approved suppliers for our products, there can be no guarantee that we will effectively make such a transition. Shortages or disruptions in the supply of materials from our related party suppliers, or our inability to procure materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could lead us to miss deadlines for orders and lose sales and customers.. We may have conflicts of interest with our affiliates and related parties, and in the past we have engaged in transactions and entered into agreements with affiliates that were not negotiated at arms’ length.. We have engaged, and may in the future engage, in transactions with affiliates and other related parties. These transactions may not have been, and may not be, on terms as favorable to us as they could have been if obtained from non-affiliated persons. While an effort has been made and will continue to be made to obtain services from affiliated persons and other related parties at rates and on terms as favorable as would be charged by others, there will always be an inherent conflict of interest between our interests and those of our affiliates and related parties. Through his wholly-owned entity Merlotte, Mr. Choi Lin Hung, our chairman, chief executive officer, president, treasurer and a significant stockholder, has an indirect ownership interest in certain of the companies, including Ford Glory and VPMCO, with which we have, or in the future may have, such agreements or arrangements. In addition, we have entered into agreements with Victory Apparel, which is wholly-owned by Mr. Choi Lin Hung and Mr. Lee Kian Tjiauw, significant stockholders. We anticipate renewing the terms of our Secured Credit Facility to extend its term and expect that the personal guarantees of Mr. Choi and Mr. Ng Tsze Lun, a significant stockholder, will be released in exchange for Treasure Success and Jerash Holdings agreeing to guarantee the amounts under the Secured Credit Facility. The release of these guarantees will personally benefit Mr. Choi and Mr. Ng but will require Jerash Holdings and Treasurer Success to incur potential liability in connection with their guarantee. Our majority stockholders may economically benefit from our arrangements with related parties. If we engage in related party transactions on unfavorable terms, the Company’s operating results will be negatively impacted.. 10. Our revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of our business.. A significant portion of our revenues are received during the first six months of our fiscal year, or from April through September. A majority of our VF Corporation orders are derived from winter season fashions, the sales of which occur in the spring and summer and are merchandized by VF Corporation during the autumn months (September through November). As such, the second half of our fiscal year reflect lower sales in anticipation of the spring and summer seasons.. We are dependent on a single product segment comprised of a limited number of products.. Presently, our product offering is limited primarily to outerwear from knitted fabric. A shift in demand from such products may reduce the growth of new business for our products, as well as reduce existing business in those products. If demand in outerwear made from knitted fabric were to decline, we may endeavor to expand or transition our product offerings to other segments of the clothing retail industry. There can be no assurance that we would be able to successfully make such an expansion or transition, or that our sales and margins would not decline in the event we made such an expansion or transition.. Our direct and indirect customers are in the clothing retail industry, which is subject to substantial cyclical variations and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our direct and indirect customers are in the clothing retail industry, which is subject to substantial cyclical variations and is strongly affected by any downturn or slowdown in the general economy.  Factors in the clothing retail industry that may influence our operating results from quarter to quarter include:. ·the volume and timing of customer orders we receive during the quarter;. ·the timing and magnitude of our customers’ marketing campaigns;. ·the loss or addition of a major customer or of a major retailer nomination;. ·the availability and pricing of materials for our products;. ·the increased expenses incurred in connection with introducing new products;. ·currency fluctuations;. ·political factors that may affect the expected flow of commerce; and. ·delays caused by third parties.. In addition, uncertainty over future economic prospects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the clothing retail industry, including, among others:. ·general business conditions;. ·interest rates;. ·the availability of consumer credit;. ·taxation; and. ·consumer confidence in future economic conditions.. 11. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our products, may decline during recessionary periods and also may decline at other times when disposable income is lower. Consequently, our customers may have larger inventories of our products than expected, and to compensate for any downturn they may reduce the size of their orders, change the payment terms, limit their purchases to a lower price range and try to change their purchase terms, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The clothing retail industry is subject to changes in fashion preferences. If our customers misjudge a fashion trend or the price which consumers are willing to pay for our products decreases, our revenues could be adversely affected.. The clothing retail industry is subject to changes in fashion preferences. We design and manufacture products based on our customers’ judgment as to what products will appeal to consumers and what price consumers would be willing to pay for our products. Our customers may not be successful in accurately anticipating consumer preferences and the prices that consumers would be willing to pay for our products. Our revenues will be reduced if our customers are not successful, particularly if our customers reduce the volume of their purchases from us or require us to reduce the prices at which we sell our products.. If we experience product quality or late delivery problems, or if we experience financial problems, our business will be negatively affected.. We may from time to time experience difficulties in making timely delivery of products of acceptable quality. Such difficulties may result in cancellation of orders, customer refusal to accept deliveries or reductions in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will not experience difficulties with manufacturing our products.. We face intense competition in the worldwide apparel manufacturing industry.. We compete directly with a number of manufacturers of sport and outerwear from knitted fabric. Some of these manufacturers have a lower cost base than us, longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater geographical proximity to customers and greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Increased competition, direct or indirect, could reduce our revenues and profitability through pricing pressure, loss of market share and other factors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors, as the market for our products evolves and the level of competition increases. We believe that our business will depend upon our ability to provide apparel products of good quality and meeting our customers’ pricing and delivery requirements, as well as our ability to maintain relationships with our major customers. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in this regard.. In addition, our customers operate in an intensely competitive retail environment. In the event that any of our customers’ sales decline for any reason, whether or not related to us or to our products, our sales to such customers could be materially reduced, which will have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We have previously experienced material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to establish and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately and timely disclose information about our financial results or prevent fraud. Any inability to accurately and timely disclose financial results could harm our business and reputation and cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. A system of financial controls and procedures is necessary to ensure that information about our financial results is recorded, processed, summarized and reported in an accurate and timely fashion. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. If we cannot disclose required information or provide reliable financial reports, we may not be able to manage our business as effectively as we would if an effective control environment existed, and our business and reputation may be harmed. Our independent registered public accounting firm previously identified that we had a material weakness because we lacked sufficient personnel with an appropriate level of knowledge of accounting principles generally accepted by the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) and financial reporting. Although we have taken certain steps to address this deficiency, it is possible that we may have a material weakness identified in the future if the controls and procedures we have implemented are inadequate. We are undertaking a review of our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Rule 404 and will implement any changes recommended by the review.. 12. Our results of operations are subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.. Exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Jordanian dinar or Hong Kong dollar, as well as inflation in Jordan or Hong Kong, may negatively affect our earnings. A substantial majority of our revenues and a substantial portion of our expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. However, a significant portion of the expenses associated with our Jordanian or Hong Kong operations, including personnel and facilities-related expenses, are incurred in Jordanian dinar or Hong Kong dollars, respectively. Consequently, inflation in Jordan or Hong Kong will have the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations in Jordan and Hong Kong, respectively, unless it is offset on a timely basis by a devaluation of the Jordanian dinar or Hong Kong dollar, as applicable, relative to the U.S. dollar. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Jordan or Hong Kong or the rate of devaluation of the Jordanian dinar or Hong Kong dollar, as applicable, against the U.S. dollar. In addition, we are exposed to the risk of fluctuation in the value of the Jordanian dinar and Hong Kong dollar vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar. There can be no assurance that the Jordanian dinar and Hong Kong dollar will remain effectively pegged to the U.S. dollar. Any significant appreciation of the Jordanian dinar or Hong Kong dollar against the U.S. dollar would cause an increase in our Jordanian dinar or Hong Kong dollar expenses, as applicable, as recorded in our U.S. dollar denominated financial reports, even though the expenses denominated in Jordanian dinar or Hong Kong dollars, as applicable, will remain unchanged. In addition, exchange rate fluctuations in currency exchange rates in countries other than Jordan where we operate and do business may also negatively affect our earnings.. We are subject to the risks of doing business abroad.. All of our products are manufactured outside the United States, at our subsidiaries’ production facilities in Jordan. Foreign manufacturing is subject to a number of risks, including work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions, political instability, foreign currency fluctuations, economic disruptions, expropriation, nationalization, the imposition of tariffs and import and export controls, changes in governmental policies (including U.S. policy towards Jordan) and other factors, which could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may be subject to risks associated with the availability of and time required for the transportation of products from foreign countries. The occurrence of certain of these factors may delay or prevent the delivery of goods ordered by customers, and such delay or inability to meet delivery requirements would have a severe adverse impact on our results of operations and could have an adverse effect on our relationships with our customers.. Our ability to benefit from the lower labor costs in Jordan will depend on the political, social and economic stability of Jordan and in the Middle East in general. We cannot assure you that the political, economic or social situation in Jordan or in the Middle East in general will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, especially in light of the potential for hostilities in the Middle East. The success of the production facilities also will depend on the quality of the workmanship of laborers and our ability to maintain good relations with such laborers in these countries. We cannot guarantee that our operations in Jordan or any new locations outside of Jordan will be cost-efficient or successful.. U.S. Federal Income Tax Reforms could adversely affect us.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “TCJ Act”). The TCJ Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system and includes a Transition Toll Tax (the “Toll Charge”), which is a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on accumulated foreign subsidiaries’ previously untaxed foreign earnings. The Toll Charge will be paid over an eight-year period, starting in 2018, and will not accrue interest. The TCJ Act also imposed a global intangible low-taxed income tax (“GILTI”), which is a new tax on certain off-shore earnings at an effective rate of 10.5% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017 (increasing to 13.125% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2025) with a partial offset for foreign tax credits. Our preliminary estimate of the Toll Charge is subject to the finalization of management’s analysis related to certain matters, such as developing interpretations of the provisions of the TCJ Act, changes to certain estimates and amounts related to the earnings and profits of certain subsidiaries, and the filing of our tax returns. U.S. Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions interpreting the TCJ Act may require further adjustments and changes in our estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial conditions. While we do not anticipate that the GILTI will have a material impact on our financial results, we may have to accrue for GILTI in fiscal 2019, which will have an impact on our financial results for fiscal 2019.. 13. Our business could suffer if we violate labor laws or fail to conform to generally accepted labor standards or the ethical standards of our customers.. We are subject to labor laws issued by the Jordanian Ministry of Labor for our facilities in Jordan. In addition, many of our customers require their manufacturing suppliers to meet their standards for working conditions and other matters. If we violate applicable labor laws or generally accepted labor standards or the ethical standards of our customers by, for example, using forced or indentured labor or child labor, failing to pay compensation in accordance with local law, failing to operate our factories in compliance with local safety regulations, or diverging from other labor practices generally accepted as ethical, we could suffer a loss of sales or customers. In addition, such actions could result in negative publicity and may damage our reputation and discourage retail customers and consumers from buying our products.. Our products may not comply with various industry and governmental regulations and our customers may incur losses in their products or operations as a consequence of our non-compliance.. Our products are produced under strict supervision and controls to ensure that all materials and manufacturing processes comply with the industry and governmental regulations governing the markets in which these products are sold. However, if our controls fail to detect or prevent non-compliant materials from entering the manufacturing process, our products could cause damages to our customers’ products or processes and could also result in fines being incurred. The possible damages, replacement costs and fines could significantly exceed the value of our products and these risks may not be covered by our insurance policies.. We depend on our suppliers for machinery and maintenance of machinery. We may experience delays or additional costs satisfying our production requirements due to our reliance on these suppliers.. We purchase machinery and equipment used in our manufacturing process from third party suppliers. If our suppliers are not able to provide us with maintenance, additional machinery or equipment as needed, we might not be able to maintain or increase our production to meet any demand for our products, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We are a holding company and rely on dividends, distributions and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations.. We are a holding company that does not conduct any business operations of our own. As a result, we rely on cash dividends and distributions and other transfers from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations. The deterioration of income from, or other available assets of, our operating subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us, which in turn could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Periods of sustained economic adversity and uncertainty could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Disruptions in the financial markets, such as what occurred in the global markets in 2008, may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit for our customers and prospective customers, which could result in the delay or cancellation of customer purchases. In addition, disruptions in the financial markets may have an adverse impact on regional and world economies and credit markets, which could negatively impact the availability and cost of capital for us and our customers. These conditions may reduce the willingness or ability of our customers and prospective customers to commit funds to purchase our services or products, or their ability to pay for our services after purchase. These conditions could result in bankruptcy or insolvency for some customers, which would impact our revenue and cash collections. These conditions could also result in pricing pressure and less favorable financial terms to us and our ability to access capital to fund our operations.. 14. Risks Related to Operations in Jordan. We are affected by conditions to, and possible reduction of, free trade agreements.. We benefit from exemptions from customs duties and import quotas due to our location in Al Tajamouat Industrial City, a Qualifying Industrial Zone in Amman, Jordan, and the free trade agreements with the United States. QIZs are industrial parks that house manufacturing operations in Jordan and Egypt. They are special free trade zones established in collaboration with Israel to take advantage of the free trade agreements between the United States and Israel. Under the trade agreement between Jordan and the United States, goods produced in QIZ areas can directly access U.S. markets without tariff or quota restrictions if they satisfy certain criteria. If there is a change in such benefits or if any such agreements were terminated, our profitability may be reduced.. President Donald Trump expresses antipathy towards existing and proposed trade agreements, has called for greater restrictions on free trade generally, has announced significant increases on tariffs on goods imported into the United States, and has withdrawn the United States from certain trade agreements including the Trans-Pacific Partnership. It remains unclear what specifically President Trump would or would not do with respect to trade agreements, tariffs and duties relating to products manufactured in Jordan. If President Trump takes action or publicly speaks out about the need to terminate or re-negotiate existing free trade agreements on which we rely, or in favor of restricting free trade or increasing tariffs and duties applicable to our products, such actions may adversely affect our sales and have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and cash flows.. Our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected in the event we are unable to operate our principal production facilities in Amman, Jordan.. All of our manufacturing process is performed in a complex of production facilities located in Amman, the capital of Jordan. We have no effective back-up for these operations and, in the event that we are unable to use the production facilities located in Amman, Jordan as a result of damage or for any other reason, our ability to manufacture a major portion of our products and our relationships with customers could be significantly impaired, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operation.. Our operations in Jordan may be adversely affected by social and political uncertainties or change, military activity, health-related risks or acts of terrorism.. From time to time Jordan has experienced instances of civil unrest, terrorism and hostilities among neighboring countries, including Syria and Israel. A peace agreement between Israel and Jordan was signed in 1994. Terrorist attacks, military activity, rioting, or civil or political unrest in the future could influence the Jordanian economy and our operations by disrupting operations and communications and making travel within Jordan more difficult and less desirable. In late May 2018, protests about a proposed tax bill began throughout Jordan. On June 5, 2018, King Abdullah II of Jordan responded to the protests by removing and replacing Jordan’s prime minister. If political uncertainty rises in Jordan, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively impacted.. Political or social tensions also could create a greater perception that investments in companies with Jordanian operations involve a high degree of risk, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We do not have insurance for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist attacks, military conflicts and wars, which could subject us to significant financial losses. The realization of any of these risks could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may face interruption of production and services due to increased security measures in response to terrorism.. Our business depends on the free flow of products and services through the channels of commerce. In response to terrorists’ activities and threats aimed at the United States, transportation, mail, financial and other services may be slowed or stopped altogether. Extensive delays or stoppages in transportation, mail, financial or other services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may experience an increase in operating costs, such as costs for transportation, insurance and security as a result of the activities and potential delays. We may also experience delays in receiving payments from payors that have been affected by the terrorist activities. The United States economy in general may be adversely affected by terrorist activities and any economic downturn could adversely impact our results of operations, impair our ability to raise capital or otherwise adversely affect our ability to grow our business.. 15. We are subject to regulatory and political uncertainties in Jordan.. We conduct substantially all of our business and operations in Jordan. Consequently, government policies and regulations, including tax policies, in Jordan will impact our financial performance and the market price of our common stock.. Jordan is a constitutional monarchy, but the King holds wide executive and legislative powers. The ruling family has taken initiatives that support the economic growth of the country. However, there is no assurance that such initiatives will be successful or will continue. The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting manufacturing companies, foreign investments, currency exchange rates and other matters affecting investments in Jordan could change as well. A significant change in Jordan’s economic policy or any social or political uncertainties that impact economic policy in Jordan could adversely affect business and economic conditions in Jordan generally and our business and prospects.. If we violate applicable anti-corruption laws or our internal policies designed to ensure ethical business practices, we could face financial penalties and reputational harm that would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws in the United States and Jordan. Jordan’s reputation for potential corruption and the challenges presented by Jordan’s complex business environment, including high levels of bureaucracy, red tape, and vague regulations, may increase our risk of violating applicable anti-corruption laws. We face the risk that we, our employees or any third parties such as our sales agents and distributors that we engage to do work on our behalf may take action determined to be in violation of anti-corruption laws in any jurisdiction in which we conduct business, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (“FCPA”). Any violation of the FCPA or any similar anti-corruption law or regulation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil or criminal penalties and curtailment of operations that might harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our stockholders may face difficulties in protecting their interests and exercising their rights as a stockholder of ours because we conduct substantially all of our operations in Jordan and certain of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States.. Certain of our officers and directors reside outside the United States. Therefore, our stockholders may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in any of these jurisdictions based upon U.S. laws, including the federal securities laws or other foreign laws against us, our officers and directors. Furthermore, we conduct substantially all of our operations in Jordan through our operating subsidiaries. Because the majority of our assets are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or certain of our directors and officers may not be collectible within the United States.. Risk Factors Relating to our Securities. If we fail to comply with the continuing listing standards of the Nasdaq, our common stock could be delisted from the exchange.. If we were unable to meet the Nasdaq continued listing requirements, our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq. Any such delisting of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of, and the efficiency of the trading market for, our common stock, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and less coverage of us by securities analysts, if any. Also, if in the future we were to determine that we need to seek additional equity capital, being delisted from Nasdaq could have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital in the public or private equity markets.. 16. Our majority stockholders will control the Company for the foreseeable future, including the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval.. Three of our stockholders beneficially own approximately 71.5% of our outstanding common stock as of June 28, 2018 our other stockholders do not have any ability to exercise control over us, and such entities and individuals will have the ability, acting together, to elect all of our directors and to substantially influence the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, such as: (i) a merger or a sale of the Company, (ii) a sale of all or substantially all of our assets; and (iii) amendments to our corporate documents. This concentration of voting power and control could have a significant effect in delaying, deferring or preventing an action that might otherwise be beneficial to our other stockholders and be disadvantageous to our stockholders with interests different from those entities and individuals.. Our stockholders’ ownership interest in us may be diluted by exercises of currently outstanding or committed warrants.. We have granted warrants to purchase up to 71,100 units to designees of the placement agent in connection with a private placement offering that we initially closed on May 15, 2017 and had subsequent closings on August 18, 2017 and September 27, 2017 (the “Private Placement”). Each unit consists of one share of our common stock and one warrant (with each such warrant being immediately exercisable for one-tenth of one share of common stock at an exercise price of $6.25 per share for a period of five years from the issuance date). The private placement agent warrants are exercisable with respect to 48,600 units beginning on July 15, 2017 and expiring on May 15, 2022, 18,000 units beginning on October 18, 2017 and expiring on August 18, 2022, and 4,500 units beginning on November 27, 2017 expiring on September 27, 2022. The private placement agent’s warrants are exercisable at a price per unit equal to $5.50.. Also in connection with the Private Placement, we issued five-year warrants to purchase up to 79,000 shares of our common stock to various accredited investors at an exercise price of $6.25 per share. Such warrants expire on May 15, 2022 with respect to 54,000 warrants, August 18, 2022 with respect to 20,000 warrants, and September 27, 2022 with respect to 5,000 warrants. We have also issued a five-year warrant to our board observer to purchase up to 50,000 shares of common stock. The warrant has an exercise price of $5.00 per share and may be converted by means of a cashless exercise during the term of the warrant. This warrant may be exercised any time until May 15, 2022.. Finally, in connection with our initial public offering, we issued to the underwriter and its affiliates warrants to purchase 57,200 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $8.75 per share and an expiration date of May 2, 2023.. To the extent any of the foregoing warrants are exercised, our stockholders’ ownership interest in us will be diluted, which may reduce the market price of our common stock.. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. We may issue additional securities in the future. Pursuant to our 2018 Stock Incentive Plan, we may issue up to 1,484,250 shares of common stock to certain members of management and key employees of the Company.. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase our common stock could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. We may sell common stock, convertible securities and other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner as we may determine from time to time. If we sell any such securities, our stockholders may be materially diluted. New investors in any future transactions could gain rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock.. 17. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about us, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our common stock, our stock price and trading volume of our common stock could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us, our industry and our market. If no analyst elects to cover us and publish research or reports about us, the market for our common stock could be severely limited and our stock price could be adversely affected. In addition, if one or more analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. If one or more analysts who elect to cover us issue negative reports or adversely change their recommendations regarding our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline.. The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner.. We are required to comply with the laws, regulations, requirements and certain corporate governance provisions under the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements will occupy a significant amount of time of our board of directors and management, and will significantly increase our costs and expenses and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In connection with becoming a reporting company, we will need to continue or begin:. ·instituting a more comprehensive compliance function;. ·preparing and distributing periodic and current reports under the federal securities laws;. ·establishing new internal policies, such as those related to insider trading; and. ·involving and retaining outside counsel and accountants to a greater degree than before we became a reporting company.. Our ongoing compliance efforts will increase general and administrative expenses and may divert management’s time and attention from the development of our business, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We estimate that we may incur approximately $600,000 in costs during the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019 in connection with becoming a public company.. Our lack of experienced accounting staff may impact our ability to report our future financial results on a timely and accurate basis, and we need to retain the services of additional accountants and consultants with the required accounting experience and expertise.. With the exception of our chief financial officer, our accounting and finance staff lacks depth and skill in the application of U.S. GAAP with respect to external financial reporting for Exchange Act reporting companies. We intend to engage the services of additional accounting personnel and expert consultants to assist with our financial accounting and reporting requirements to develop our internal control over financial reporting and to produce timely financial reports. Until we do so, we may experience difficulty producing reliable and timely financial statements, which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our stock to decline significantly, reduce the likelihood that we would be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, and harm our business and financial condition.. We will not be required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until the end of the second fiscal year reported on our second annual report on Form 10-K.. We will not be required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019. In addition, as a smaller reporting company, we are not required to obtain an auditor attestation of management’s evaluation of internal controls over financial reporting once such internal controls are in place. As a result, we may fail to identify and remediate a material weakness or deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting, which may cause our financial statements and related disclosure to contain material misstatements and could cause delays in filing required financial statements and related reports. Furthermore, the process of designing and implementing internal controls over financial reporting may divert our internal resources and take a significant amount of time and expense to complete. The actual or perceived risk associated with our lack of internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could negatively impact the market for our common stock and cause us to be unable to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all, which could cause harm to our business and financial condition.. 18. The reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors, which may lead to volatility and a decrease in the market price of our common stock.. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from reporting requirements that apply to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. Investors may find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions, which include not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. If investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of exemptions and reduced disclosure requirements, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile or may decrease."
