[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to JetBlue. We operate in an extremely competitive industry.. The domestic airline industry is characterized by low profit margins, high fixed costs and significant price competition in an increasingly concentrated competitive field.  We currently compete with other airlines on all of our routes.  Most of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources and name recognition than we do.  Following our entry into new markets or expansion of existing markets, some of our competitors have chosen to add service or engage in extensive price competition.  Unanticipated shortfalls in expected revenues as a result of price competition or in the number of passengers carried would negatively impact our financial results and harm our business.  The extremely competitive nature of the airline industry could prevent us from attaining the level of passenger traffic or maintaining the level of fares required to maintain profitable operations in new and existing markets and could impede our profitable growth strategy, which would harm our business.. Furthermore, there have been numerous mergers and acquisitions within the airline industry in recent years.   The industry may continue to change.  Any business combination could significantly alter industry conditions and competition within the airline industry and could cause fares of our competitors to be reduced.  Additionally, if a traditional network airline were to fully develop a low cost structure, or if we were to experience increased competition from low cost carriers, our business could be materially adversely affected.. Our business is highly dependent on the availability of fuel and fuel is subject to price volatility.. Our results of operations are heavily impacted by the price and availability of fuel.  Fuel costs comprise a substantial portion of our total operating expenses.  Historically, fuel costs have been subject to wide price fluctuations based on geopolitical factors as well as supply and demand.  The availability of fuel is not only dependent on crude oil but also on refining capacity.  When even a small amount of the domestic or global oil refining capacity becomes unavailable, supply shortages can result for extended periods of time.  The availability of fuel is also affected by demand for home heating oil, gasoline and other petroleum products, as well as crude oil reserves, dependence on foreign imports of crude oil and potential hostilities in oil producing areas of the world.  Because of the effects of these factors on the price and availability of fuel, the cost and future availability of fuel cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty.. 17. Our aircraft fuel purchase agreements do not protect us against price increases or guarantee the availability of fuel.  Additionally, some of our competitors may have more leverage than we do in obtaining fuel.  We have and may continue to enter into a variety of option contracts and swap agreements for crude oil, heating oil, and jet fuel to partially protect against significant increases in fuel prices.  However, such contracts and agreements do not completely protect us against price volatility, are limited in volume and duration in the respective contract, and can be less effective during volatile market conditions and may carry counterparty risk.  Under the fuel hedge contracts we may enter from time to time, counterparties to those contracts may require us to fund the margin associated with any loss position on the contracts if the price of crude oil falls below specified benchmarks.  Meeting our obligations to fund these margin calls could adversely affect our liquidity.. Due to the competitive nature of the domestic airline industry, at times we have not been able to adequately increase our fares to offset the increases in fuel prices nor may we be able to do so in the future.  Future fuel price increases, continued high fuel price volatility or fuel supply shortages may result in a curtailment of scheduled services and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We have a significant amount of fixed obligations and we will incur significantly more fixed obligations which could harm our ability to service our current obligations or satisfy future fixed obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, our debt of $1.2 billion accounted for 21% of our total capitalization.  In addition to long-term debt, we have a significant amount of other fixed obligations under operating leases related to our aircraft, airport terminal space, airport hangers, other facilities and office space.  As of December 31, 2017, future minimum payments under noncancelable leases and other financing obligations were approximately $3.3 billion for 2018 through 2022 and an aggregate of $1.6 billion for the years thereafter.  T5 at JFK is under a lease with the PANYNJ that ends on the 28th anniversary of the date of beneficial occupancy of T5i.  The minimum payments under this lease are being accounted for as a financing obligation and have been included in the future minimum payment totals above.. As of December 31, 2017, we had commitments of approximately $7.3 billion to purchase 119 additional aircraft, ten spare engines and various aircraft modifications through 2024, including estimated amounts for contractual price escalations.  We may incur additional debt and other fixed obligations as we take delivery of new aircraft or finance unencumbered aircraft in our fleet and other equipment and continue to expand into new or existing markets.  In an effort to limit the incurrence of significant additional debt, we may seek to defer some of our scheduled deliveries, sell or lease aircraft to others, or pay cash for new aircraft, to the extent necessary or possible.  The amount of our existing debt, and other fixed obligations, and potential increases in the amount of our debt and other fixed obligations could have important consequences to investors and could require a substantial portion of cash flows from operations for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes.. Our level of debt and other fixed obligations could:. •impact our ability to obtain additional financing to support capital expansion plans and for working capital and other purposes on acceptable terms or at all;. •divert substantial cash flow from our operations, execution of our commercial initiatives and expansion plans in order to service our fixed obligations;. •require us to incur significantly more interest expense than we currently do if rates were to increase, since approximately 15% of our debt has floating interest rates; and. •place us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors and competitors with better access to capital resources or more favorable financing terms.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt and other fixed obligations will depend on our future operating performance and cash flows, which in turn will depend on prevailing economic and political conditions and financial, competitive, regulatory, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.  We are principally dependent upon our operating cash flows and access to the capital markets to fund our operations and to make scheduled payments on debt and other fixed obligations.  We cannot assure you we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations or from capital market activities to pay our debt and other fixed obligations as they become due.  If we fail to do so our business could be harmed.  If we are unable to make payments on our debt and other fixed obligations, we could be forced to renegotiate those obligations or seek to obtain additional equity or other forms of additional financing.. 18. Our level of indebtedness may limit our ability to incur additional debt to obtain future financing needs.. We typically finance our aircraft through either secured debt, lease financing or through cash from operations.  The impact on financial institutions from global economic conditions may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to JetBlue as well as to prospective purchasers of our aircraft should we undertake to sell in the future, including financing commitments we have already obtained for purchases of new aircraft or financing or refinancing of existing aircraft.  To the extent we finance our activities with additional debt, we may become subject to financial and other covenants that may restrict our ability to pursue our strategy or otherwise constrain our operations.. Our maintenance costs will increase as our fleet ages.. Our maintenance costs will increase as our fleet ages.  In the past, we have incurred lower maintenance expenses because most of the parts on our aircraft were under multi-year warranties, but many of these warranties have expired.  If any maintenance provider with whom we have a flight hour agreement fails to perform or honor such agreements, we could incur higher interim maintenance costs until we negotiate new agreements.. Furthermore we expect to implement various fleet modifications over the next several years to ensure our aircraft's continued efficiency, modernization, brand consistency and safety.  Our plans to restyle our Airbus aircraft with new cabins, for example, may require significant modification time.  These fleet modifications may require significant investment over several years, including taking aircraft out of service for several weeks at a time.. Our salaries, wages and benefits costs will increase as our workforce ages.. As our Crewmembers' tenure with JetBlue matures, our salaries, wages and benefits costs increase.  As our overall workforce ages, we expect our medical and related benefits to increase as well, despite an increased corporate focus on Crewmember wellness.. We may be subject to unionization, work stoppages, slowdowns or increased labor costs and the unionization of the Company's pilots could result in increased labor costs.. Our business is labor intensive and the unionization of any of our Crewmembers could result in demands that may increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any of the different crafts or classes of our Crewmembers could unionize at any time, which would require us to negotiate in good faith with the Crewmember group's certified representative concerning a collective bargaining agreement. In addition, we may be subject to disruptions by unions protesting the non-union status of our other Crewmembers. Any of these events would be disruptive to our operations and could harm our business.. In general, unionization has increased costs in the airline industry. On April 22, 2014, approximately 74% of our pilots voted to be represented by the Airlines Pilot Association, or ALPA. During 2015, we began negotiations with the union regarding a collective bargaining agreement which remain ongoing. If we are unable to reach agreement on the terms of a collective bargaining agreement, or we experience wide-spread Crewmember dissatisfaction, we could be subject to adverse actions. In December 2017, the Transport Workers Union of America (TWU) filed for an election, the next step in its long-running effort to unionize our Inflight workgroup. Any of these events could result in increased labor costs or reduced efficiency, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. There are risks associated with our presence in some of our international emerging markets, including political or economic instability and failure to adequately comply with existing legal and regulatory requirements.. Expansion into new international emerging markets may have risks due to factors specific to those markets.  Emerging markets are countries which have less developed economies and may be vulnerable to economic and political instability, such as significant fluctuations in gross domestic product, interest and currency exchange rates, civil disturbances, government instability, nationalization and expropriation of private assets, trafficking and the imposition of taxes or other charges by governments.  The occurrence of any of these events in markets served by us and the resulting instability may adversely affect our business.. 19. We have expanded and expect to continue to expand our service to countries in the Caribbean and Latin America, some of which have less developed legal systems, financial markets, and business and political environments than the United States, and therefore present greater political, legal, regulatory, economic and operational risks.  We emphasize legal compliance and have implemented and continue to implement and refresh policies, procedures and certain ongoing training of Crewmembers with regard to business ethics and compliance, anti-corruption policies and many key legal requirements; however, there can be no assurance our Crewmembers or third party service providers in such locations will adhere to our code of business conduct, anti-corruption policies, other Company policies, or other legal requirements.  If we fail to enforce our policies and procedures properly or maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions, we may be subject to sanctions.  In the event we believe or have reason to believe our Crewmembers have or may have violated applicable laws or regulations, we may be subject to investigation costs, potential penalties and other related costs which in turn could negatively affect our reputation, and our results of operations and cash flow.. In addition, to the extent we continue to grow our business both domestically and internationally, opening new markets requires us to commit a substantial amount of resources even before the new services commence.  Expansion is also dependent upon our ability to maintain a safe and secure operation and requires additional personnel, equipment and facilities.. Our high aircraft utilization rate helps us keep our costs low, but also makes us vulnerable to delays and cancellations; such delays and cancellations could reduce our profitability.. We maintain a high daily aircraft utilization rate which is the amount of time our aircraft spend in the air carrying passengers.  High daily aircraft utilization is achieved in part by reducing turnaround times at airports so we can fly more hours on average in a day.  Aircraft utilization is reduced by delays and cancellations from various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions, security requirements, air traffic congestion and unscheduled maintenance events.  The majority of our operations are concentrated in the Northeast and Florida, which are particularly vulnerable to weather and congestion delays.  Reduced aircraft utilization may limit our ability to achieve and maintain profitability as well as lead to Customer dissatisfaction.. Our business is highly dependent on the New York metropolitan market and increases in competition or congestion or a reduction in demand for air travel in this market, or governmental reduction of our operating capacity at JFK, would harm our business.. We are highly dependent on the New York metropolitan market where we maintain a large presence with approximately one-half of our daily flights having JFK, LaGuardia, Newark, Westchester County Airport or Newburgh's Stewart International Airport as either their origin or destination.  We have experienced an increase in flight delays and cancellations at these airports due to airport congestion which has adversely affected our operating performance and results of operations.  Our business could be further harmed by an increase in the amount of direct competition we face in the New York metropolitan market or by continued or increased congestion, delays or cancellations.  Our business would also be harmed by any circumstances causing a reduction in demand for air transportation in the New York metropolitan area, such as adverse changes in local economic conditions, health concerns, negative public perception of New York City, acts of terrorism or significant price or tax increases linked to increases in airport access costs and fees imposed on passengers.. Extended interruptions or disruptions in service at one or more of our focus cities could have a material adverse impact on our operations.. Our business is heavily dependent on our operations in the New York Metropolitan area, particularly at JFK, and at our other focus cities in Boston, Orlando, Fort Lauderdale, the Los Angeles basin and San Juan, Puerto Rico. Each of these operations includes flights that gather and distribute traffic to other major cities. A significant interruption or disruption in service at one or more of our focus cities could have a serious impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The second half of 2017 had unprecedented weather events, particularly in Florida and the Caribbean. Hurricanes Irma and Maria resulted in over 2,500 canceled flights or 3% of departures.  Following large weather events, it is common to see lingering demand impact similar to what we experienced in New York, following superstorm Sandy in 2012. In the Caribbean, we believe the full recovery in Puerto Rico, in the wake of Hurricane Maria, will take several more months.. We rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business; any failure of these systems could harm our business.. 20. We are dependent on automated systems and technology to operate our business, enhance the JetBlue Experience and achieve low operating costs.  The performance and reliability of our automated systems and data centers is critical to our ability to operate our business and compete effectively.  These systems include our computerized airline reservation system, flight operations system, telecommunications systems, website, maintenance systems, check-in kiosks, and our primary and redundant data centers.  Our website and reservation system must be able to securely accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight information.  These systems require upgrades or replacement periodically, which involve implementation and other operational risks.  Our business may be harmed if we fail to operate, replace or upgrade our systems or data center infrastructure successfully.. We rely on third party providers of our current automated systems and data center infrastructure for technical support.   If our current providers were to fail to adequately provide technical support for any one of our key existing systems or if new or updated components were not integrated smoothly, we could experience service disruptions, which could result in the loss of important data, increase our expenses, decrease our revenues and generally harm our business, reputation and brand.  Furthermore, our automated systems cannot be completely protected against events beyond our control, including natural disasters, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, other security breaches, or telecommunications failures.  Substantial or sustained system failures could impact customer service and result in our Customers purchasing tickets from other airlines.  We have implemented security measures and change control procedures and have disaster recovery plans.  We also require our third party providers to have disaster recovery plans; however, we cannot assure you these measures are adequate to prevent disruptions, which, if they were to occur, could result in the loss of important data, increase our expenses, decrease our revenues and generally harm our business, reputation and brand.. We may be impacted by increases in airport expenses relating to infrastructure and facilities.. In order to operate within our current markets as well as continue to grow in new markets, we must be able to obtain adequate infrastructure and facilities within the airports we serve.  This includes gates, check-in facilities, operations facilities and landing slots, where applicable.  The costs associated with these airports are often negotiated on a short-term basis with the airport authority and we could be subject to increases in costs on a regular basis with or without our approval.. In addition, our operations concentrated in older airports may be harmed if the infrastructure at those older airports fails to operate as expected due to age, overuse or significant unexpected weather events.. Our reputation and business may be harmed and we may be subject to legal claims if there is loss, unlawful disclosure or misappropriation of, or unsanctioned access to, our Customers', Crewmembers', business partners' or our own information or other breaches of our information security.. In the current environment, there are numerous and evolving risks to cybersecurity and privacy, including criminal hackers, hactivists, state-sponsored intrusions, industrial espionage, employee malfeasance and human or technological error.  High-profile security breaches at other companies and in government agencies have increased in recent years, and security industry experts and government officials have warned about the risks of hackers and cyberattacks targeting businesses such as ours.  Computer hackers and others routinely attempt to breach the security of technology products, services and systems, and to fraudulently induce employees, customers, or others to disclosure information or unwittingly provide access to systems or data.  We make extensive use of online services and centralized data processing, including through third party service providers or business providers. The secure maintenance and transmission of Customer and Crewmember information is a critical element of our operations.  Our information technology and other systems and those of service providers or business partners, that maintain and transmit customer information, may be compromised by a malicious third party penetration of our network security, or of a business partner, or impacted by deliberate or inadvertent actions or inactions by our Crewmembers, or those of a business partner.  The risk of cyberattacks to our Company also includes attempted breaches of contractors, business partners, vendors and other third parties.  As a result, personal information may be lost, disclosed, accessed or taken without consent.. We transmit confidential credit card information by way of secure private retail networks and rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission and storage of confidential information.  The Company has made significant efforts to secure its computer network.  If any compromise of our security or computer network were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the reputation, business, operating results and financial condition of the Company, and could result in a loss of Customers.  Additionally, any material failure by the Company to achieve or maintain compliance with the Payment Card Industry, or PCI, security requirements or rectify a security issue may result in fines and the imposition of restrictions on the Company's ability to accept credit cards as a form of payment.. 21. Any such loss, disclosure or misappropriation of, or access to, Customers', Crewmembers' or business partners' information or other breach of our information security can result in legal claims or legal proceedings, including regulatory investigations and actions, may have a negative impact on our reputation, may lead to regulatory enforcement actions against us, and may materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.  Furthermore, the loss, disclosure or misappropriation of our business information may materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.  The regulations in this area continue to develop and evolve.  International regulation adds complexity as we expand our service and include more passengers from other countries.. Data security compliance requirements could increase our costs, and any significant data breach could disrupt our operations and harm our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company is subject to increasing legislative, regulator and customer focus on privacy issues and data security.  Our business requires the appropriate and secure utilization of Customer, Crewmember, business partner and other sensitive information. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities (including cyber-attacks or cyber intrusions over the Internet, malware, computer viruses and the like), discovery of new vulnerabilities or attempts to exploit existing vulnerabilities in our systems, other data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access and store sensitive information. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased.. Furthermore, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data security in the U.S. and abroad, including requirements for varying levels of customer notification in the event of a data breach.Many of our commercial partners, including credit card companies, have imposed data security standards that we must meet. In particular, we are required by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council, founded by the credit card companies, to comply with their highest level of data security standards. The Company will continue its efforts to meet its privacy and data security obligations; however, it is possible that certain new obligations may be difficult to meet and could increase the Company's costs.. A significant data security breach or our failure to comply with applicable U.S. or foreign data security regulations or other data security standards may expose us to litigation, claims for contract breach, fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could disrupt our operations, harm our reputation and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to address these issues appropriately could also give rise to additional legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur further related costs and expenses.. Our liquidity could be adversely impacted in the event one or more of our credit card processors were to impose material reserve requirements for payments due to us from credit card transactions.. We currently have agreements with organizations that process credit card transactions arising from purchases of air travel tickets by our Customers.  Credit card processors have financial risk associated with tickets purchased for travel which can occur several weeks after the purchase.  Our credit card processing agreements provide for reserves to be deposited with the processor in certain circumstances.  We do not currently have reserves posted for our credit card processors.  If circumstances were to occur requiring us to deposit reserves, the negative impact on our liquidity could be significant which could materially adversely affect our business.. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel or fail to maintain our company culture, our business could be harmed.. We compete against other major U.S. airlines for pilots, mechanics and other skilled labor; some of them offer wage and benefit packages exceeding ours.  As more pilots in the industry approach mandatory retirement age, the U.S. airline industry may be affected by a pilot shortage.  We may be required to increase wages and/or benefits in order to attract and retain qualified personnel or risk considerable Crewmember turnover.  If we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified Crewmembers, our business could be harmed and we may be unable to implement our growth plans.. In addition, as we hire more people and grow, we believe it may be increasingly challenging to continue to hire people who will maintain our company culture.  We believe one of our competitive strengths is our service-oriented company culture which emphasizes friendly, helpful, team-oriented and customer-focused Crewmembers.  Our company culture is important to providing high quality customer service and having a productive workforce in order to help keep our costs low.  As we continue to grow, we may be unable to identify, hire or retain enough people who meet the above criteria, including those in management or other key positions.  Our company culture could otherwise be adversely affected by our growing operations and broader geographic diversity.  If we fail to maintain the strength of our company culture, our competitive ability and our business may be harmed.. 22. Our results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality, weather and other factors.. We expect our quarterly operating results to fluctuate due to seasonality including high vacation and leisure demand occurring on our Florida routes between October and April and on our western routes during the summer.  Actions of our competitors may also contribute to fluctuations in our results.  We are more susceptible to adverse weather conditions, including snow storms and hurricanes, as a result of our operations being concentrated on the East Coast, than some of our competitors. Our Florida and Caribbean operations are subject to hurricanes.  As we enter new markets we could be subject to additional seasonal variations along with any competitive responses to our entry by other airlines.  Price changes in aircraft fuel as well as the timing and amount of maintenance and advertising expenditures also impact our operations.  As a result of these factors, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indicator of our future performance.  In addition, it is possible in any future period our operating results could be below the expectations of investors and any published reports or analysis regarding JetBlue.  In such an event, the price of our common stock could decline, perhaps substantially.. We are subject to the risks of having a limited number of suppliers for our aircraft, engines and our Fly-Fi\231 product.. Our current dependence on three types of aircraft and engines for all of our flights makes us vulnerable to significant problems associated with the International Aero Engines, or IAE V2533-A5 engine on our Airbus A321 fleet, the International Aero Engines, or IAE V2527-A5 engine on our Airbus A320 fleet and the General Electric Engines CF34-10 engine on our Embraer E190 fleet.  This could include design defects, mechanical problems, contractual performance by the manufacturers, or adverse perception by the public which would result in Customer avoidance or in actions by the FAA resulting in an inability to operate our aircraft.  Carriers operating a more diversified fleet are better positioned than we are to manage such events.. Our Fly-Fi\231 service uses technology and satellite access through our agreement with LiveTV.  An integral component of the Fly-Fi\231 system is the antenna, which is supplied to us by LiveTV.  If LiveTV were to stop supplying us with its antennas for any reason, we would have to incur significant costs to procure an alternate supplier.  Additionally, if the satellites Fly-Fi\231 uses were to become inoperable for any reason, we would have to incur significant costs to replace the service.. Our reputation and financial results could be harmed in the event of an accident or incident involving our aircraft.. An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft could involve significant potential claims of injured passengers or others in addition to repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss from service.  We are required by the DOT to carry liability insurance.  Although we believe we currently maintain liability insurance in amounts and of the type generally consistent with industry practice, the amount of such coverage may not be adequate and we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident or incident.  Substantial claims resulting from an accident or incident in excess of our related insurance coverage would harm our business and financial results.  Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured, could cause a public perception we are less safe or reliable than other airlines which would harm our business.. Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of the JetBlue brand.. The JetBlue brand name symbolizes high-quality friendly customer service, innovation, fun, and a pleasant travel experience.  JetBlue is a widely recognized and respected global brand; the JetBlue brand is one of our most important and valuable assets.  The JetBlue brand name and our corporate reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them.  Adverse publicity, whether or not justified, relating to activities by our Crewmembers, contractors or agents could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand.  Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand.. We may be subject to competitive risks due to the long term nature of our fleet order book.. At present, we have existing aircraft commitments through 2024.  As technological evolution occurs in our industry, through the use of composites and other innovations, we may be competitively disadvantaged because we have existing extensive fleet commitments that would prohibit us from adopting new technologies on an expedited basis.. 23. Risks Associated with the Airline Industry. The airline industry is particularly sensitive to changes in economic condition.. Fundamental and permanent changes in the domestic airline industry have been ongoing over the past several years as a result of several years of repeated losses, among other reasons.  These losses resulted in airlines renegotiating or attempting to renegotiate labor contracts, reconfiguring flight schedules, furloughing or terminating Crewmembers, as well as considering other efficiency and cost-cutting measures.  Despite these actions, several airlines have reorganized under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code to permit them to reduce labor rates, restructure debt, terminate pension plans and generally reduce their cost structure.  Since 2005, the U.S. airline industry has experienced significant consolidation and liquidations.  A global economic recession and related unfavorable general economic conditions, such as higher unemployment rates, a constrained credit market, housing-related pressures, and increased business operating costs can reduce spending for both leisure and business travel.  Unfavorable economic conditions could also impact an airline's ability to raise fares to counteract increased fuel, labor, and other costs.  It is possible that further airline reorganizations, consolidation, bankruptcies or liquidations may occur in the current global economic environment, the effects of which we are unable to predict.  We cannot assure you the occurrence of these events, or potential changes resulting from these events, will not harm our business or the industry.. A future act of terrorism, the threat of such acts or escalation of U.S. military involvement overseas could adversely affect our industry.. Acts of terrorism, the threat of such acts or escalation of U.S. military involvement overseas could have an adverse effect on the airline industry.  In the event of an act of terrorism, whether or not successful, the airline industry would likely experience increased security requirements and significantly reduced demand.  We cannot assure you these actions, or consequences resulting from these actions, will not harm our business or the industry.. Changes in government regulations imposing additional requirements and restrictions on our operations could increase our operating costs and result in service delays and disruptions.. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal requirements, both domestically and internationally, involving significant compliance costs. In the last several years, Congress has passed laws, and the agencies of the federal government, including, but not limited to, the DOT, FAA, CBP and the TSA have issued regulations relating to the operation of airlines that have required significant expenditures. We expect to continue to incur expenses in connection with complying with government regulations. Additional laws including executive orders, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce the demand for air travel. If adopted or materially amended, these measures could have the effect of raising ticket prices affecting the perception of the airline industry, reducing air travel demand and/or revenue and increasing costs. We cannot assure you these and other laws including executive orders, regulations or taxes enacted in the future will not harm our business.. In addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, has proposed changes to underground storage tank regulations that could affect certain airport fuel hydrant systems. In addition to the proposed EPA and state regulations, several U.S. airport authorities are actively engaged in efforts to limit discharges of de-icing fluid to local groundwater, often by requiring airlines to participate in the building or reconfiguring of airport de-icing facilities.. Federal budget constraints or federally imposed furloughs due to budget negotiation deadlocks may adversely affect our industry, business, results of operations and financial position.. Many of our airline operations are regulated by governmental agencies, including the FAA, the DOT, the CBP, the TSA and others.  If the federal government were to experience issues in reaching budgetary consensus in the future resulting in mandatory furloughs and/or other budget constraints, our operations and results of operations could be materially negatively impacted.  The travel behaviors of the flying public could also be affected, which may materially adversely impact our industry and our business.. Compliance with future environmental regulations may harm our business.. Many aspects of airlines' operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations, and growing concerns about climate change may result in the imposition of additional regulation. Since the domestic airline industry is increasingly price sensitive, we may not be able to recover the cost of compliance with new or more stringent environmental laws and regulations from our Customers, which could adversely affect our business.  Although it is not expected the costs of complying with current environmental regulations will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, no assurance can be made the costs of complying with environmental regulations in the future will not have such an effect.. 24. We may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such change.. Concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant U.S. and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas (\"GHG\") emissions, including our aircraft emissions.  In October 2016, the ICOA passed a resolution adopting the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (\"CORSIA\"), which is a global, market-based emissions offset program to encourage carbon-neutral grown beyond 2020.  CORISA is scheduled to take effect by 2021.  ICAO continues to develop details regarding implementation, but we believe compliance with CORSIA will increase our operating costs.. We could be adversely affected by an outbreak of a disease or an environmental disaster that significantly affects travel behavior.. Any outbreak of a disease affecting travel behavior could have a material adverse impact on airlines.  In addition, outbreaks of disease could result in quarantines of our personnel or an inability to access facilities or our aircraft, which could adversely affect our operations.  Similarly, if an environmental disaster were to occur and adversely impact any of our destination cities, travel behavior could be affected and in turn, could materially adversely impact our business."
