[1] "ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS. Risks Relating to Business Operations. General economic, credit and capital market conditions could adversely affect our financial performance, our ability to grow or sustain our businesses and our ability to access the capital markets.. We compete around the world in various geographic regions and product markets. Global economic conditions affect each of our primary businesses. As we discuss in greater detail in the specific risk factors for each of our businesses that appear below, any future financial distress in the industries and/or markets where we compete could negatively affect our revenues and financial performance in future periods, result in future restructuring charges, and adversely impact our ability to grow or sustain our businesses.. The capital and credit markets provide us with liquidity to operate and grow our businesses beyond the liquidity that operating cash flows provide. A worldwide economic downturn and/or disruption of the credit markets could reduce our access to capital necessary for our operations and executing our strategic plan. If our access to capital were to become significantly constrained, or if costs of capital increased significantly due to lowered credit ratings, prevailing industry conditions, the volatility of the capital markets or other factors; then our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. 7. Some of the industries in which we operate are cyclical and, accordingly, demand for our products and services could be adversely affected by downturns in these industries.. Much of the demand for installation of HVAC, security products, and fire detection and suppression solutions is driven by commercial and residential construction and industrial facility expansion and maintenance projects. Commercial and residential construction projects are heavily dependent on general economic conditions, localized demand for commercial and residential real estate and availability of credit. Commercial and residential real estate markets are prone to significant fluctuations in supply and demand. In addition, most commercial and residential real estate developers rely heavily on project financing in order to initiate and complete projects. Declines in real estate values could lead to significant reductions in the availability of project financing, even in markets where demand may otherwise be sufficient to support new construction. These factors could in turn hamper demand for new HVAC, fire detection and suppression and security installations.. Levels of industrial capital expenditures for facility expansions and maintenance turn on general economic conditions, economic conditions within specific industries we serve, expectations of future market behavior and available financing. Additionally, volatility in commodity prices can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders.. The businesses of many of our industrial customers, particularly oil and gas companies, chemical and petrochemical companies, mining and general industrial companies, are to varying degrees cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. During such economic downturns, customers in these industries historically have tended to delay major capital projects, including greenfield construction, maintenance projects and upgrades. Additionally, demand for our products and services may be affected by volatility in energy and commodity prices and fluctuating demand forecasts, as our customers may be more conservative in their capital planning, which may reduce demand for our products and services. Although our industrial customers tend to be less dependent on project financing than real estate developers, disruptions in financial markets and banking systems could make credit and capital markets difficult for our customers to access, and could significantly raise the cost of new debt for our customers. Any difficulty in accessing these markets and the increased associated costs can have a negative effect on investment in large capital projects, including necessary maintenance and upgrades, even during periods of favorable end-market conditions.. Many of our customers outside of the industrial and commercial sectors, including governmental and institutional customers, have experienced budgetary constraints as sources of revenue have been negatively impacted by adverse economic conditions. These budgetary constraints have in the past and may in the future reduce demand for our products and services among governmental and institutional customers.. Reduced demand for our products and services could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed costs. This reduced demand may also erode average selling prices in the industries we serve. Any of these results could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Decreased demand from our customers in the automotive industry may adversely affect our results of operations.. Our financial performance in the Power Solutions business depends, in part, on conditions in the automotive industry. Sales to OEMs accounted for approximately 24% of the total sales of the Power Solutions business in fiscal 2017. Declines in the North American, European and Asian automotive production levels could reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if any OEMs reach a point where they cannot fund their operations, we may incur write-offs of accounts receivable, incur impairment charges or require additional restructuring actions beyond our current restructuring plans, which, if significant, would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. An inability to successfully respond to competition and pricing pressure from other companies in the Power Solutions business may adversely impact our business.. Our Power Solutions business competes with a number of major U.S. and non-U.S. manufacturers and distributors of lead-acid batteries, as well as a large number of smaller, regional competitors. The North American, European and Asian lead-acid battery markets are highly competitive. The manufacturers in these markets compete on price, quality, technical innovation, service and warranty. If we are unable to remain competitive and maintain market share in the regions and markets we serve, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. 8. Volatility in commodity prices may adversely affect our results of operations.. Increases in commodity costs can negatively impact the profitability of orders in backlog as prices on such orders are typically fixed; therefore, in the short-term we cannot adjust for changes in certain commodity prices. In these cases, if we are not able to recover commodity cost increases through price increases to our customers on new orders, then such increases will have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In cases where commodity price risk cannot be naturally offset or hedged through supply based fixed price contracts, we use commodity hedge contracts to minimize overall price risk associated with our anticipated commodity purchases. Unfavorability in our hedging programs during a period of declining commodity prices could result in lower margins as we reduce prices to match the market on a fixed commodity cost level. Additionally, to the extent we do not or are unable to hedge certain commodities and the commodity prices substantially increase, such increases will have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. In our Power Solutions business, lead is a major component of lead-acid batteries, and the price of lead may be highly volatile. We attempt to manage the impact of changing lead prices through the recycling of used batteries returned to us by our aftermarket customers, commercial terms and commodity hedging programs. Our ability to mitigate the impact of lead price changes can be impacted by many factors, including customer negotiations, inventory level fluctuations and sales volume/mix changes, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We rely on our global direct installation channel for a significant portion of our revenue. Failure to maintain and grow the installed base resulting from direct channel sales could adversely affect our business.. Unlike many of our competitors, the Company relies on a direct sales channel for a substantial portion of our revenue. The direct channel provides for the installation of fire and security solutions, and HVAC equipment manufactured by the Company. This represents a significant distribution channel for our products, creates a large installed base of our fire and security solutions, and HVAC equipment, and creates opportunities for longer term service and monitoring revenue. If we are unable to maintain or grow this installation business, whether due to changes in economic conditions, a failure to anticipate changing customer needs, a failure to introduce innovative or technologically advanced solutions, or for any other reason, our installation revenue could decline, which could in turn adversely impact our product pull through and our ability to grow service and monitoring revenue.. Our future growth is dependent upon our ability to develop or acquire new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins.. Our future success depends on our ability to develop or acquire, manufacture and bring competitive, and increasingly complex, products and services to market quickly and cost-effectively. Our ability to develop or acquire new products and services requires the investment of significant resources. These acquisitions and development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies, products or services on a timely basis. Moreover, as we introduce new products, we may be unable to detect and correct defects in the design of a product or in its application to a specified use, which could result in loss of sales or delays in market acceptance. Even after introduction, new or enhanced products may not satisfy customer preferences and product failures may cause customers to reject our products. As a result, these products may not achieve market acceptance and our brand image could suffer. In addition, the markets for our products and services may not develop or grow as we anticipate. As a result, the failure of our technology, products or services to gain market acceptance, the potential for product defects, product quality issues, or the obsolescence of our products and services could significantly reduce our revenues, increase our operating costs or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks associated with our non-U.S. operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have significant operations in a number of countries outside the U.S., some of which are located in emerging markets. Long-term economic uncertainty in some of the regions of the world in which we operate, such as Asia, South America, the Middle East, Europe and emerging markets, could result in the disruption of markets and negatively affect cash flows from our operations to cover our capital needs and debt service requirements.. In addition, as a result of our global presence, a significant portion of our revenues and expenses is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We are therefore subject to non-U.S. currency risks and non-U.S. exchange exposure. While we employ financial instruments to hedge some of our transactional foreign exchange exposure, these activities do not insulate us completely from those exposures. Exchange rates can be volatile and a substantial weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar could reduce our profit margin in various locations outside of the U.S. and adversely impact the comparability of results from period to period.. 9. There are other risks that are inherent in our non-U.S. operations, including the potential for changes in socio-economic conditions, laws and regulations, including anti-trust, import, export, labor and environmental laws, and monetary and fiscal policies; protectionist measures that may prohibit acquisitions or joint ventures, or impact trade volumes; unsettled political conditions; government-imposed plant or other operational shutdowns; backlash from foreign labor organizations related to our restructuring actions; corruption; natural and man-made disasters, hazards and losses; violence, civil and labor unrest, and possible terrorist attacks.. These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our non-U.S. operations and therefore on our business and results of operations.. Our businesses operate in regulated industries and are subject to a variety of complex and continually changing laws and regulations.. Our operations and employees are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local licensing laws, codes and standards and similar foreign laws, codes, standards and regulations. Changes in laws or regulations could require us to change the way we operate or to utilize resources to maintain compliance, which could increase costs or otherwise disrupt operations. In addition, failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. For example, we were subject to investigation by the European Commission related to European lead recyclers' procurement practices from 2012 to 2017. Although we were not fined in connection with such investigation, competition or other regulatory investigations can continue for several years, be costly to defend and can result in substantial fines. If laws and regulations were to change or if we or our products failed to comply, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Due to the international scope of our operations, the system of laws and regulations to which we are subject is complex and includes regulations issued by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the U.S. Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security, the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control and various non U.S. governmental agencies, including applicable export controls, anti-trust, customs, currency exchange control and transfer pricing regulations, and laws regulating the foreign ownership of assets. No assurances can be made that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted.. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws around the world.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the \"FCPA\"), the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both U.S. and non-U.S. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and local customs and practices that can be inconsistent with anti-bribery laws. We cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third party intermediaries. In the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees or agents have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, or if we are subject to allegations of any such violations, we may be required to investigate or have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances, which can be expensive and require significant time and attention from senior management. Violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, we could be subject to commercial impacts such as lost revenue from customers who decline to do business with us as a result of such compliance matters, or we could be subject to lawsuits brought by private litigants, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to risks arising from regulations applicable to companies doing business with the U.S. government.. Our customers include many U.S. federal, state and local government authorities. Doing business with the U.S. government and state and local authorities subjects us to unusual risks, including dependence on the level of government spending and compliance with and changes in governmental procurement and security regulations. Agreements relating to the sale of products to government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification, either at the convenience of the government or for failure to. 10. perform under the applicable contract. We are subject to potential government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement and security regulations, which can be expensive and burdensome. If we were charged with wrongdoing as a result of an investigation, we could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. In addition, various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals have been made that would deny governmental contracts to U.S. companies that have moved their corporate location abroad. We are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business.. Infringement or expiration of our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties, could negatively affect us.. We rely on a combination of trademarks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights, know-how, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We cannot guarantee, however, that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will be adequate to prevent infringement of our rights or misappropriation of our technology, trade secrets or know-how. For example, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some of the countries in which we operate. In addition, while we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our trade secrets, know-how, business strategy and other proprietary information, such confidentiality agreements could be breached or otherwise may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and know-how related to the design, manufacture or operation of our products. If it became necessary for us to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, any proceedings could be burdensome and costly, and we may not prevail. Further, adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. Finally, for those products in our portfolio that rely on patent protection, once a patent has expired, the product is generally open to competition. Products under patent protection usually generate significantly higher revenues than those not protected by patents. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, we are, from time to time, subject to claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties, including practicing entities and non-practicing entities. Regardless of the merit of such claims, responding to infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming, and the litigation process is subject to inherent uncertainties, and we may not prevail in litigation matters regardless of the merits of our position. Intellectual property lawsuits or claims may become extremely disruptive if the plaintiffs succeed in blocking the trade of our products and services and they may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Global climate change could negatively affect our business.. Increased public awareness and concern regarding global climate change may result in more regional and/or federal requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gas emissions. There continues to be a lack of consistent climate legislation, which creates economic and regulatory uncertainty. Such regulatory uncertainty extends to incentives, that if discontinued, could adversely  impact the demand for energy efficient buildings and batteries for energy efficient vehicles, and could increase costs of compliance. These factors may impact the demand for our products, obsolescence of our products and our results of operations.. There is a growing consensus that greenhouse gas emissions are linked to global climate changes. Climate changes, such as extreme weather conditions, create financial risk to our business. For example, the demand for our products and services, such as residential air conditioning equipment and automotive replacement batteries, may be affected by unseasonable weather conditions. Climate changes could also disrupt our operations by impacting the availability and cost of materials needed for manufacturing and could increase insurance and other operating costs. These factors may impact our decisions to construct new facilities or maintain existing facilities in areas most prone to physical climate risks. The Company could also face indirect financial risks passed through the supply chain, and process disruptions due to physical climate changes could result in price modifications for our products and the resources needed to produce them.. Potential liability for environmental contamination could result in substantial costs. We have projects underway at multiple current and former manufacturing facilities to investigate and remediate environmental contamination resulting from past operations by us or by other businesses that previously owned or used the properties. These projects relate to a variety of activities, including solvent, oil, metal, lead and other hazardous substance contamination cleanup; and structure decontamination and demolition, including asbestos abatement. Because of uncertainties associated with environmental regulation and environmental remediation activities at sites where we may be liable, future expenses that we may. 11. incur to remediate identified sites could be considerably higher than the current accrued liability on our consolidated statements of financial position, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We are subject to requirements relating to environmental and safety regulations and environmental remediation matters, including those related to the manufacturing and recycling of lead-acid batteries, which could adversely affect our business, results of operation and reputation.. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, solid and hazardous waste storage, treatment and disposal, and remediation of releases of hazardous materials, including as it pertains to lead, the primary material used in the manufacture of lead-acid batteries. There are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental laws and regulations. Environmental laws and regulations may become more stringent in the future, which could increase costs of compliance or require us to manufacture with alternative technologies and materials.. Federal, state and local authorities also regulate a variety of matters, including, but not limited to, health, safety and permitting in addition to the environmental matters discussed above. New legislation and regulations may require the Company to make material changes to its operations, resulting in significant increases to the cost of production.. We are party to asbestos-related product litigation that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We and certain of our subsidiaries, along with numerous other third parties, are named as defendants in personal injury lawsuits based on alleged exposure to asbestos containing materials. These cases typically involve product liability claims based primarily on allegations of manufacture, sale or distribution of industrial products that either contained asbestos or were used with asbestos containing components. We cannot predict with certainty the extent to which we will be successful in litigating or otherwise resolving lawsuits in the future and we continue to evaluate different strategies related to asbestos claims filed against us including entity restructuring and judicial relief. Unfavorable rulings, judgments or settlement terms could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The amounts we have recorded for asbestos-related liabilities and insurance-related assets in the consolidated statements of financial position are based on our current strategy for resolving asbestos claims, currently available information, and a number of variables, estimates and assumptions. Key variables and assumptions include the number and type of new claims that are filed each year, the average cost of resolution of claims, the identity of defendants and the resolution of coverage issues with insurance carriers, amount of insurance, and the solvency risk with respect to the Company's insurance carriers. Many of these factors are closely linked, such that a change in one variable or assumption will impact one or more of the others, and no single variable or assumption predominately influences the determination of the Company's asbestos-related liabilities and insurance-related assets. Furthermore, predictions with respect to these variables are subject to greater uncertainty in the later portion of the projection period. Other factors that may affect the Company's liability and cash payments for asbestos-related matters include uncertainties surrounding the litigation process from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and from case to case, reforms of state or federal tort legislation and the applicability of insurance policies among subsidiaries. As a result, actual liabilities or insurance recoveries could be significantly higher or lower than those recorded if assumptions used in our calculations vary significantly from actual results. If actual liabilities are significantly higher than those recorded, the cost of resolving such liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. Risks related to our defined benefit retirement plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow.. Significant changes in actual investment return on defined benefit plan assets, discount rates, mortality assumptions and other factors could adversely affect our results of operations and the amounts of contributions we must make to our defined benefit plans in future periods. Because we mark-to-market our defined benefit plan assets and liabilities on an annual basis, large non-cash gains or losses could be recorded in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or when a remeasurement event occurs. Generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. Funding requirements for our defined benefit plans are dependent upon, among other factors, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to defined benefit funding obligations. For a discussion regarding the significant assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost, refer to \"Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies\" included in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\". 12. We may be unable to realize the expected benefits of our restructuring actions, which could adversely affect our profitability and operations.. To align our resources with our growth strategies, operate more efficiently and control costs, we periodically announce restructuring plans, which may include workforce reductions, global plant closures and consolidations, asset impairments and other cost reduction initiatives. We may undertake additional restructuring actions and workforce reductions in the future. As these plans and actions are complex, unforeseen factors could result in expected savings and benefits to be delayed or not realized to the full extent planned, and our operations and business may be disrupted.. Negative or unexpected tax consequences could adversely affect our results of operations.. Adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial outlook of our operations in several jurisdictions could lead to additional changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and other tax reserves on our statement of financial position, and the future sale of certain businesses could potentially result in the repatriation of accumulated foreign earnings that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, changes in tax laws in the U.S., Ireland or in other countries where we have significant operations could materially affect deferred tax assets and liabilities on our consolidated statements of financial position and our income tax provision in our consolidated statements of income.. We are also subject to tax audits by governmental authorities. Negative unexpected results from one or more such tax audits could adversely affect our results of operations.. Future changes in U.S. tax law could adversely affect us or our affiliates.. In November 2017, a bill entitled the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" was introduced before the U.S. House of Representatives (together with amendments and with markups produced by committees of the U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate, the \"TCJA\").  If enacted in its present form, the TCJA could have a significant adverse effect on the U.S. federal income taxation of our and our affiliates' operations, including by limiting or eliminating various deductions or credits (including interest expense deductions and deductions relating to employee compensation), imposing taxes on certain cross-border payments or transfers, imposing taxes on certain earnings of non-U.S. entities on a current basis, changing the timing of the recognition of income or its character, limiting asset basis under certain circumstances, and imposing additional corporate taxes under certain circumstances to combat perceived base erosion issues, among other changes.. The TCJA is subject to ongoing discussion and amendment and may or may not be enacted in its current form, or with retroactive or prospective effect. The TCJA, or any related, similar or amended legislation or other changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could adversely affect the U.S. federal income taxation of our and our affiliates' ongoing operations and may also adversely affect the integration efforts relating to, and potential synergies from, past strategic transactions, as described below.  Any such changes and related consequences could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. Legal proceedings in which we are, or may be, a party may adversely affect us.. We are currently, and may in the future, become subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. These are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business including, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes with our suppliers, intellectual property matters, third party liability, including product liability claims and employment claims. We have also been named as a defendant in a number of actions where third party use of our products has allegedly resulted in contamination to groundwater and drinking water supplies. Plaintiffs in these cases are generally seeking damages for personal injuries, medical monitoring and diminution in property values, and are also seeking punitive damages and injunctive relief to address remediation of the alleged contamination. There is a possibility that such claims may have an adverse impact on our results of operations that is greater than we anticipate and/or negatively affect our reputation. See \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K a further discussion of these matters.. A downgrade in the ratings of our debt could restrict our ability to access the debt capital markets and increase our interest costs.. Unfavorable changes in the ratings that rating agencies assign to our debt may ultimately negatively impact our access to the debt capital markets and increase the costs we incur to borrow funds. If ratings for our debt fall below investment grade, our access to the debt capital markets would become restricted. Future tightening in the credit markets and a reduced level of liquidity in many financial markets due to turmoil in the financial and banking industries could affect our access to the debt capital markets or the price we pay to issue debt. Historically, we have relied on our ability to issue commercial paper rather than to draw on our credit. 13. facility to support our daily operations, which means that a downgrade in our ratings or volatility in the financial markets causing limitations to the debt capital markets could have an adverse effect on our business or our ability to meet our liquidity needs.. Additionally, several of our credit agreements generally include an increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are downgraded. Further, an increase in the level of our indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and may affect our ability to obtain additional financing.. The potential insolvency or financial distress of third parties could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. We are exposed to the risk that third parties to various arrangements who owe us money or goods and services, or who purchase goods and services from us, will not be able to perform their obligations or continue to place orders due to insolvency or financial distress. If third parties fail to perform their obligations under arrangements with us, we may be forced to replace the underlying commitment at current or above market prices or on other terms that are less favorable to us. In such events, we may incur losses, or our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity could otherwise be adversely affected.. We may be unable to complete or integrate acquisitions or joint ventures effectively, which may adversely affect our growth, profitability and results of operations.. We expect acquisitions of businesses and assets, as well as joint ventures (or other strategic arrangements), to play a role in our future growth. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition or joint venture targets, obtain financing for acquisitions on satisfactory terms, successfully acquire identified targets or form joint ventures, or manage the timing of acquisitions with capital obligations across our businesses. Additionally, we may not be successful in integrating acquired businesses or joint ventures into our existing operations and achieving projected synergies which could result in impairment of assets, including goodwill and acquired intangible assets. Given the significance of the Company's recent acquisitions, the goodwill and intangible assets recorded were significant and impairment of such assets could result in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operation. Competition for acquisition opportunities in the various industries in which we operate may rise, thereby increasing our costs of making acquisitions or causing us to refrain from making further acquisitions. If we were to use equity securities to finance a future acquisition, our then-current shareholders would experience dilution. We are also subject to applicable antitrust laws and must avoid anticompetitive behavior. These and other factors related to acquisitions and joint ventures may negatively and adversely impact our growth, profitability and results of operations.. Risks associated with joint venture investments may adversely affect our business and financial results.. We have entered into several joint ventures and we may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. Our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or with the goals of the joint venture. In addition, we may compete against our joint venture partners in certain of our other markets. Disagreements with our business partners may impede our ability to maximize the benefits of our partnerships. Our joint venture arrangements may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments or to seek our joint venture partner's consent to take certain actions. In addition, our joint venture partners may be unable or unwilling to meet their economic or other obligations under the operative documents, and we may be required to either fulfill those obligations alone to ensure the ongoing success of a joint venture or to dissolve and liquidate a joint venture. These risks could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. We are subject to business continuity risks associated with centralization of certain administrative functions.. We have been regionally centralizing certain administrative functions, primarily in North America, Europe and Asia, to improve efficiency and reduce costs. To the extent that these central locations are disrupted or disabled, key business processes, such as invoicing, payments and general management operations, could be interrupted, which could have an adverse impact on our business.. A failure of our information technology (IT) and data security infrastructure could adversely impact our business and operations.. We rely upon the capacity, reliability and security of our IT and data security infrastructure and our ability to expand and continually update this infrastructure in response to the changing needs of our business. As we implement new systems or integrate existing systems, they may not perform as expected. We also face the challenge of supporting our older systems and implementing necessary upgrades. If we experience a problem with the functioning of an important IT system or a security breach of our IT systems, including during system upgrades and/or new system implementations, the resulting disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business.. 14. We and certain of our third-party vendors receive and store personal information in connection with our human resources operations and other aspects of our business. Despite our implementation of security measures, our IT systems, like those of other companies, are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, cyber attack and other similar disruptions. Any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to our operations. A material network breach in the security of our IT systems could include the theft of our intellectual property, trade secrets, customer information, human resources information or other confidential matter. To the extent that any disruptions or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, or an inappropriate disclosure of confidential, proprietary or customer information, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our customers, lead to claims against the Company and ultimately harm our business. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.. A material disruption of our operations, particularly at our monitoring and/or manufacturing facilities, could adversely affect our business.. If our operations, particularly at our monitoring facilities and/or manufacturing facilities, were to be disrupted as a result of significant equipment failures, natural disasters, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, sabotage, adverse weather conditions, public health crises, labor disputes or other reasons, we may be unable to effectively respond to alarm signals, fill customer orders and otherwise meet obligations to or demand from our customers, which could adversely affect our financial performance.. Interruptions in production could increase our costs and reduce our sales. Any interruption in production capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures or purchase alternative material at higher costs to fill customer orders, which could negatively affect our profitability and financial condition. We maintain property damage insurance that we believe to be adequate to provide for reconstruction of facilities and equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from significant production interruption or shutdown caused by an insured loss. However, any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. Our business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel.. Our ability to sustain and grow our business requires us to hire, retain and develop a highly skilled and diverse management team and workforce. Failure to ensure that we have the leadership capacity with the necessary skill set and experience could impede our ability to deliver our growth objectives and execute our strategic plan. Organizational and reporting changes resulting from the Merger, or as a result of any future leadership transition or corporate initiatives could result in increased turnover. Additionally, any unplanned turnover or inability to attract and retain key employees could have a negative effect on our results of operations.. Our business may be adversely affected by work stoppages, union negotiations, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force.. We employ approximately 121,000 people worldwide. Approximately 20% of these employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works council. Although we believe that our relations with the labor unions and works councils that represent our employees are generally good and we have experienced no material strikes or work stoppages recently, no assurances can be made that we will not experience in the future these and other types of conflicts with labor unions, works council, other groups representing employees or our employees generally, or that any future negotiations with our labor unions will not result in significant increases in our cost of labor. Additionally, a work stoppage at one of our suppliers could materially and adversely affect our operations if an alternative source of supply were not readily available. Stoppages by employees of our customers could also result in reduced demand for our products.. Regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. As a result, in August 2012, the SEC adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use conflict minerals in their products. There are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Our continued compliance with these disclosure rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering \"conflict free\" conflict minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices, or that we will be able to satisfy customers who require our products to be conflict free. Also, we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals. 15. not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we may implement.. We are exposed to greater risks of liability for employee acts or omissions, or system failure, in our fire, security and life safety businesses than may be inherent in other businesses.. If a customer or third party believes that he or she has suffered harm to person or property due to an actual or alleged act or omission of one of our employees or a security or fire system failure, he or she may pursue legal action against us, and the cost of defending the legal action and of any judgment could be substantial. In particular, because many of our products and services are intended to protect lives and real and personal property, we may have greater exposure to litigation risks than businesses that provide other products and services. We could face liability for failure to respond adequately to alarm activations or failure of our fire protection to operate as expected. The nature of the services we provide exposes us to the risks that we may be held liable for employee acts or omissions or system failures. In an attempt to reduce this risk, our installation, service and monitoring agreements and other contracts contain provisions limiting our liability in such circumstances, and we typically maintain product liability insurance to mitigate the risk that our products and services fail to operate as expected. However, in the event of litigation, it is possible that contract limitations may be deemed not applicable or unenforceable, that our insurance coverage is not adequate, or that insurance carriers deny coverage of our claims. As a result, such employee acts or omissions or system failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We do not own the right to use the ADT® brand name in the U.S. and Canada.. We own the ADT® brand name in jurisdictions outside of the U.S. and Canada, and The ADT Corporation (\"ADT\") owns the brand name in the U.S. and Canada. Although Tyco has entered agreements with ADT designed to protect the value of the ADT® brand, we cannot assure you that actions taken by ADT will not negatively impact the value of the brand outside of the U.S. and Canada. These factors expose us to the risk that the ADT® brand name could suffer reputational damage or devaluation for reasons outside of our control, including ADT's business conduct in the U.S. and Canada. Any of these factors may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Police departments could refuse to respond to calls from monitored security service companies.. Police departments in a limited number of jurisdictions do not respond to calls from monitored security service companies, either as a matter of policy or by local ordinance. We have offered affected customers the option of receiving responses from private guard companies, in most cases through contracts with us, which increases the overall cost to customers. If more police departments, whether inside or outside the U.S., were to refuse to respond or be prohibited from responding to calls from monitored security service companies, our ability to attract and retain customers could be negatively impacted and our results of operations and cash flow could be adversely affected.. A variety of other factors could adversely affect the results of operations of our Power Solutions business.. Any of the following could materially and adversely impact the results of operations of our Power Solutions business: loss of, or changes in, automobile battery supply contracts with our large original equipment and aftermarket customers; the increasing quality and useful life of batteries or use of alternative battery technologies, both of which may adversely impact the lead-acid battery market, including replacement cycle; delays or cancellations of new vehicle programs; market and financial consequences of any recalls that may be required on our products; delays or difficulties in new product development, including lithium-ion technology; impact of potential increases in lithium-ion battery volumes on established lead-acid battery volumes as lithium-ion battery technology grows and costs become more competitive; financial instability or market declines of our customers or suppliers; slower than projected market development in emerging markets; interruption of supply of certain single-source components; changing nature of our joint ventures and relationships with our strategic business partners; unseasonable weather conditions in various parts of the world; our ability to secure sufficient tolling capacity to recycle batteries; price and availability of battery cores used in recycling; and the lack of the development of a market for hybrid and electric vehicles.. A variety of other factors could adversely affect the results of operations of our Buildings business.. Any of the following could materially and adversely impact the results of operations of our Buildings business: loss of, changes in, or failure to perform under guaranteed performance contracts with our major customers; cancellation of, or significant delays in, projects in our backlog; delays or difficulties in new product development; the potential introduction of similar or superior technologies; financial instability or market declines of our major component suppliers; the unavailability of raw materials (primarily steel, copper and electronic components) necessary for production of our products; price increases of limited-source components, products and services that we are unable to pass on to the market; unseasonable weather conditions in various parts. 16. of the world; changes in energy costs or governmental regulations that would decrease the incentive for customers to update or improve their building control systems; revisions to energy efficiency or refrigerant legislation; and natural or man-made disasters or losses that impact our ability to deliver products and services to our customers.. Risks Relating to Strategic Transactions. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the business combination between Johnson Controls, Inc. and Tyco International plc.. The success of the Merger will depend on, among other things, our ability to combine the legacy businesses of Johnson Controls and Tyco in a manner that realizes anticipated synergies and facilitates growth opportunities, and achieves the projected stand-alone cost savings and revenue growth trends identified by us. We expect to benefit from operational and general and administrative cost synergies resulting from the consolidation of capabilities and branch optimization, as well as greater tax efficiencies from global management and global cash movement. We may also enjoy revenue synergies, including product and service cross-selling, a more diversified and expanded product offering and balance across geographic regions. However, we must successfully combine the legacy businesses of Johnson Controls and Tyco in a manner that permits these cost savings and synergies to be realized. In addition, we must achieve the anticipated savings and synergies without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, we may not realize fully, or at all, the anticipated benefits of the Merger, or it may take longer to realize the benefits than expected.. Other factors may prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of the Merger or impact our future performance. These include, among other items, the possibility that the contingent liabilities of either party (including contingent tax liabilities) are larger than expected, the existence of unknown liabilities, adverse consequences and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the Merger and possible adverse tax consequences pursuant to changes in applicable tax laws, regulations or other administrative guidance. In addition, we may be subject to additional restrictions resulting from Tyco's incurrence of debt in connection with the Merger and as a result of the Company's Irish domicile.. We may encounter significant difficulties in combining the legacy Johnson Controls and Tyco businesses.. The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to combining the business practices and operations of the legacy Johnson Controls and Tyco businesses. This process may disrupt the businesses. The failure to meet the challenges involved in combining the two businesses and to realize the anticipated benefits of the transactions could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined company and could adversely affect our results of operations. The overall combination of legacy Johnson Controls and Tyco businesses may also result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer and other business relationships and diversion of management attention. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others:. •the diversion of management attention to integration matters;. •difficulties in integrating operations and systems;. •challenges in conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies, business cultures and. compensation structures between the two companies;. •difficulties in assimilating employees and in attracting and retaining key personnel;. •challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers;. •difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from the. combination;. •difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company;. •contingent liabilities (including contingent tax liabilities) that are larger than expected; and. •potential unknown liabilities, adverse consequences and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the Merger,. including possible adverse tax consequences to the combined company pursuant to changes in applicable tax laws or. regulations.. Many of these factors are outside of our control, and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreased expected revenues and diversion of management time and energy, which could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of the combined company.. 17. Divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. We continually evaluate the performance and strategic fit of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. For example, on October 31, 2016, we completed the spin-off of our Automotive Experience business and in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 we announced that we had signed a definitive agreement to sell our Scott Safety business, which closed on October 4, 2017. Divestitures involve risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, the potential loss of key employees and the retention of uncertain environmental or other contingent liabilities related to the divested business. In addition, divestitures may result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line, and any divestiture we undertake could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and may also result in a diversion of management attention, operational difficulties and losses.. The Internal Revenue Service may not agree that we should be treated as a non-U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes and may not agree that the our U.S. affiliates should not be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax rules.. Under current U.S. federal tax law, a corporation is generally considered for U.S. federal tax purposes to be a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation. Because Johnson Controls International plc is an Irish incorporated entity, it would generally be classified as a non-U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a non-U.S. tax resident) under these rules. However, Section 7874 of the Code (\"Section 7874\") provides an exception to this general rule under which a non-U.S. incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes.. Under Section 7874, if (1) former Johnson Controls, Inc. shareholders owned (within the meaning of Section 7874) 80% or more (by vote or value) of our ordinary shares after the Merger by reason of holding Johnson Controls, Inc. common stock (the \"80% ownership test,\" and such ownership percentage the \"Section 7874 ownership percentage\"), and (2) our \"expanded affiliated group\" did not have \"substantial business activities\" in Ireland (\"the substantial business activities test\"), we will be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. If the Section 7874 ownership percentage of the former Johnson Controls, Inc. shareholders after the Merger was less than 80% but at least 60% (the \"60% ownership test\"), and the substantial business activities test was not met, we and our U.S. affiliates (including the U.S. affiliates historically owned by Tyco) may, in some circumstances, be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax rules (which, among other things, could limit their ability to utilize certain U.S. tax attributes to offset U.S. taxable income or gain resulting from certain transactions).. Based on the terms of the Merger, the rules for determining share ownership under Section 7874 and certain factual assumptions, we believe that former Johnson Controls, Inc. shareholders owned (within the meaning of Section 7874) less than 60% (by both vote and value) of our ordinary shares after the Merger by reason of holding shares of Johnson Controls, Inc. common stock. Therefore, under current law, we believe that we should not be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes and that Section 7874 should otherwise not apply to us or our affiliates as a result of the Merger.. However, the rules under Section 7874 are relatively new and complex and there is limited guidance regarding their application. In particular, ownership for purposes of Section 7874 is subject to various adjustments under the Code and the Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, and there is limited guidance regarding Section 7874, including with respect to the application of the ownership tests described therein. As a result, the determination of the Section 7874 ownership percentage is complex and is subject to factual and legal uncertainties. Thus, there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with the position that we should not be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes or that Section 7874 does not otherwise apply as a result of the Merger.. In addition, on January 13, 2017, the U.S. Treasury and the IRS finalized certain Treasury regulations issued under Section 7874  and revised certain related temporary regulations (the \"Section 7874 Regulations\"), which, among other things, require certain adjustments that generally increase, for purposes of the Section 7874 ownership tests, the percentage of the stock of a foreign acquiring corporation deemed owned (within the meaning of Section 7874) by the former shareholders of an acquired U.S. corporation by reason of holding stock in such U.S. corporation. For example, these regulations disregard, for purposes of determining this ownership percentage, (1) any \"non-ordinary course distributions\" (within the meaning of the regulations) made by the acquired U.S. corporation (such as Johnson Controls, Inc.) during the 36 months preceding the acquisition, including certain dividends and share repurchases, (2) potentially any cash consideration received by the shareholders of such U.S. corporation in the acquisition to the extent such cash is, directly or indirectly, provided by the U.S. corporation, as well as (3) certain stock of the foreign acquiring corporation that was issued as consideration in a prior acquisition of another U.S. corporation (or U.S.. 18. partnership) during the 36 months preceding the signing date of a binding contract for the acquisition being tested. Taking into account the effect of these regulations, we believe that the Section 7874 ownership percentage of former Johnson Controls, Inc. shareholders in us was less than 60%. However, these regulations are new and complex and there is limited guidance regarding their application. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not successfully assert that either the 80% ownership test or the 60% ownership test was met after the Merger.. If the 80% ownership test was met after the Merger and we were accordingly treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes under Section 7874, we would be subject to substantial additional U.S. tax liability. Additionally, in such case, our non-U.S. shareholders would be subject to U.S. withholding tax on the gross amount of any dividends we pay to such shareholders (subject to an exemption or reduced rate available under an applicable tax treaty). Regardless of any application of Section 7874, we are treated as an Irish tax resident for Irish tax purposes. Consequently, if we were to be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes under Section 7874, we could be liable for both U.S. and Irish taxes, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. If the 60% ownership test were met, several adverse U.S. federal income tax rules could apply to our U.S. affiliates. In particular, in such case, Section 7874 could limit the ability of such U.S. affiliates to utilize certain U.S. tax attributes (including net operating losses and certain tax credits) to offset any taxable income or gain resulting from certain transactions, including any transfers or licenses of property to a foreign related person during the 10-year period following the Merger. The Section 7874 Regulations generally expand the scope of these rules. If the 60% ownership test were met after the Merger, such current and future limitations would apply to our U.S. affiliates (including the U.S. affiliates historically owned by Tyco), and their application could limit their ability to utilize such U.S. tax attributes against any income or gain recognized in connection with the Adient spin-off. In such case, the application of such rules could result in significant additional U.S. tax liability. In addition, the Section 7874 Regulations (and certain related temporary regulations issued under other provisions of the Code) include new rules that would apply if the 60% ownership test were met, which, in such situation, may limit our ability to restructure or access cash earned by certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, in each case, without incurring substantial U.S. tax liabilities.. Future potential changes to the tax laws could result in our being treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes or in us and our U.S. affiliates (including the U.S. affiliates historically owned by Tyco) being subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax rules.. As discussed above, under current law, we believe that we should be treated as a non-U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes and that Section 7874 does not otherwise apply as a result of the Merger. However, changes to Section 7874, or the U.S. Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, could affect our status as a non-U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes or could result in the application of certain adverse U.S. federal income tax rules to us and our U.S. affiliates (including the U.S. affiliates historically owned by Tyco). Any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application, and may apply even though the Merger has been consummated. If we were to be treated as a U.S. corporation for federal tax purposes or if we or our U.S. affiliates (including the U.S. affiliates historically owned by Tyco) were to become subject to such adverse U.S. federal income tax rules, we and our U.S. affiliates could be subject to substantially greater U.S. tax liability than currently contemplated.. Certain legislative and other proposals have aimed to expand the scope of U.S. corporate tax residence, including in such a way as would cause us to be treated as a U.S. corporation if our place of management and control or the place of management and control of our non-U.S. affiliates were determined to be located primarily in the United States. In addition, certain legislative and other proposals have aimed to expand the scope of Section 7874, or otherwise address certain perceived issues arising in connection with so-called inversion transactions. For example, multiple proposals introduced by certain Democratic members of both houses of Congress, which, if enacted in their present form, would be effective retroactively to certain transactions (including the Merger), would, among other things, treat a foreign acquiring corporation as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes under Section 7874 if the former shareholders of a U.S. corporation acquired by such foreign acquiring corporation own more than 50% of the shares of the foreign acquiring corporation after the acquisition. These proposals, if enacted in their present form and made retroactive to a date before the date of the closing of the Merger, would cause us to be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. In such case, we would be subject to substantially greater U.S. tax liability than currently contemplated. It is presently uncertain whether any such proposals or other legislative action relating to the scope of U.S. tax residence, Section 7874 or so-called inversion transactions and inverted groups will be enacted into law.. Any legislative and/or other proposals could cause us and our affiliates to be subject to certain intercompany financing limitations, including with respect to their ability to deduct certain interest expense, could limit or eliminate various other deductions or credits, could impose taxes on certain cross-border payments or transfers, could impose taxes on certain earnings of non-U.S. entities on a current basis, could change the timing of the recognition of income or its character, could limit asset basis under certain circumstances, could impose additional corporate taxes under certain circumstances to combat perceived base erosion issues, and could limit deductions relating to employee compensation, among other changes that could cause us or our affiliates to be subject. 19. to additional U.S. federal income taxes. Any such proposals, regulations and any other relevant provisions could change on a prospective or retroactive basis and could have a significant adverse effect on us and our affiliates. It is presently uncertain whether legislative reform relating to the U.S. federal income taxation of corporations and other business entities, including the reforms described above, will be enacted into law and in what form. Any such changes could have a material impact on our future financial results.. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the spin-off of Adient plc. On October 31, 2016, we completed the separation of our Automotive Experience business through the spin-off of Adient plc to shareholders. Following the spin-off, we are a smaller and less diversified company with a narrower business focus and, as a result, we may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions.. Although we believe that the spin-off of Adient plc will provide financial, operational, managerial and other benefits to us and shareholders, the spin-off may not provide such results on the scope or scale we anticipate, and we may not realize any or all of the intended benefits. In addition, we have and will continue to incur one-time costs and ongoing costs in connection with, or as a result of, the spin-off, including costs of operating as independent, publicly-traded companies that the two businesses are no longer able to share. Those costs may exceed our estimates or could negate some of the benefits we expect to realize. If we do not realize the intended benefits of the spin-off or if our costs exceed our estimates, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Adient may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that we have executed as part of the Adient spin-off.. In connection with the spin-off of Adient, we and Adient have entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements, including a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement and a transitional trademark license agreement. Certain of these agreements provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time after the spin-off. We will rely on Adient to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. If Adient is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its indemnification obligations, we could incur operational difficulties or losses.. Risks Relating to Our Jurisdiction of Incorporation. Legislative action in the U.S. could materially and adversely affect us.. Legislative action may be taken by the U.S. Congress which, if ultimately enacted, could limit the availability of tax benefits or deductions that we currently claim, override tax treaties upon which we rely, affect our status as a non-U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, impose additional taxes on payments made by our U.S. subsidiaries to non-U.S. affiliates, or otherwise affect the taxes that the U.S. imposes on our worldwide operations. Such changes could have retroactive effect and could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate and/or require us to take further action, at potentially significant expense, to seek to preserve our effective tax rate. In addition, if proposals were enacted that had the effect of disregarding or limiting our ability, as an Irish company, to take advantage of tax treaties with the U.S., we could incur additional tax expense and/or otherwise incur business detriment.. Legislation relating to governmental contracts could materially and adversely affect us.. Various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals that would deny governmental contracts to U.S. companies that have moved their corporate location abroad may affect us. We are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business.. Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the U.S. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities.. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the U.S. against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the U.S. currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland.. 20. A judgment obtained against the combined company will be enforced by the courts of Ireland if the following general requirements are met:. • U.S. courts must have had jurisdiction in relation to the particular defendant according to Irish conflict of law rules (the submission to jurisdiction by the defendant would satisfy this rule); and. • the judgment must be final and conclusive and the decree must be final and unalterable in the court which pronounces it.. A judgment can be final and conclusive even if it is subject to appeal or even if an appeal is pending. But where the effect of lodging an appeal under the applicable law is to stay execution of the judgment, it is possible that in the meantime the judgment may not be actionable in Ireland. It remains to be determined whether final judgment given in default of appearance is final and conclusive. Irish courts may also refuse to enforce a judgment of the U.S. courts which meets the above requirements for one of the following reasons:. • the judgment is not for a definite sum of money;. • the judgment was obtained by fraud;. • the enforcement of the judgment in Ireland would be contrary to natural or constitutional justice;. • the judgment is contrary to Irish public policy or involves certain U.S. laws which will not be enforced in Ireland; or. • jurisdiction cannot be obtained by the Irish courts over the judgment debtors in the enforcement proceedings by personal service Ireland or outside Ireland under Order 11 of the Irish Superior Courts Rules.. As an Irish company, Johnson Controls is governed by the Irish Companies Acts, which differ in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of Johnson Controls International plc securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the U.S.. Our effective tax rate may increase.. There is uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate, including the potential legislative actions described in these risk factors, which if enacted could result in an increase in our effective tax rate (including the TCJA, as discussed above). Additionally, the tax laws of Ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material increase in our effective tax rate.. Changes to the U.S. model income tax treaty could adversely affect us.. On February 17, 2016, the U.S. Treasury released a revised U.S. model income tax convention (the \"new model\"), which is the baseline text used by the U.S. Treasury to negotiate tax treaties. The new model treaty provisions were preceded by draft versions released by the U.S. Treasury on May 20, 2015 (the \"May 2015 draft\") for public comment. The revisions made to the model address certain aspects of the model by modifying existing provisions and introducing entirely new provisions. Specifically, the new provisions target (i) permanent establishments subject to little or no foreign tax, (ii) special tax regimes, (iii) expatriated entities subject to Section 7874, (iv) the anti-treaty shopping measures of the limitation on benefits article and (v) subsequent changes in treaty partners' tax laws.. With respect to new model provisions pertaining to expatriated entities, because we do not believe that the Merger resulted in the creation of an expatriated entity as defined in Section 7874, payments of interest, dividends, royalties and certain other items of income by or to us and/or our U.S. affiliates to or from non-U.S. persons would not be expected to become subject to full withholding tax, even if applicable treaties were subsequently amended to adopt the new model provisions. In response to comments the U.S. Treasury received regarding the May 2015 draft, the new model treaty provisions pertaining to expatriated entities fix the definition of \"expatriated entity\" to the meaning ascribed to such term under Section 7874(a)(2)(A) as of the date the relevant bilateral treaty is signed. However, as discussed above, the rules under Section 7874 are relatively new, complex and are the subject of current and future legislative and regulatory changes. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with the position that the Merger did not result in the creation of an expatriated entity (within the meaning of Section 7874) under the law as in effect at the time the applicable treaty were to be amended or that such a challenge would not be sustained by a court, or that such position would not be affected by future or regulatory action which may apply retroactively to the Merger.. 21. Transfers of Johnson Controls ordinary shares may be subject to Irish stamp duty.. For the majority of transfers of Johnson Controls ordinary shares, there is no Irish stamp duty. However, Irish stamp duty is payable in respect of certain share transfers. A transfer of Johnson Controls ordinary shares from a seller who holds shares beneficially (i.e. through the Depository Trust Company (\"DTC\")) to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially is not subject to Irish stamp duty (unless the transfer involves a change in the nominee that is the record holder of the transferred shares). A transfer of Johnson Controls ordinary shares by a seller who holds shares directly (i.e. not through DTC) to any buyer, or by a seller who holds the shares beneficially to a buyer who holds the acquired shares directly, may be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired, if higher) payable by the buyer. A shareholder who directly holds shares may transfer those shares into his or her own broker account to be held through DTC without giving rise to Irish stamp duty provided that the shareholder has confirmed to Johnson Controls transfer agent that there is no change in the ultimate beneficial ownership of the shares as a result of the transfer and, at the time of the transfer, there is no agreement in place for a sale of the shares.. We currently intend to pay, or cause one of our affiliates to pay, stamp duty in connection with share transfers made in the ordinary course of trading by a seller who holds shares directly to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially. In other cases Johnson Controls may, in its absolute discretion, pay or cause one of its affiliates to pay any stamp duty. Johnson Controls Memorandum and Articles of Association provide that, in the event of any such payment, Johnson Controls (i) may seek reimbursement from the buyer, (ii) may have a lien against the Johnson Controls ordinary shares acquired by such buyer and any dividends paid on such shares and (iii) may set-off the amount of the stamp duty against future dividends on such shares. Parties to a share transfer may assume that any stamp duty arising in respect of a transaction in Johnson Controls ordinary shares has been paid unless one or both of such parties is otherwise notified by Johnson Controls.. Dividends paid by us may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax.. In certain circumstances, as an Irish tax resident company, we will be required to deduct Irish dividend withholding tax (currently at the rate of 20%) from dividends paid to our shareholders. Shareholders that are resident in the U.S., European Union countries (other than Ireland) or other countries with which Ireland has signed a tax treaty (whether the treaty has been ratified or not) generally should not be subject to Irish withholding tax so long as the shareholder has provided its broker, for onward transmission to our qualifying intermediary or other designated agent (in the case of shares held beneficially), or us or our transfer agent (in the case of shares held directly), with all the necessary documentation by the appropriate due date prior to payment of the dividend. However, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares.. Dividends received by you could be subject to Irish income tax.. Dividends paid in respect of Johnson Controls ordinary shares generally are not subject to Irish income tax where the beneficial owner of these dividends is exempt from dividend withholding tax, unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with Ireland other than his or her shareholding in Johnson Controls.. Johnson Controls shareholders who receive their dividends subject to Irish dividend withholding tax generally will have no further liability to Irish income tax on the dividend unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with Ireland other than his or her shareholding in Johnson Controls."
