[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating our company and our common stock. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be materially adversely affected.. Our financial results are subject to fluctuations caused by many factors that could result in our failing to achieve anticipated financial results and cause a drop in our stock price.. Our quarterly and annual financial results have varied in the past and are likely to continue to vary in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, the contractual terms and the number and size of orders in the capital goods industries in which we compete vary significantly over time. The timing of our sales cycle from receipt of orders to shipment of the products or provision of services can significantly impact our sales and income in any given fiscal period. These and any one or more of the factors listed below, among other things, could cause us not to achieve our revenue or profitability expectations in any given period and the resulting failure to meet such expectations could cause a drop in our stock price:. • volatility in demand for our products and services, including volatility in growth rates in the food processing and air transportation industries;. • downturns in our customers' businesses resulting from deteriorating domestic and international economies where our customers conduct substantial business;. • increases in commodity prices resulting in increased manufacturing costs, such as petroleum-based products, metals or other raw materials we use in significant quantities;. • supply chain interruptions;. • changes in pricing policies resulting from competitive pressures, including aggressive price discounting by our competitors and other market factors;. • our ability to develop and introduce on a timely basis new or enhanced versions of our products and services;. • unexpected needs for capital expenditures or other unanticipated expenses;. • changes in the mix of revenue attributable to domestic and international sales;. • changes in the mix of products and services that we sell;. • changes in foreign currency rates;. • seasonal fluctuations in buying patterns; and. • future acquisitions and divestitures of technologies, products, and businesses.. Variability in the length of our sales cycles makes accurate estimation of our revenue in any single period difficult and can result in significant fluctuation in quarterly operating results.. The length of our sales cycle varies depending on a number of factors over which we may have little or no control, including the size and complexity of a potential transaction, the level of competition that we encounter during our selling process, and our current and potential customers' internal budgeting and approval process. Many of our sales are subject to an extended sales cycle. As a result, we may expend significant effort and resources over a significant period of time in an attempt to obtain an order, but ultimately not obtain the order, or obtain an order that is smaller than we anticipated. Revenue generated by any one of our customers may vary from quarter to quarter, and a customer who places a large order in one quarter may generate significantly lower revenue in subsequent quarters. Due to the length and uncertainty of our sales cycle, and the variability of orders from period to period, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be an accurate indicator of our short term or future performance.. 12. We face risks associated with current and future acquisitions.. To achieve our strategic objectives,  we have pursued and expect to continue to pursue expansion opportunities such as acquiring other businesses or assets. Expanding through acquisitions involves risks such as:. • the incurrence of additional debt to finance the acquisition or expansion;. • additional  liabilities (whether known or unknown), including environmental or pension liabilities of the acquired business or assets;. • risks and costs associated with integrating the acquired business or new facility into our operations;. • the need to retain and assimilate key employees of the acquired business or assets;. • unanticipated demands on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems;. • unanticipated regulatory risks;. • the risk of being denied the necessary licenses, permits and approvals from state, local and foreign governments, and the costs and time associated with obtaining such licenses, permits and approvals;. • risks that we do not achieve anticipated operating efficiencies, synergies and economies of scale; and. • risks in retaining the existing customers and contracts of the acquired business or assets.. If we are unable to effectively integrate acquired businesses or newly formed operations, or if such acquired businesses underperform relative to our expectations, such an expansion may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, and results of operations.. Deterioration of economic conditions could adversely impact our business.. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in current or future national or global economic conditions, including lower growth rates or recession, high unemployment, rising interest rates, limited availability of capital, decreases in consumer spending rates, the availability and cost of energy, and the effect of government deficit reduction, sequestration, and other austerity measures impacting the markets we serve. Any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our products or the cost and availability of our required raw materials, which can have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Adverse national and global economic conditions could, among other things:. • make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain necessary financing for our operations, our investments and our acquisitions, or to refinance our debt;. • cause our lenders or other financial instrument counterparties to be unable to honor their commitments or otherwise default under our financing arrangements;. • impair the financial condition of some of our customers, thereby hindering our customers' ability to obtain financing to purchase our products and/or increasing customer bad debts;. • cause customers to forgo or postpone new purchases in favor of repairing existing equipment and machinery, and delay or reduce preventative maintenance, thereby reducing our revenue and/or profits;. • negatively impact our customers' ability to raise pricing to counteract increased fuel, labor, and other costs, making it less likely that they will expend the same capital and other resources on our equipment as they have in the past;. • impair the financial condition of some of our suppliers thereby potentially increasing both the likelihood of our having to renegotiate supply terms on terms that may not be as favorable to us and the risk of non-performance by suppliers;. • negatively impact global demand for air transportation services as well as the food preparation industry, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income, and cash flows in our JBT AeroTech and JBT FoodTech segments;. 13. • negatively affect the rates of expansion, consolidation, renovation, and equipment replacement within the air transportation industry and within the food processing industry, which may adversely affect the results of operations of our JBT AeroTech and JBT FoodTech segments; and. • impair the financial viability of our insurers.. Disruptions in the political, regulatory, economic and social conditions of the foreign countries in which we conduct business could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We operate manufacturing facilities in eleven countries other than the United States, the largest of which are located in Belgium, China, Sweden, Brazil, Italy, Spain, United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Germany. Our international sales accounted for 40% of our 2017 revenue. Multiple factors relating to our international operations and to those particular countries in which we operate or seek to expand our operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. These factors include, among others:. • economic downturns, inflationary and recessionary markets, including in capital and equity markets;. • civil unrest, political instability, terrorist attacks, and wars;. • nationalization, expropriation, or seizure of assets;. • potentially burdensome taxation in other jurisdictions;. • changes in the mix of our international business operations and revenue relative to our domestic operations, resulting in increasing tax liabilities resulting from repatriation of income generated outside of the United States;. • inability to repatriate income or capital;. • foreign ownership restrictions;. • export regulations that could erode profit margins or restrict exports, including import or export licensing regulations;. • trade restrictions, trade protection measures, or price controls;. • restrictions on operations, trade practices, trade partners, and investment decisions resulting from domestic and foreign laws and regulations;. • compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other similar laws;. • burden and cost of complying with foreign laws, treaties, and technical standards and changes in those regulations;. • transportation delays and interruptions; and. • reductions in the availability of qualified personnel.. Changes to trade regulation, quotas, duties or tariffs, caused by the changing U.S. and geopolitical environments or otherwise, may increase our costs or limit the amount of raw materials and products that we can import.. The current U.S. administration has voiced strong concerns about imports from countries that it perceives as engaging in unfair trade practices, and may decide to impose import duties or other restrictions on products or raw materials sourced from those countries, which may include China and other countries from which we import raw materials or in which we manufacture our products. Any such duties or restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. The result of the Referendum of the United Kingdom's Membership in the European Union have created uncertainties that could have negative effects on us.. The announcement of the Referendum of the United Kingdom's (or the U.K.) Membership in the European Union (E.U.) (referred to as Brexit), advising for the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union, has resulted in significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against certain foreign currencies. 14. in which we conduct business. As described in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk, we translate revenue denominated in foreign currency into U.S. dollars for our financial statements. During periods of a strengthening dollar, our reported international revenue is reduced because foreign currencies translate into fewer U.S. dollars.. The effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the U.K. makes to retain access to E.U. markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. The measures could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and may cause us to lose customers and employees. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate.  These uncertainties may cause our customers to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budget on our products and services.. Any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. A significant portion of our revenue and expenses are realized in foreign currencies. As a result, changes in exchange rates will result in increases or decreases in our costs and earnings and may adversely affect our Consolidated Financial Statements, which are stated in U.S. dollars. Although we may seek to minimize currency exchange risk by engaging in hedging transactions where we deem appropriate, we cannot be assured that our efforts will be successful. Currency fluctuations may also result in our systems and services becoming more expensive and less competitive than those of other suppliers in the foreign countries in which we sell our systems and services.. We have invested substantial resources in certain markets where we expect growth, and our business may suffer if we are unable to achieve the growth we expect.. As part of our strategy to grow, we are expanding our operations in certain emerging or developing markets, and accordingly have made and expect to continue to make substantial investments to support anticipated growth in those regions. We may fail to realize expected rates of return on our existing investments or incur losses on such investments, and we may be unable to redeploy capital to take advantage of other markets. Our results will also suffer if these regions do not grow as quickly as we anticipate.. Our restructuring initiatives may not achieve the expected cost reductions or other anticipated benefits.. We regularly evaluate our existing operations, service capacity, and business efficiencies to determine if a realignment or restructuring could improve our results of operations or achieve some other business goal. Our realignment and restructuring initiatives are designed to result in more efficient and increasingly profitable operations. Our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these initiatives within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive, and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. In 2016, we implemented an optimization program to realign FoodTech's Protein business in North America and Liquid Foods business in Europe, accelerate our strategic sourcing initiatives, and consolidate smaller facilities, and have incurred restructuring charges of $12.0 million related to this plan to date. We may incur similar charges in the future.  Failure to achieve the expected cost reductions related to these restructuring initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our inability to obtain raw materials, component parts, and/or finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner from suppliers would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products.. We purchase raw materials and component parts from suppliers for use in manufacturing our products. We also purchase certain finished goods from suppliers. Changes in our relationships with suppliers or increases in our costs for raw materials, component parts, or finished goods we purchase could result in manufacturing interruptions, delays, inefficiencies, or our inability to market products if we cannot timely and efficiently manufacture them. In addition, our gross margins could decrease if prices of purchased raw materials, component parts, or finished goods increase and we are unable to pass on such price increases to customers.. Regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as \"conflict minerals\", originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries. To implement this legislation, the SEC adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies that use conflict minerals mined from the DRC and adjoining countries in their products. We will continue to incur costs associated with complying with these annual disclosure requirements, including those incurred to conduct diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products and other potential changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a. 15. consequence of such verification activities. These rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering \"conflict free\" conflict minerals of certain types, we cannot be certain that we will continue to be able to obtain necessary conflict minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products.. An increase in energy or raw material prices may reduce the profitability of our customers, which ultimately could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Energy prices are volatile and have been historically high. High energy prices have a negative trickledown effect on our customers' business operations by reducing their profitability because of increased operating costs. Our customers require large amounts of energy to run their businesses, particularly in the air transportation industry. Higher energy prices can reduce passenger and cargo air carrier profitability as a result of increased jet and ground support equipment fuel prices. Higher energy prices also increase food processors' operating costs through increased energy and utility costs to run their plants, higher priced chemical and petroleum based raw materials used in food processing, and higher fuel costs to run their logistics and service fleet vehicles.. Food processors are also affected by the cost and availability of raw materials such as feed grains, livestock, produce, and dairy products. Increases in the cost of and limitations in the availability of such raw materials can negatively affect the profitability of food processors' operations.. Any reduction in our customers' profitability due to higher energy or raw material costs or otherwise may reduce their future expenditures in the food processing equipment or airport equipment that we provide. This reduction may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Changes in food consumption patterns due to dietary trends or economic conditions may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Dietary trends can create demand for protein food products but negatively impact demand for high-carbohydrate foods, or create demand for easy to prepare, transportable meals but negatively impact traditional canned food products. Because different food types and food packaging can quickly go in and out of style as a function of dietary, health, or convenience trends, food processors can be challenged in accurately forecasting their needed manufacturing capacity and the related investment in equipment and services. During periods of economic uncertainty, consumer demand for protein products or processed food products may be negatively impacted by increases in food prices. A demand shift away from protein products or processed foods could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. An outbreak of animal borne diseases (H5N1, BSE, or other virus strains affecting poultry or livestock), citrus tree diseases, or food borne illnesses or other food safety or quality concerns may negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. An outbreak or pandemic stemming from H5N1 (avian flu) or BSE (mad cow disease) or any other animal related disease strains could reduce the availability of poultry or beef that is processed for the restaurant, food service, wholesale or retail consumer. Any limitation on the availability of such raw materials could discourage food producers from making additional capital investments in processing equipment, aftermarket products, parts, and services that our JBT FoodTech business provides. Such a decrease in demand for our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. The success of our business that serves the citrus food processing industry is directly related to the viability and health of citrus crops. The citrus industries in Florida, Brazil, and other countries are facing increased pressure on their harvest productivity and citrus bearing acreage due to citrus canker and greening diseases. These citrus tree diseases are often incurable once a tree has been infested and the end result can be the destruction of the tree. Reduced amounts of available fruit for the processed or fresh food markets could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. In the event an E. coli or other food borne illness causes a recall of meat or produce, the companies supplying those fresh, further processed or packaged forms of those products could be severely adversely affected. Any negative impact on the financial viability of our fresh or processed food provider customers could adversely affect our immediate and recurring revenue base.. 16. Freezes, hurricanes, droughts, or other natural disasters may negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. In the event a natural disaster negatively affects growers or farm production, the food processing industry may not have the fresh food raw materials necessary to meet consumer demand. Crops of entire groves or fields can be severely damaged by a drought, freeze, or hurricane. An extended drought or freeze or a high category hurricane could permanently damage or destroy a tree crop area. If orchards have to be replanted, trees may not produce viable product for several years. Since our recurring revenue is dependent on growers' and farmers' ability to provide high quality crops to certain of our customers, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted in the event of a freeze, hurricane, drought, or other natural disaster.. Our failure to comply with the laws and regulations governing our U.S. government contracts or the loss of production funding of any of our U.S. government contracts could harm our business.. The U.S. government represented approximately 2% of our 2017 revenue, directly or through subcontracts. Our JBT AeroTech business contracts with the U.S. government and subcontracts with defense contractors conducting business with U.S. government. As a result, we are subject to various laws and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the U.S. government.. The laws governing U.S. government contracts differ in several respects from the laws governing private company contracts. Government contracts are highly regulated to curb misappropriation of funds and to ensure uniform policies and practices across various governmental agencies. Funding for such contracts is tied to National Defense Budgets and Procurement Programs that are annually negotiated and approved or disapproved by the U.S. Department of Defense, the Executive Branch, and the Congress. For example, if there were any shifts in spending priorities or if funding for the military aircraft programs were reduced or canceled as a result of the sequestration, policy changes, or for other reasons, the resulting loss of revenue could have a material adverse impact on our JBT AeroTech business. Many U.S. government contracts contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. In particular, U.S. defense contracts are unilaterally terminable at the option of the U.S. government with compensation only for work completed and costs incurred to date. In addition, any deliverable delays under such contracts as a result of our non-performance could also have a negative impact on these contracts.. Non-compliance with the laws and regulations governing U.S. government contracts or subcontracts may result in significant sanctions such as debarment (restrictions from future business with the government). If we were found not to be in compliance now or in the future with any such laws or regulations, our results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks, or acts of war may negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Any future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting our customers or the economy as a whole may materially adversely affect our operations or those of our customers. As a result, there could be delays or losses in transportation and deliveries to our customers, decreased sales of our products, and delays in payments by our customers. Strategic targets such as those relating to transportation and food processing may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. Our airport authority, airline, air cargo and ground handling customers are particularly sensitive to safety concerns, and their businesses may decline after terrorist attacks or threats or during periods of political instability when travelers are concerned about safety issues.  A decline in these customers' businesses could have a negative impact on their demand for our products. It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. The cumulative loss of several significant contracts may negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We often enter into large, project-oriented contracts, or long-term equipment leases and service agreements. These agreements may be terminated or breached, or our customers may fail to renew these agreements. If we were to lose several significant agreements and if we were to fail to develop alternative business opportunities, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. 17. We may lose money or not achieve our expected profitability on fixed-price contracts.. As is customary for several of the business areas in which we operate, we may provide products and services under fixed-price contracts. Under such contracts, we are typically responsible for cost overruns. Our actual costs and any gross profit realized on these fixed-price contracts may vary from our estimates on which the pricing for such contracts was based. There are inherent risks and uncertainties in the estimation process, including those arising from unforeseen technical and logistical challenges or longer than expected lead times for sourcing raw materials and assemblies. A fixed-price contract may significantly limit or prohibit our ability to mitigate the impact of unanticipated increases in raw material prices (including the price of steel and other significant raw materials) by passing on such price increases. Depending on the volume of our work performed under fixed-price contracts at any one time, differences in actual versus estimated performance could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Customer sourcing initiatives may adversely affect our new equipment and aftermarket businesses.. Many multi-national companies, including our customers and prospective customers, have undertaken supply chain integration to provide a sustainable competitive advantage against their competitors. Under continued price pressure from consumers, wholesalers and retailers, our manufacturer customers are focused on controlling and reducing cost, enhancing their sourcing processes, and improving their profitability.. A key value proposition of our equipment and services is low total cost of ownership. If our customers implement sourcing initiatives that focus solely on immediate cost savings and not on total cost of ownership, our new equipment and aftermarket sales could be adversely affected.. To remain competitive, we need to rapidly and successfully develop and introduce complex new solutions in a global, competitive, demanding, and changing environment.. If we lose our significant technology advantage in our products and services, our market share and growth could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to deliver products, features, and functionality as projected, we may be unable to meet our commitments to customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. Significant investments in research and development efforts that do not lead to successful products, features, and functionality,  could also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by competing technology. Some of our competitors are large multinational companies that may have greater financial resources than us, and they may be able to devote greater resources to research and development of new systems, services, and technologies than we are able to do. Moreover, some of our competitors operate in narrow business areas, allowing them to concentrate their research and development efforts more directly on products and services for those areas than we may be able to.. High capacity products or products with new technology may be more likely to experience reliability, quality, or operability problems.. Even with rigorous testing prior to release and investment on product quality processes, problems may be found in newly developed or enhanced products after such products are launched and shipped to customers. Resolution of such issues may cause project delays, additional development costs, and deferred or lost revenue.. New products and enhancements of our existing products may also reduce demand for our existing products or could delay purchases by customers who instead decide to wait for our new or enhanced products. Difficulties that arise in our managing the transition from our older products to our new or enhanced products could result in additional costs and deferred or lost revenue.. We may need to make significant capital and operating expenditures to keep pace with technological developments in our industry.. The industries in which we participate are constantly undergoing development and change, and it is likely that new products, equipment, and service methods will be introduced in the future. We may need to make significant expenditures to purchase new equipment and to train our employees to keep pace with any new technological developments. These expenditures could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. 18. If we are unable to develop, preserve, and protect our intellectual property assets, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be negatively affected.. We strive to protect and enhance our proprietary intellectual property rights through patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, as well as through technological safeguards and operating policies and procedures. To the extent we are not successful, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely impacted. We may be unable to prevent third parties from using our technology without our authorization, or from independently developing technology that is similar to ours, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in others. With respect to our pending patent applications, we may not be successful in securing patents for these claims, and our competitors may already have applied for patents that, once issued, will prevail over our patent rights or otherwise limit our ability to sell our products.. Claims by others that we infringe their intellectual property rights could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We have seen a trend towards aggressive enforcement of intellectual property rights as product functionality in our industry increasingly overlaps and the number of issued patents continues to grow. As a result, there is a risk that we could be subject to infringement claims which, regardless of their validity, could:. • be expensive, time consuming, and divert management attention away from normal business operations;. • require us to pay monetary damages or enter into non-standard royalty and licensing agreements;. • require us to modify our product sales and development plans; or. • require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers.. Regardless of whether these claims have any merit, they can be burdensome and costly to defend or settle and can harm our business and reputation.. Infrastructure failures or catastrophic loss at any of our facilities could lead to production or service curtailments or shutdowns.. We manufacture our products at facilities in the United States, Belgium, China, Sweden, Brazil, Italy, Spain, United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Germany. An interruption in production or service capabilities at any of our facilities as a result of equipment failure or other reasons could result in our inability to manufacture our products. In the event of a stoppage in production at any of our facilities, even if only temporary, or if we experience delays as a result of events that are beyond our control, delivery times to our customers could be severely affected. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could lead to cancellations. Our facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as earthquake, fire, natural disaster, explosions, power loss, unauthorized intrusions, and other catastrophic events. We may also experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failure, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. The business continuity of our information systems, computer equipment, and information databases are critical to our business operations, and any damage or disruptions could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our computer equipment and the information stored in our databases from damage by, among other things, earthquake, fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusions, and other catastrophic events. A part of our operations is based in an area of California that has experienced earthquakes and other natural disasters, while another part of our operations is based in an area of Florida that has experienced hurricanes and other natural disasters. Despite our best efforts at planning for such contingencies, catastrophic events of this nature may still result in system failures and other interruptions in our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. In addition, it is periodically necessary to replace, upgrade, or modify our internal information systems.  For example we are currently in the process of implementing common Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems across the majority of our businesses. If we are unable to do this in a timely and cost-effective manner, especially in light of demands on our information technology resources, our ability to capture and process financial transactions and therefore our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be materially adversely impacted.. 19. We are subject to cyber-security risks arising out of breaches of security relating to sensitive company, client, and employee information and to the technology that manages our operations and other business processes.. Our business operations rely upon secure information technology systems for data capture, processing, storage, and reporting. Notwithstanding careful security and controls design, our information technology systems, and those of our third-party providers could become subject to cyber-attacks. Network, system, application, and data breaches could result in operational disruptions or information misappropriation, including, but not limited to, interruptions to systems availability and denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our clients to conduct business with us. Phishing and other forms of electronic fraud may also subject us to risks associated with improper access to financial assets and customer information. Theft of intellectual property or trade secrets and inappropriate disclosure of confidential information could stem from such incidents. Any such operational disruption and/or misappropriation of information could result in lost sales, negative publicity or business delays and could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business success depends on retaining our senior management and other key personnel and attracting and retaining other qualified employees.. We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of any of these officers or key personnel could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, competition for skilled and non-skilled employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering, technology, and manufacturing is intense, and the loss of skilled or non-skilled employees or an inability to attract, retain, and motivate additional skilled and non-skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to conduct research activities successfully, develop new products and services and meet our customers' requirements.. The industries in which we operate expose us to potential liabilities arising out of the installation or use of our systems that could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. Our equipment, systems and services create potential exposure for us for personal injury, wrongful death, product liability, commercial claims, product recalls, production loss, property damage, pollution, and other environmental damages. In the event that a customer who purchases our equipment becomes subject to claims relating to food borne illnesses or other food safety or quality issues relating to food processed through the use of our equipment, we could be exposed to significant claims from our customers. Although we have obtained business and related risk insurance, we cannot assure you that our insurance will be adequate to cover all potential liabilities. Further, we cannot assure you that insurance will generally be available in the future or, if available, that premiums to obtain such insurance will be commercially reasonable. If we incur substantial liability and damages arising from such liability are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we were to incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Environmental protection initiatives may negatively impact the profitability of our business.. Future environmental regulatory developments in the United States and abroad concerning environmental issues, such as climate change, could adversely affect our operations and increase operating costs and, through their impact on our customers, reduce demand for our products and services. Actions may be taken in the future by the U.S. government, state governments within the United States, foreign governments, or by signatory countries through a new global climate change treaty to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases. Pressures to reduce the footprint of carbon emissions impact the air transportation and manufacturing sectors. Airports, airlines, and air cargo providers are continually looking for new ways to become more energy efficient and reduce pollutants. Manufacturing plants are seeking means to reduce their heat-trapping emissions and minimize their energy and water usage. The precise nature of any such future environmental regulatory requirements and their applicability to us and our customers are difficult to predict, but the impact to us and the industries that we serve would likely be adverse and could be significant, including the potential for increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees, or a requirement to purchase carbon credits.. Our operations and industries are subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws, which can change. We therefore face uncertainties with regard to lawsuits, regulations, and other related matters.. In the normal course of business, we are subject to proceedings, lawsuits, claims, and other matters, including those that relate to the environment, health and safety, employee benefits, import and export compliance, intellectual property, product liability, tax matters, securities regulation, and regulatory compliance. For example, we are subject to changes in foreign laws and regulations that may encourage or require us to hire local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular non-U.S. jurisdiction. In addition, environmental laws and regulations affect the systems and services we design, market and sell, as well as the facilities where we manufacture our systems. We are required to invest financial and managerial resources to comply with environmental laws and regulations and anticipate that we will continue to be required to do so in the future.. 20. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 (the U.K. Bribery Act), and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, there is no assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from acts committed by our employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act or other similar violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We are subject to governmental export controls and economic sanctions laws that could impair our ability to compete in international markets and subject us to liability if we are not in full compliance with applicable laws.. Our business activities are subject to various restrictions under U.S. export controls and trade and economic sanctions laws, including the U.S. Commerce Department's Export Administration Regulations (EAR), the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), and economic and trade sanctions regulations maintained by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). We are subject to similar laws and regulations in other countries in which we operate or make sales. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we and certain of our employees could be subject to civil or criminal penalties and reputational harm. Obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required license, for a particular transaction may be time-consuming, is not guaranteed, and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Furthermore, U.S. export control laws and economic sanctions laws in the U.S. and other countries prohibit certain transactions with U.S. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments, persons and entities. Although we take precautions to prevent transactions with sanction targets, the possibility exists that we could inadvertently provide our products or services to persons prohibited by sanctions. This could result in negative consequences to us, including government investigations, penalties, and reputational harm.. Unfavorable tax law changes and tax authority rulings may adversely affect results.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings among countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets, or tax laws. The amount of income taxes and other taxes are subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state, and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from amounts we record, future financial results may include unfavorable tax adjustments.. If we repatriate any cash and cash equivalents from our foreign subsidiaries back to the U.S., we could be subject to significant tax liabilities.. As of December 31, 2017, our foreign subsidiaries held $29.8 million, or 88%, of our cash and cash equivalents. While we currently intend that cash and cash equivalents held by these foreign subsidiaries will be indefinitely reinvested in foreign jurisdictions in order to fund working capital requirements, make investments, and repay debt (primarily inter-company), if, in the future, cash and cash equivalents held by foreign subsidiaries are needed to fund our operations in the United States or for the purpose of making certain strategic investments in the United States or otherwise, the repatriation of such amounts to the United States could result in a significant incremental tax liability in the period in which the decision to repatriate occurs. Payment of any incremental tax liability would reduce the cash available to us to fund our operations or to make such strategic investment in the United States or otherwise.. Our business could suffer in the event of a work stoppage by our unionized or non-union labor force.. A portion of our employees in the United States are represented by collective bargaining agreements. Outside the United States, we enter into employment contracts and agreements in those countries in which such relationships are mandatory or customary, such as in Belgium, Sweden, Spain, Italy, the Netherlands and China.. Any future strikes, employee slowdowns, or similar actions by one or more unions, in connection with labor contract negotiations or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business.. 21. Our existing financing agreements include restrictive and financial covenants.. Certain of our loan agreements require us to comply with various restrictive covenants and some contain financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios and tests. Our failure to meet these covenants could result in default under these loan agreements and would result in a cross-default under other loan agreements. In the event of a default and our inability to obtain a waiver of the default, all amounts outstanding under loan agreements could be declared immediately due and payable. Our failure to comply with these covenants could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Significant changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and other factors could affect our results of operations, equity, and pension contributions in future periods.. Our results of operations may be positively or negatively affected by the amount of income or expense we record for our defined benefit pension plans. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial market and other economic conditions, which may change based on changes in key economic indicators. The most significant year-end assumptions we use to estimate pension income or expense are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plans assets. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant change to equity through a reduction or increase to accumulated other comprehensive income. For a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies, see Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -Critical Accounting Estimates  -  Defined Benefit Pension and Other Post-retirement Plans and Note 8. Pension and Post-Retirement and Other Benefit Plans to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Although GAAP expense and pension funding contributions are not directly related, key economic factors that affect GAAP expense would also likely affect the amount of cash we would contribute to pension plans as required under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.. As a publicly traded company, we incur regulatory costs that reduce profitability.. As a publicly traded corporation, we incur certain costs to comply with regulatory requirements of the NYSE and of the federal securities laws. If regulatory requirements were to become more stringent or if accounting or other controls thought to be effective later fail, we may be forced to make additional expenditures, the amounts of which could be material. Many of our competitors are privately owned, so our accounting and control costs can be a competitive disadvantage.. Our share repurchase program could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock.. On December 2, 2015, the Board authorized a share repurchase program for up to $30 million of our common stock beginning January 1, 2016 and continuing through December 31, 2018. We have funded the repurchases through cash flows generated by our operations. The amount and timing of share repurchases was based on a variety of factors. Important factors that could cause us to limit, suspend or delay the Company's stock repurchases include unfavorable market conditions, the trading price of the Company's common stock, the nature of other investment opportunities presented to us from time to time, the ability to obtain financing at attractive rates, and the availability of U.S. cash. Repurchases of our shares will reduce the number of outstanding shares of our common stock and might incrementally increase the potential for volatility in our common stock by reducing the potential volumes at which our common stock may trade in the public market.. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance.. We regularly release guidance regarding our future performance that represents our management's estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which consists of forward-looking statements, is prepared by our management and is qualified by, and subject to, the assumptions and the other information contained or referred to in the release or report in which guidance is given. Our guidance is not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the guidance and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto.. Guidance is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed, but are not intended to represent that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release this data is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons.. 22. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from the guidance and the variations may be material. Investors should also recognize that the reliability of any forecasted financial data diminishes the farther in the future that the data are forecast. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to put the guidance in context and not to place undue reliance on it.. Our corporate governance documents, our rights plan, and Delaware law may delay or discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it difficult and expensive for a third-party to pursue a tender offer, change-in-control, or takeover attempt that is opposed by our management and Board of Directors. These provisions include, among others:. • A Board of Directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms;. • Limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors;. • The right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval;. • The inability of our stockholders to act by written consent; and. • Rules and procedures regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors at stockholders meetings.. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in this type of transaction may not have an opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change-in-control or a change in our management or Board of Directors and, as a result, may adversely affect the marketability and market price of our common stock.. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan intended to deter hostile or coercive attempts to acquire us. Under the plan, if any person or group acquires, or begins a tender or exchange offer that could result in such person acquiring 15% or more of our common stock, without approval of our Board of Directors under specified circumstances, our other stockholders will have the right to purchase shares of our common stock, or shares of the acquiring company, at a substantial discount to the public market price. Therefore, the rights will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors, except pursuant to any offer conditioned on a substantial number of rights being acquired. Although we believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders.  The stockholders rights plan will expire in July 2018, and our Board of Directors does not currently intend to replace it."
