[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following risks and factors that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, including revenues, profitability and/or stock price. However, the risks and uncertainties we face are not limited to those described below. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that may broadly affect companies. Furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial (but that later become material) may also adversely affect our business.. General Overview. Our business environment is complex, dynamic, and international. Accordingly, it is subject to a number of significant risks in the ordinary course of its operations. If we cannot or do not successfully manage the risks associated with the services we provide, our operations, business, operating results, reputation, and/or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. One of the challenges of a global business such as ours is to determine in a sophisticated manner the critical enterprise risks that exist or may newly develop over time as our business evolves. We must then determine how best to employ reasonably available resources to prevent, mitigate, and/or minimize those risks that we are able to identify as having the greatest potential to cause significant damage from an operational, financial, or reputational standpoint. An important dynamic we must also consider and appropriately manage is how much and what types of commercial insurance to obtain and how much potential liability may remain uninsured consistent with the infrastructure that is in place within the organization to identify and properly manage it.. Various factors over which we have no control significantly affect commercial real estate markets. These include:. • Macro movements of the stock, bond, currency, and derivatives markets;. • The political environment;. • Government policy and regulations, in each case whether at local, national or international levels;. • Interest rates and the availability of real estate debt financing for our clients;. • The cost and availability of natural and non-renewable resources used to operate real estate; and. • Emerging technologies that are potentially disruptive.. Governance over Enterprise Risk Management. We attempt to approach enterprise risk issues in a coordinated way across the globe. We govern our enterprise risk program primarily through our Global Operating Board (\"GOB\"), which includes our Global Chief Financial Officer, our business segment Chief Operating and Financial Officers, and the leaders of our principal corporate staff groups: Finance, Legal Services, Accounting, Insurance, Human Resources, Tax, Marketing, Information Technology, Business Continuity, Professional Standards, Communications, and Corporate Sustainability. The GOB coordinates its enterprise risk activities with our Internal Audit function, whose leader attends GOB meetings and facilitates quarterly risk assessments of our business to consider where to focus auditing and advisory efforts. In particular, the Enterprise Risk Assessment Committee, a new GOB subcommittee, maintains an ongoing framework and methodology to (i) assess risks inherent the Company's business, (ii) categorize the most significant risks through a consistent, probability-adjusted formula, (iii) decide on what actions to take to lessen the likelihood that the risks that significant risks will result in financial or reputational harm to the Company, and (iv) assign priorities and ownership for purposes of executing those actions. Based on the execution of the risk assessment framework, the Enterprise Risk Assessment Committee communicates the identified risks to the Global Executive Board (GEB), the Company's other business boards, the GOB and its subcommittees and, as appropriate, the Audit Committee and the full Board of Directors.. Our Board of Directors (the \"Board\") and its Committees take active roles in overseeing management's identification and mitigation of the Company's enterprise risks. The Audit Committee focuses on the process by which management continuously identifies its enterprise risks and monitors the mitigation efforts that have been established. The Board focuses on substantive aspects of management's evaluation of our enterprise risks and the efforts we take to contain and mitigate them. Each of the Compensation Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee also monitors and discusses with management those risks that are inherent in the matters that are within each such Committee's purview.. 30. Table of Contents. As a regular part of its establishment of executive compensation, the Compensation Committee considers how the structuring of our compensation programs will affect risk-taking and the extent to which they will drive alignment with the long-term success of the enterprise and the interests of our shareholders.. In the normal course of its activities, our Nominating and Governance Committee reviews emerging best practices in corporate governance and stays abreast of changes in laws and regulations that affect the way we conduct our corporate governance, which represents another important aspect of overall enterprise risk management.. Risk Mitigation Efforts. We do not attempt to discuss in this section all of the various significant efforts we employ to attempt to mitigate or contain the risks we identify, although we believe we have a robust program to do so in a systematic way. These efforts include: (i) quarterly reviews by our GOB of operational errors and litigation events so that we can consider whether there are steps we can take, such as changes to policies or additional staff training, that will prevent similar issues from recurring; (ii) monthly reviews by our global team of Ethics Officers of internal ethics matters (starting in 2014, including the cost of investigating and resolving them) and general external ethics issues as well as consideration of whether there are new or different activities we can establish within our Ethics Everywhere program in order to proactively address them; (iii) the activities by our Director of Professional Standards to coordinate enterprise risk mitigation and prevention among the business, our internal auditors and our other corporate staff functions; (iv) monthly reviews by our Global Safety and Governance Committee of safety events and incidents along with ensuring JLL has appropriate safety programs and protocols across regions and platforms; and (v) monthly reviews by our Cyber Committee to evaluate and adapt current prevention efforts and risk mitigation strategies against ever-changing cyber threats.. Seeking Opportunities in Risks. Risks in business can also mean opportunity if they can be translated into services that help clients mitigate their own risks and for which they are willing to pay fees that adequately compensate the provider for the risks being absorbed. An example of how we may be able to monetize the absorption of risks is our ability to charge fees for taking on, as principal, the risks of performance of subcontractors so that our clients do not have to bear them directly. Another example is our experience and ability to conduct business with integrity in emerging markets that are generally perceived to be less transparent. This allows us to charge fees to multi-national firms that want to expand their footprint into new markets with the assistance of service providers they can trust to protect their interests and act according to ethical and other best practices.. Categorization of Enterprise Risks. This section reflects our current views, as of the issuance of this report, concerning the most significant risks we believe our business faces, both in the short term and the long term. We do not, however, purport to include every possible risk from which we might sustain a loss. For purposes of the following analysis and discussion, we generally group the risks we face according to four principal categories:. • Strategic Risk Factors;. • Operational Risk Factors;. • Legal and Compliance Risk Factors; and. • Financial Risk Factors.. We could appropriately place some of the risks we identify in more than one category, but we have chosen the one category we view as primary. We do not necessarily present the risks below in their order of significance, the relative likelihood that we will experience a loss, or the magnitude of any such loss. Certain of these risks also may give rise to business opportunities for the Company, but our discussion of risk factors in Item 1A is limited to the adverse effects the risks may have on our business.. 31. Table of Contents. Strategic Risk Factors. Strategic risk relates to JLL's future business plans and strategies, including the risks associated with: the global macro-environment in which we operate; mergers and acquisitions and restructuring activity; intellectual property; and other risks, including the demand for our services, competitive threats, technology and innovation, and public policy.. GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND REAL ESTATE MARKET CONDITIONS CAN HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS.. The success of our business is significantly related to general economic conditions, and our business and financial conditions correlate strongly to local and national economic and political conditions or, at least, to the perceptions and confidence of investors and users as to the relevant economic outlook. For example, corporations may be hesitant to expand space or enter into long-term commitments if they are concerned about the general economic or political environment. Corporations that are under individual financial pressure for any reason, or are attempting to more aggressively manage their expenses, may (i) reduce the size of their workforces, (ii) reduce spending on capital expenditures, including with respect to their offices, (iii) permit more of their staff to work from home offices, and/or (iv) seek corresponding reductions in office space and related management services.. We have previously experienced, and expect in the future that we will be negatively impacted by, periods of economic slowdown or recession and corresponding declines in the demand for real estate and related services. The global economic crisis during the 2007-2009 period was extraordinary for its worldwide scope, severity and impact on major financial institutions, as well as for the extent of governmental stimulus and regulatory responses. From 2011 through the first part of 2016, core real estate markets in the major urban centers of most countries were supported by the low interest rates promoted by central banks. While interest rates in certain countries have rebounded to an extent throughout 2017, the interest rate environment across the globe is quite low in a historical context. These dynamics have been favorable to our LaSalle business, particularly as they have helped us raise new capital to invest and sell properties into strong markets, which benefits our clients and generates incentive fees and equity earnings. However, many of our markets were also affected generally by various geo-political and economic uncertainties, among them: the vote in June 2016 by the United Kingdom to leave the European Union; a slowdown in the growth of the China economy, particularly driven by its Tier 2 cities; instability in the Middle East that has exacerbated the randomness in other parts of the world (such as France and Germany) of terrorism and caused pressures from an immigration perspective (such as in the European Union countries); continued significant volatility in oil and commodity prices; the developing effects of climate change and severe weather; the continued uncertainty on the direction of global tax policy; and the continuing uncertainty about the direction of the political environment in many countries.. Although we have been able to continue to grow our business largely by gaining market share and as the result of targeted acquisitions, it is inherently difficult for us to predict how these types of significant global forces will affect our business and whether we will continue to be able to generate revenue growth in the future to the same extent as we have in the past.. The speed with which markets change, both positively and negatively, has accelerated due to the increased global interconnectivity that has resulted from the immediacy and availability of information permitted by the Internet and social media, among other reasons. This has added to the challenges of anticipating and quickly adapting to changes in business and revenue, particularly since real estate transactions are inherently complicated and longer-term in nature.. 32. Table of Contents. Negative economic conditions and declines in demand for real estate and related services in several markets or in significant markets could have a material adverse effect on our performance as a result of the following factors:. • Decline in Acquisition and Disposition Activity. A general decline in acquisition and disposition activity for commercial real estate can lead to a reduction in the fees and commissions we receive for arranging such transactions, as well as in fees and commissions we earn for arranging financing for acquirers. This can affect both our Capital Markets and Hotels business in our RES segments as well as our LaSalle business, although not necessarily always negatively. For example, major credit contractions, such as those that took place during the recent global financial crisis, negatively impact real estate pricing and transaction volumes, which reduces our capital markets transaction fees. Higher interest rates, which increase the cost of debt financing to clients, will also negatively impact transaction volumes. However, a continued bias by investors toward conservatism means that their appetite for core investment products, which is a LaSalle strength, remains noticeably higher than for opportunistic or speculative products.. • Decline in Real Estate Values and Performance, Leasing Activity and Rental Rates. A general decline in the value and performance of real estate and in rental rates can lead to a reduction in both (i) investment management fees, a significant portion of which are generally based on the performance of investments and net asset values, and (ii) the value of the co-investments we make with our investment management clients or merchant banking investments we have made for our own account. Additionally, such declines can lead to a reduction in fees and commissions that are based on the value of, or revenue produced by, the properties with respect to which we provide services. This may include fees and commissions (i) for property management and valuations, (ii) generated by our Capital Markets & Hotels service line and other businesses for arranging acquisitions, dispositions, and financings, and (iii) for arranging leasing transactions. Such declines can also lead to an unwillingness or inability of clients to make new (or honor existing) capital commitments to funds sponsored by our investment management business, which can result in a decline of both investment management fees and incentive fees, and can also restrict our ability to employ capital for new investments in current funds or establish new funds.. Historically for firms in our industry, a significant decline in real estate values in a given market has also generally tended to result in increased litigation and claims regarding advisory and valuation work performed prior to the decline, as well as pressure from investment management clients regarding performance.. • Decline in Value of Real Estate Securities. A general decline in the value of real estate securities (for example, REITs) will have a negative effect on the value of the portfolios that our LaSalle business manages, and any securities held in accounts that LaSalle manages, and therefore the fees we earn on assets under management. In addition, a general decline in the value of real estate securities could negatively impact the amount of money that investors are willing to allocate to real estate securities and the pace of engaging new investor clients.. • Cyclicality in the Real Estate Markets; Lag in Recovery Relative to Broader Markets. Cyclicality in the real estate markets may lead to cyclicality in our earnings and significant volatility in our stock price, which in recent years has continued to be highly sensitive to market perception of the global economy generally and our industry specifically. This volatility was evident during the significant stock market decline at the beginning of 2016, when JLL's stock declined significantly even though our underlying business realized record-setting performance in 2015. Real estate markets are also thought to \"lag\" the broader economy. This means that even when underlying economic fundamentals improve in a given market, it may take additional time for these improvements to translate into strength in real estate markets. This may be exacerbated when banks delay their resolution of commercial real estate assets whose values are less than their associated loans.. 33. Table of Contents. • Effect of Changes in Non-Real Estate Markets. Changes in non-real estate markets can also affect our business in different ways for different types of investors. For example, relative strength in the equity markets, as we experienced throughout 2017, can lead certain investors to lower the level of capital allocated to real estate, which in turn can mean that our ability to generate fees from the operation of our investment management business will be negatively impacted. Strength in the equity markets can also negatively impact the perception of relative performance of real estate as an asset class, which in turn means that the incentive fees relating to the performance of our investment funds may be negatively impacted. Offsetting these factors, a low interest rate environment, such as we have experienced in recent years, can make yields from real estate more attractive compared to bonds, which has supported REIT stocks.. REAL ESTATE SERVICES AND INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT MARKETS ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE.. We provide a broad range of commercial real estate and investment management services. There is significant competition on international, regional, and local levels with respect to many of these services and in commercial real estate services generally. Depending on the service, we face competition from other real estate service providers, institutional lenders, insurance companies, investment banking firms, investment managers, accounting firms, technology firms, consulting firms, co-locating providers, temporary space providers, and firms providing outsourcing of various types (including technology and building products), any of which may be a global, regional, or local firm, and firms that self-provide their real estate services with in-house capabilities.. Many of our competitors are local or regional firms. Although they may be substantially smaller in overall size than we are, they may be larger than we are in a specific local or regional market. Some of our competitors have expanded the services they offer in an attempt to gain additional business. Some may be providing outsourced facility management services in order to sell clients products (such as HVAC systems or food services) that we do not offer. In some sectors of our business, particularly Corporate Solutions, some of our competitors may have greater financial, technical, and marketing resources, larger customer bases, and more established relationships with their customers and suppliers than we have. Larger or better-capitalized competitors in those sectors may be able to respond faster to the need for technological changes, price their services more aggressively, compete more effectively for skilled professionals, finance acquisitions more easily, develop innovative products more effectively, and generally compete more aggressively for market share. This can also lead to increasing commoditization of the services we provide and increasing downward pressure on the fees we can charge.. New competitors, or alliances among competitors that increase their ability to service clients, could emerge and gain market share, develop a lower cost structure, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, aggressively recruit our people at above-market compensation, develop a descriptive technology that captures market share, or provide services that gain greater market acceptance than the services we offer. Some of these may come from non-traditional sources, such as information aggregators or digital technology firms. To respond to increased competition and pricing pressure, we may have to lower our prices, loosen contractual terms (such as liability limitations), develop our own innovative approaches to mining data and using information, develop our own disruptive technologies, or increase compensation, which may have an adverse effect on our revenue and profit margins. We may also need to become increasingly productive and efficient in the way we deliver services or with respect to the cost structure supporting our businesses, which may in turn require more innovative uses of technology as well as data gathering and data mining.. Our industry has continued to consolidate, as evidenced by alliances in recent history that have resulted in the Newmark Knight Frank business and the merger first between DTZ and Cassidy Turley and then between DTZ and Cushman & Wakefield, all of which included firms that had previously had significant financial problems but were able to recapitalize and reposition themselves. During 2015, CBRE Group, Inc., acquired the facility management business of Johnson Controls, Inc., which materially increased CBRE's revenues. In mid-December 2017, Newmark Group, Inc., a subsidiary of BGC Partners, Inc. (\"BGC\") which acquired Newmark Grubb Knight Frank, announced the closing of its initial public offering dropping the name Grubb in preparation for the public offering. There is an inherent risk that competitive firms may be more successful than we are at growing through merger and acquisition activity. While we have successfully grown organically and through a series of acquisitions, sourcing and completing acquisitions are complex and sensitive activities. In light of the continuing need to provide clients with more comprehensive services on a more productive and cost-efficient basis, we expect acquisition opportunities to continue to emerge. We are considering, and will continue to consider, acquisitions that we believe will strengthen our market position, increase our profitability, and supplement our organic growth. We have found it relatively more challenging to identify appropriate acquisition candidates in our investment management business than we. 34. Table of Contents. have been able to do in our RES business. In any event, there is no assurance that we will be able to continue our acquisition activity in the future at the same pace as we have in the past, particularly as we weigh acquisition opportunities against other potential uses of capital for technology and other investments in systems and human resources, as well as returning capital to shareholders.. We believe we emerged from the global economic downturn in a stronger financial and market share position relative to certain of our traditional competitors. This may in some cases lead to a willingness on the part of a competitor to engage in aggressive pricing, advertising or hiring practices in order to maintain market share or client relationships. To the extent this occurs, it increases the competitive risks and the fee and compensation pressures we face, although ramifications will differ from one competitor to another given their different positions within the marketplace and their different financial situations.. We are substantially dependent on long-term client relationships and on revenue received for services under various service agreements. Many of these agreements may be canceled by the client for any reason with as little as 30 to 60 days' notice, as is typical in the industry. In this competitive market, if we are unable to maintain these relationships or are otherwise unable to retain existing clients and develop new clients, our business, results of operations and/or financial condition may be materially adversely affected. The global economic downturn and continued weaknesses in the markets in which they themselves compete led to additional pricing pressure from clients as they themselves came under financial pressure, participated in governmental bail-out programs or filed for bankruptcy or insolvency protection, as some significant clients did. These effects declined as economic conditions across the globe improved 2017, but they could increase again in the wake of the continuing political and economic uncertainties within the European Union, the United States, China, India, Russia, or the Middle East, including as a result of volatility in oil and commodity prices, changes in trade policies, and other political and commercial factors over which we have no control.. THE SEASONALITY OF OUR REAL ESTATE SERVICES BUSINESS EXPOSES US TO RISKS.. Within our Real Estate Services business, our revenue and profits have historically grown progressively by quarter throughout the year. This is a result of a general focus in the real estate industry on completing or documenting transactions by fiscal year-end and the fact that certain of our expenses are constant through the year. Historically, we have reported a relatively smaller profit in the first quarter and then increasingly larger profit during each of the following three quarters, excluding the recognition of investment-generated performance fees and co-investment equity gains or losses (each of which can be particularly unpredictable).. The seasonality of our business makes it difficult to determine during the course of the year whether planned results will be achieved, and thus to budget and to adjust to changes in expectations. Additionally, negative economic or other conditions that arise at a time when they impact performance in the fourth quarter, such as the particular timing of when larger transactions close or changes in the value of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, may have a more pronounced impact than if they occurred earlier in the year. To the extent we are not able to identify and adjust for changes in expectations or we are confronted with negative conditions that inordinately impact the fourth quarter of a calendar year, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial performance.. Growth in our property management and integrated facility management businesses and other services related to the growth of outsourcing of corporate real estate services has lessened, to an extent, the seasonality in our revenue and profits during the past few years. However, we believe that some level of seasonality will always be inherent in our industry and outside of our control, as was the case in 2017. We are unable to predict whether the dynamic nature of the markets in which we operate, or any change in their economic or political structures, will have a material effect on the historical seasonality of our business in 2018 and beyond.. RISKS INHERENT IN MAKING ACQUISITIONS AND ENTERING INTO JOINT VENTURES.. Historically, a significant component of our growth has been generated by acquisitions. Any future growth through acquisitions will depend in part upon the continued availability of suitable acquisitions at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions, which may not be available to us. From 2005 through 2016, we completed more than 100 acquisitions as part of our global growth strategy, with 48 acquisitions completed in 2015 and 2016. In 2017, we intentionally slowed down the pace of acquisitions to focus on the continued integration of companies we previously acquired.. 35. Table of Contents. Acquisitions subject us to a number of significant risks, any of which may prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits or synergies of the acquisition. The integration of companies is a complex and time-consuming process that could significantly disrupt the businesses of JLL and the acquired company. The challenges involved in integration and realizing the benefits of an acquisition include:. • Diversion of management attention and financial resources from existing operations;. • Difficulties in integrating cultures, compensation structures, operations, existing contracts, accounting processes and methodologies, technology, and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses;. • Failure to identify potential liabilities during the due diligence process;. • Failure to identify improper accounting practices during the due diligence process;. • Inability to retain the management, key personnel, and other employees of the acquired business;. • Inability to retain clients of the acquired business;. • Exposure to legal, environmental, employment, professional standards, bribery, money-laundering, ethics, antitrust, and other types of claims for improper activities of the acquired business prior to acquisition, including those that may not have been adequately identified during the pre-acquisition due diligence investigation or those which the legal documentation associated with the transaction did not successfully terminate or transfer;. • Addition of business lines in which we have not previously engaged (for example, general contractor services for \"ground-up\" construction development projects) or geographical locations where we have not previously conducted business; and. • Potential impairment of intangible assets, which could adversely affect our reported results.. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating our operations with those of another company or otherwise to realize any of the anticipated benefits of an acquisition could have a material adverse effect. Liabilities that we may either knowingly or inadvertently assume may not be fully insured. Additionally, the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the consideration payable for the acquisition or other resources to another opportunity.. To a much lesser degree, we have occasionally entered into joint ventures to conduct certain businesses or enter new geographies, and we will consider doing so in appropriate situations in the future. Joint ventures have many of the same risk characteristics as we discuss above with respect to acquisitions, particularly with respect to the due diligence and ongoing relationship with the joint venture partner(s), given that each partner has inherently less control in a joint venture and will be subject to the authority and economics of the particular structure that is negotiated. Given a particular structure, we may not have the authority to direct the management and policies of the joint venture. If a joint venture participant acts contrary to our interest, it could harm our brand, business, results of operations, and financial condition.. POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC INSTABILITY AND TRANSPARENCY: PROTECTIONISM; TERRORIST ACTIVITIES; HEALTH EPIDEMICS.. We provide services in over 80 countries with varying degrees of political and economic stability and transparency. For example, within the past few years certain Middle Eastern, Asian, European, and South American countries have experienced serious political and economic instability that will likely continue to arise from time to time in countries in which we have operations. During 2016 and continuing during 2017, the results of both the Brexit vote in the United Kingdom and the United States presidential election created uncertainties about the political and economic future direction of each of those countries. It is difficult for us to predict where or when a significant change in the political leadership or regime within a given country may occur, or what the implications of such a change will be on our operations given that legislative, regulatory, tax, and business environments can be altered quickly and dramatically. For example, continuing political activities in Russia, Turkey, Brazil, and separately in various Middle Eastern countries, have significantly disrupted business activity in those countries. Also, in recent years there have been significant political changes in a number of countries, including, India, Brazil and the United States as examples, resulting in changes to financial, tax, healthcare, governance, immigration, and other laws that may directly affect our business and continue to evolve.. 36. Table of Contents. Our ability to operate our business in the ordinary course and our willingness to commit new resources or investments may be affected or disrupted in one way or another, such as reductions in revenue, increases in taxes (due to more aggressive taxation policies), increases in other expenses (such as with respect to employee healthcare), restrictions on repatriating funds, difficulties in collecting receivables from clients, difficulties in recruiting staff, increased corruption, or other material adverse effects.. In the event that governments engage in protectionist policies which favor local firms over foreign firms or which restrict cross-border capital flows, our ability to utilize and benefit from our global platform and integrated business model could be adversely affected. The global downturn significantly added to the deficit spending of certain governments in countries where we do business, and also called into question the creditworthiness of some countries. This issue has still not entirely gone away, Russia, Greece and Venezuela being examples, and more recently has been exacerbated by continuing political issues and other factors such as the significant volatility in oil and commodities prices. While the U.S. Federal Reserve loosened its monetary policies through low interest rates and quantitative easing programs for a number of years, some European governments instituted austerity programs in an effort to contract spending and avoid defaults on sovereign debt, some of which resulted in social unrest. The social unrest resulting from the implementation of the austerity programs has diminished, and some European countries seem to have emerged successfully as they have also more recently loosened their own monetary policies. There has been some speculation that one or more European countries may stop using the Euro as their currency or that additional countries may exit the European Union in the wake of the Brexit vote. The United States and the European Union have instituted various sanctions against Russia as a result of that country's actions with respect to Ukraine and Crimea, and have more recently loosened sanctions on Iran in the wake of an agreement regarding that country's nuclear program. It is inherently difficult to predict what the consequences to our business may be from these situations as they develop further.. In addition, terrorist activities have escalated in recent years, have become increasingly unpredictable, and at times have affected cities in which we operate. The 2015 terrorist attack in Paris, France, where we have a presence, is an example; further there have been subsequent serious situations in other cities where we have operations, including Barcelona, Berlin, Brussels, Nice, Istanbul, Orlando, Las Vegas, and Stockholm. To the extent that similar terrorist activities continue to occur, they may adversely affect our business because they tend to target the same type of high-profile urban areas in which we do business. The randomness of these attacks are impacting local economies, especially tourism, and, to a lesser extent, international businesses with U.S. firms in particular canceling events in some European cities.. Health epidemics that affect the general conduct of business in one or more urban areas (including as the result of travel restrictions and the inability to conduct face-to-face meetings), such as occurred in the past from influenza, or may occur in the future from other types of outbreak, can also adversely affect the volume of business transactions, real estate markets and the cost of operating real estate or providing real estate services. Outbreaks of the Zika virus in Central and South America, and subsequently in the U.S., raised significant concerns globally.. The increasing globalization by our multi-national clients creates pressure to further expand our own geographical reach into less developed countries, including for example within Africa, which tends to exacerbate the above risks. As we continue to provide services in countries that have relatively higher security risks and lower levels of transparency, our exposure to the risks inherent in doing business in less developed markets increases.. ABILITY TO PROTECT INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY; INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD-PARTY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS.. Our business depends, in part, on our ability to identify and protect proprietary information and other intellectual property such as our service marks, domain names, client lists and information, business methods, and technology innovations and platforms that we may create or acquire. Existing laws of some countries in which we provide or intend to provide services, or the extent to which their laws are actually enforced, may offer only limited protections of our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, non-disclosure, and other contractual arrangements, and on patent, copyright, and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. In particular, we hold various trademarks and trade names, including our principal trade names, \"JLL\" and \"LaSalle.\" If either of our registered trade names were to expire or terminate, our competitive position in certain markets could be materially and adversely affected. Our inability to detect unauthorized use (for example, by current or former employees) or take appropriate or timely steps to enforce our intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our business.. 37. Table of Contents. We cannot be sure that the intellectual property that we may use in the course of operating our business or the services we offer to clients do not infringe on the rights of third parties, although, in order to mitigate the risk, we do obtain from the licensors representations and warranties, as well as indemnities, which they do not infringe. We may have infringement claims asserted against us or against our clients. These claims may harm our reputation, cost us money, and prevent us from offering some services.. Confidential intellectual property is increasingly stored or carried on mobile devices, such as laptop computers, tablets, and smartphones, which makes inadvertent disclosure more of a risk in the event the mobile devices are lost or stolen and the information has not been adequately safeguarded or encrypted. This also makes it easier for a third party with access to our systems, or a third party who gains unauthorized access by \"hacking,\" \"phishing,\" or other type of cyber-attack, to steal information and use it to the disadvantage of our company, our clients, or our people. We believe that the risk from cyber-attacks has increased significantly as major firms and other entities during the past few years reported that they had experienced broad-based theft of customer and internal data, with material financial and reputational consequences. We have experienced various types of cyber-attack incidents, which to-date have been contained and have not been material to the organization as a whole. As a result, we have continued to implement new governance, technical protections, and other procedures.. Advances in technology, which permit increasingly large amounts of information to be stored on smaller devices or on third-party \"cloud\" servers, as well as the proliferation of social media techniques, tend to exacerbate these risks. On the other hand, cloud capabilities also allow us to conduct more monitoring of our email and other knowledge storing mechanisms to pro-actively detect misuse of our intellectual property. We are also in the process of implementing certain additional monitoring systems, as well as various data analytics designed to detect potential conflicts of interests and other inappropriate behaviors. While we believe these activities are beneficial from the perspective of protecting our assets, including clients' intellectual property to which we may have access, they carry certain risks related to compliance with privacy and other applicable regulations in certain countries.. CO-INVESTMENT, INVESTMENT, MERCHANT BANKING AND REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT BANKING ACTIVITIES.. An important part of our business strategy includes investing in real estate, both individually and along with our investment management clients. As of December 31, 2017, we have potential unfunded commitment obligations of $216.5 million to fund future co-investments. In order to remain competitive with well-capitalized financial services firms, we also may make merchant banking investments for which we may use Company capital to acquire properties before the related investment management funds have been established or investment commitments have been received from third-party clients. A strategy that we have not pursued vigorously, but that still has potential, is to further engage in certain real estate investment banking activities in which we, either solely or with one or more joint venture partners, would employ capital to assist our clients in maximizing the value of their real estate. For example, we might acquire a property from a client that wishes to dispose of it within a certain time frame, after which we would market it for sale as the principal and therefore assume any related market risk.. We also operate business lines that have as part of their strategy the acquisition, development, management and sale of real estate. Investing in any of these types of situations exposes us to a number of risks.. Investing in real estate for the above reasons poses the following risks:. • We may lose some or all of the capital that we invest if the investments underperform. Real estate investments can underperform as the result of many factors outside of our control, including the general reduction in asset values within a particular geography or asset class. Starting in 2007 and continuing through 2009, for example, real estate prices in many markets throughout the world declined generally as the result of the significant tightening of the credit markets and the effects of recessionary economies and significant unemployment. We recognized impairment charges of $1.2 million, $1.7 million and $6 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, primarily representing our co-investment share of the impairment charges against individual assets held by our real estate ventures. In contrast, as real estate investments benefited from favorable interest rate environments globally and continuing recovery in many of our markets, for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 we recognized equity earnings from our co-investments of $44.4 million, $33.8 million and $77.4 million, respectively.. 38. Table of Contents. • We will have fluctuations in earnings and cash flow as we recognize gains or losses, and receive cash, upon the disposition of investments, the timing of which is geared toward the benefit of our clients.. • We generally hold our investments in real estate through subsidiaries with limited liability; however, in certain circumstances, it is possible that this limited exposure may be expanded in the future based on, among other things, changes in applicable laws. To the extent this occurs, our liability could exceed the amount we have invested.. • We make co-investments in real estate in many countries, and this presents risks as described above. This may include changes to tax treaties, tax policy, foreign investment policy, or other local political or legislative changes that may adversely affect the performance of our co-investments. Countries' efforts to lessen legal tax avoidance through changes in their domestic tax laws and treaties and to reform their tax laws to broaden the bases of income which are subject to taxation have increased in recent years and may continue at a rapid pace, which could produce adverse effects.. • We generally make co-investments in the local currency of the country in which the investment asset exists. We will therefore be subject to the risks described below under \"Currency Restrictions and Exchange Rate Fluctuations.\". In certain situations, although they have been relatively limited historically, we raise funds from outside investors where we are the sponsor of real estate investments, developments, or projects. To the extent we return less than the investors' original investments because the investments, developments, or projects have underperformed relative to expectations, the investors could attempt to recoup the full amount of their investments under securities law theories such as lack of adequate disclosure when funds were initially raised. Sponsoring funds into which retail investors are able to invest may increase this risk.. INFRASTRUCTURE DISRUPTIONS.. Our ability to conduct a global business may be adversely impacted by disruptions to the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which they are located. This may include disruptions involving electrical, communications, information technology, transportation, or other services used by JLL or third parties with which we conduct business. It may also include disruptions as a result of political instability, general labor strikes or turmoil, cyber-attacks, or terrorist attacks, and also as a result of natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, and floods, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise. In 2017, the impact of such natural disasters was significant. In September alone there was a litany of natural disasters, including four hurricanes and two earthquakes affecting portions of the U.S. and Mexico. The infrastructure disruptions we experience as a result of such disasters also disrupt our ability to manage real estate for clients or may adversely affect the value of real estate investments we make on behalf of clients.. These disruptions may occur, for example, as a result of events affecting only the buildings in which we operate (such as fires or targeted terrorist attacks), or as a result of events with a broader impact on the cities where those buildings are located (including, potentially, the longer-term effects of global climate change). Nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including Chicago, Washington, D.C., London, Singapore, Frankfurt, and Sydney, work in close proximity to each other in one or more buildings. If a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel.. The infrastructure disruptions we describe above may also disrupt our ability to manage real estate for clients or may adversely affect the value of real estate investments we make on behalf of clients. The buildings we manage for clients, which include some of the world's largest office properties and retail centers, are used by many people daily. As a result, fires, earthquakes, floods, other natural disasters, and terrorist attacks can result in significant loss of life, and, to the extent we are held to have been negligent in connection with our management of the affected properties, we could incur significant financial liabilities and reputational harm.. The occurrence of natural disasters and terrorist attacks can also significantly impact the availability and/or cost of commercial insurance policies covering real estate, both for our own business and for those clients whose properties we manage and who may purchase their insurance through the insurance buying programs we make available to them. Sometimes, even where policies are available, specific coverage for wind, flooding, earthquakes, or terrorism may not be available or may be very expensive.. 39. Table of Contents. There can be no assurance that the disaster recovery and crisis management procedures we employ will suffice in any particular situation to avoid a significant loss. Given that our staff is increasingly mobile and less reliant on physical presence in a JLL or LaSalle office, our disaster recovery plans increasingly rely on the availability of the Internet (including cloud-based technology) and mobile phone technology, so the disruption of those systems, such as because of a cyber attack, would likely affect our ability to recover promptly from a crisis situation.. Additionally, our ability to foresee or mitigate the potential consequences to managed properties, and real estate generally, from the effects of climate change, may be limited. We have significant operations and client relationships in states with coastal exposure, such as New York and Florida.. COMPETITION FOR TALENT.. Our business depends on the continued availability of skilled personnel with industry experience and knowledge, including our senior management team and other key employees. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, or to successfully plan for succession of employees holding key management positions, our business and operating results could suffer. There is a further risk of losing talent (and intellectual property and client contacts) to competitors, particularly in the context of increased use of social media networks and transparency of employment information, such as through Glassdoor. These risks increase as we continue to grow as an organization and increase the number of staff, which has expanded significantly over the past decade. There may also be an increase in recruitment and compensation costs. We and our competitors use equity incentives and bonuses to help attract, retain and incentivize key personnel. As competition is significant for the services of such personnel, the expense of such incentives and bonuses may increase and we may be unable to attract or retain such personnel to the same extent that we have in the past. We are also challenged to find sufficiently trained staff in emerging markets and, as a result, we may need to provide our own training programs, which increases both our Company costs as well as the risk of performance for clients. In particular in successful emerging markets, such as India, attrition by highly informed and mobile staff, is a challenge for all companies.. EVOLUTION OF DIGITAL AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY.. The dynamic nature of the Internet and social media, which have substantially increased the availability and transparency of information, could devalue the information that we gather and disseminate as part of our business model and may harm certain aspects of our brokerage business in the event that principals of transactions prefer to transact directly with each other. In this regard, we face potential disintermediation challenges from firms whose primary business is to aggregate and disseminate for compensation the listing information they obtain from companies like ours that represent commercial landlords offering space to let. We may also need to become increasingly productive and efficient in the way we deliver services or with respect to the cost structure supporting our businesses, which may in turn require more innovative uses of technology as well as data gathering and data mining. The ability to protect our intellectual property electronically becomes more challenging as more information becomes publicly available. Associated with this is the potential decline in demand for commercial real estate as flexible working practices increasingly become the norm.. Mobile technologies and online collaboration tools are transforming how business gets done. Information technology has entered a big data era. Process power and data storage are becoming almost free; networks and the cloud provide global access and a wide range of services; social media is pervasive in the global society, and work and cybersecurity is increasingly important as \"hacking\" and \"phishing\" become more sophisticated. The evolution of digital technology and information technology presents significant challenges for businesses and societies, which must find ways to capture the benefits of new IT technologies while dealing with the new threats that those technologies present.. 40. Table of Contents. Operational Risk Factors. Operational risk relates to risks arising from systems, processes, people and external events that affect the operation of our businesses. It includes information management and data protection and security, including cyber security; supply chain and business disruption; and other risks, including human resources and reputation.. REPUTATIONAL AND BRAND RISKS.. The value and premium status of our brand is one of our most important assets. An inherent risk in maintaining our brand is that we may fail to successfully differentiate the scope and quality of our service and product offerings from those of our competitors, or that we may fail to sufficiently innovate or develop improved products or services that will be attractive to our clients. Additionally, given the rigors of the competitive marketplace in which we operate, there is the risk that we may not be able to continue to find ways to operate more productively and more cost-effectively, including by achieving economies of scale, or that we will be limited in our ability to further reduce the costs required to operate on a globally coordinated platform.. The rapid dissemination and increasing transparency of information, particularly for public companies, increases the risks to our business that could result from negative media or announcements about ethics lapses or other operational problems, which could lead clients to terminate or reduce their relationships with us. As such, any negative media, allegations or litigation against us, irrespective of the final outcome, could potentially harm our professional reputation and damage our business. We are also subject to misappropriation of one of the names or trademarks we own by third parties that do not have the right to use them so that they can trade off of the goodwill we have built up in our intellectual property, and our efforts to police usage of our intellectual property may not be successful in all situations.. TECHNOLOGY AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; MANAGEMENT OF DATA.. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to process transactions, gather and disseminate information and manage various types of client and other data across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. If any of our financial, accounting, human resources, or other data processing, e-mail, client accounting, funds processing, or electronic information management systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, loss of client data, loss of employee data, regulatory intervention, breach of confidentiality or other contract provisions, or reputational damage. These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including disruptions of electrical or communications services, disruptions caused by natural disasters, political instability, terrorist attacks, sabotage, computer viruses, or problems with the Internet, deliberate attempts to disrupt our computer systems through \"hacking,\" \"phishing,\" or other forms of cyber-attack, or our inability to occupy one or more of our office buildings. As we outsource significant portions of our information technology functions to third-party providers, we bear the risk of having somewhat less direct control over the manner and quality of performance than we would if done by our own employees. An example of this is the increasing use of cloud computing, whereby we outsource to third parties the maintenance of increasing amounts of our business records, including electronically maintained documents and emails, rather than keeping them on our own servers.. We are exposed to the risk of cyber-attacks in the normal course of business. In general, cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. We have observed an increased level of attention focused on cyber-attacks that include gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. During the last few years, some major corporations and other entities have reported that they had experienced broad-based theft of customer and internal data, with material financial and reputational consequences. To the extent that our technology systems interact with those of our clients (including by way of the \"internet of things\"), they may face similar potential problems and losses as the result of cyber-attacks through our systems that then impact their systems. Certain high-profile cyber-attacks at other firms have come through the systems of suppliers.. 41. Table of Contents. We have experienced various types of cyber-attack incidents, which to-date have been contained and have not been material to the organization as a whole. As the result of such incidents, we have continued to implement new governance, technical protections, and other procedures. We may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences if we fall victim to other successful cyber-attacks. Such negative consequences could include: remediation costs that may include liability for stolen money and other assets or information and repairing system damage that may have been caused; increased cyber-security protection costs that may include organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third-party experts and consultants; lost revenues resulting from unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract clients following an attack; litigation; and reputational damage adversely affecting client or investor confidence.. We are increasingly recognizing both the challenges and opportunities involved in mining the data in our systems so that we \"know what we know\" and can use that knowledge for the benefit of our clients and our organization in the most sophisticated possible ways.. The development of new software systems used to operate one or more aspects of our business is complicated, particularly on a customized basis or in order to coordinate or consolidate financial, human resources or other types of infrastructure data reporting, client accounting, or funds processing. Additionally, the effort may result in costs that we cannot recoup in the event of the failure to complete a planned software development. A new software system that has defects may cause reputational issues and client or employee dissatisfaction and/or damages, with our incurring liabilities and/or experiencing lost business as possible results. The acquisition or development of software systems is often dependent to one degree or another on the quality, ability and/or financial stability of one or more third-party vendors, over which we may not have control beyond the rights we negotiate in our contracts.. Privacy regulations vary by jurisdiction (or across a region such as the European Union) and may restrict our ability to share or collect data on a global basis, and this may limit the utility of otherwise available technology. When we transfer data between countries and continents for the purpose of managing and reporting on our global business, both internally within JLL or LaSalle systems and externally through third-party providers, we are exposed to the risk that our systems and operations may not meet all of the data privacy and protection laws of the countries from which the data originates. Furthermore, third-party providers who previously relied on the EU-U.S. Safe Harbor framework have now had to find alternative methods to meet EU standards for data transfers in the wake of the European Commission's invalidation of Safe Harbor in late 2015. Although we try to stay abreast of data privacy laws worldwide and keep track of our data flows in order to assess where and what compliance requirements apply, the rapid development and changes in systems and technology, along with corresponding changes in laws and regulations, make this a difficult challenge. As one example, effective, May 25, 2018, the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) will be officially passed and the GDPR will replace the UK's Data Protection Act 1998 (DPA). The GDPR has a greater territorial reach than existing laws and so will apply to many of our contracts and agreement around the world. We will be forced to update all our agreements, which may take significant time and cost.. 42. Table of Contents. CONCENTRATIONS OF BUSINESS WITH CORPORATE AND INVESTOR CLIENTS CAUSES INCREASED CREDIT RISK AND GREATER IMPACT FROM THE LOSS OF CERTAIN CLIENTS; INCREASED RISKS FROM HIGHER LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY IN CONTRACTS.. While our client base remains highly diversified across industries and geographies, we value the expansion of business relationships with individual corporate clients and institutional investors because of the increased efficiency and economics (both to our clients and our Company) that can result from developing repeat business from the same client and from performing an increasingly broad range of services for the same client. Having increasingly large and concentrated clients also can lead to greater or more concentrated risks of loss if, among other possibilities, such a client (i) experiences its own financial problems, which can lead to larger individual credit risks; (ii) becomes bankrupt or insolvent, which can lead to our failure to be paid for services we have previously provided or funds we have previously advanced; (iii) decides to reduce its operations or its real estate facilities; (iv) makes a change in its real estate strategy, such as no longer outsourcing its real estate operations; (v) decides to change its providers of real estate services; or (vi) merges with another corporation or otherwise undergoes a change of control, which may result in new management taking over with a different real estate philosophy or in different relationships with other real estate providers. In the case of LaSalle, concentration of investor clients can lead to fewer sources of investment capital, which can negatively affect assets under management in case a higher-volume client withdraws its funds or does not re-invest them. This is also the case within LaSalle's securities business and for Jones Lang LaSalle Income Property Trust, Inc., which are both dependent on the continued ability and willingness of certain brokerage firms to attract investment funds from their clients.. Additionally, competitive conditions, particularly in connection with increasingly large clients may require us to compromise on certain contract terms with respect to the payment of fees, the extent of risk transfer, acting as principal rather than agent in connection with supplier relationships, liability limitations, credit terms, and other contractual terms, or in connection with disputes or potential litigation. Where competitive pressures result in higher levels of potential liability under our contracts, the cost of operational errors and other activities for which we have indemnified our clients will be greater and may not be fully insured.. The global economic downturn provided an example of how risks to our organization increased as the result of the significant financial distress (which in some cases led to bankruptcy or insolvency) it placed on many organizations, including some that are clients of ours. Some of our largest clients include firms in the financial services industry, such as commercial banks, investment banks, and insurance companies, and firms in the auto industry, which were significantly impacted by the global economic downturn and took a number of years to recover. More recently, economic sanctions by the United States and the European Union against Russia have impacted the Russian economy and the ability and willingness of global and foreign businesses to continue to conduct business in Russia. Political upheaval in Turkey delayed some clients from paying us amounts they otherwise acknowledge we were owed.. Where we provide services to firms in the financial services industry, including banks and investment banks, we are experiencing indirectly the increasing extent of the regulatory environment to which they are subject in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. This increases the cost of doing business with them, which we are not always able to pass on, as the result of the additional resources and processes we are required to provide as a critical supplier. This dynamic has continued more recently with the privacy and cyber-security requirements within the financial services industry. We expect that Brexit may also result in changes in the dynamics of the financial industry in Europe, which will have consequences on the uses of real estate that we cannot yet foresee.. CONTRACTUAL LIABILITIES AS PRINCIPAL AND FOR WARRANTED PRICING.. We may, on behalf of our clients, hire and supervise third-party contractors to provide construction, engineering, maintenance, and various other services for properties we are managing or developing on behalf of clients. Depending upon (i) the terms of our contracts with clients, which, for example, may place us in the position of a principal rather than an agent, or (ii) the responsibilities we assume or are legally deemed to have assumed in the course of a client engagement (whether or not memorialized in a contract), we may be subjected to, or become liable for, claims for construction defects, negligent performance of work, or other similar actions by third parties who we engage.. 43. Table of Contents. Adverse outcomes of property management disputes or litigation could negatively impact our business, operating results and/or financial condition, particularly if we have not limited in our contracts the extent of damages to which we may be liable for the consequences of our actions, or if our liabilities exceed the amounts of the commercial third-party insurance that we carry. Moreover, our clients may seek to hold us accountable for the actions of contractors because of our role as property manager even if we have technically disclaimed liability as a legal matter, in which case we may find it commercially prudent to participate in a financial settlement for purposes of preserving the client relationship.. Acting as a principal may also mean that we pay a contractor before we have been reimbursed by the client, which exposes us to additional risks of collection from the client in the event of a dispute with the client or an intervening bankruptcy or insolvency of the client. The reverse can occur as well, where a contractor we have paid files bankruptcy or commits fraud with the funds before completing a project for which we have paid it in part or in full. As part of our project management business, we may enter into agreements with clients that provide for a warranted or guaranteed cost for a project that we manage. In these situations, we are responsible for managing the various other contractors required for a project, including general contractors, in order to ensure that the cost of a project does not exceed the contract price and that the project is completed on time. In the event that one of the other contractors on the project does not or cannot perform as a result of bankruptcy or for some other reason, we may be responsible for any cost overruns as well as the consequences for late delivery. In the event that for whatever reason we have not accurately estimated our own costs of providing services under warranted or guaranteed cost contracts, we may lose money on such contracts until such time as we can legally terminate them. Also, the application of indirect taxes, such as sales taxes, goods and services taxes, and value added taxes may be less clear for these agreements, potentially impacting our margins.. During an economic downturn in a given country or region generally, we would expect to experience credit-related problems at a higher level than usual with vendors and contractors due to their increased financial instability. For example, this became a reality during the global financial crisis.. PERFORMANCE AND FIDUCIARY OBLIGATIONS UNDER CLIENT CONTRACTS; REVENUE RECOGNITION; SCOPE CREEP; RISING COST OF INSURANCE RESULTING FROM NEGLIGENCE CLAIMS; RESPONSIBILITY FOR SAFETY OF CONTRACTORS.. In certain cases we are subject to fiduciary obligations to our clients, which may result in a higher level of legal obligation compared to basic contractual obligations. These relate to, among other matters, the decisions we make on behalf of a client with respect to managing assets on its behalf or purchasing products or services from third parties or other divisions within our Company. Our services may involve handling substantial amounts of client funds in connection with managing their properties.. They may also involve complicated and high-profile transactions which involve significant amounts of money. We face legal and reputational risks in the event we do not perform, or are perceived to have not performed, under those contracts or in accordance with those obligations, or in the event we are negligent in the handling of client funds or in the way in which we have delivered our professional services. The increased potential of the fraudulent diversion of funds from a \"hacking\" or \"phishing\" attack exacerbates these risks.. We have certain business lines, such as valuations and lease administration, where the size of the transactions we handle is much greater than the fees we generate from them. As a result, the consequences of errors that lead to damages can be disproportionately large in the event our contractual protections or our insurance coverage are inadequate to protect us fully.. The precautions we take to prevent these types of occurrences, which represent a significant commitment of corporate resources, may nevertheless be ineffective in certain cases. Unexpected costs or delays could make our client contracts or engagements less profitable than anticipated. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could have an adverse effect on profit margins.. In the event we perform services for clients without executing sufficient contractual documentation, we may be unable to realize our full compensation potential or recognize revenue for accounting and reporting purposes, and we may not be able to effectively limit our liability in the event of client disputes. If we perform services for clients that are beyond, or different from, what were originally contemplated in the governing contracts (known as \"scope creep\"), we may not be fully reimbursed for the services provided, or our potential liability in the case of a negligence claim may not have been as limited as it normally would have been or may be unclear.. 44. Table of Contents. If we make a large insurance claim on our professional indemnity policy due to a situation involving our negligence, we would expect subsequent premiums to increase materially, the size of deductibles we are required to retain could increase substantially, and the availability of future coverage could be negatively impacted.. Some current and prospective clients, particularly those in heavy industries and commodities, have more recently begun to seek data about the safety records of contractors we hire to do work on construction-related projects (such as electricians) and to impute their results to ours in evaluating our overall approach to safety. Historically, although we have always encouraged high levels of workplace safety by the contractors we have hired, we have not mandated particular protocols or gathered global data on safety incidents on projects being performed by contractors. In light of the more recent client requests, we have evaluated our approach to safety requirements at contractors and have made significant progress during 2017 to gather and report data and otherwise put new policies in place. To the extent that our approach to contractor safety does not satisfy certain clients, we risk losing their business.. ABILITY TO CONTINUE TO MAINTAIN SATISFACTORY INTERNAL FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.. If we are not able to continue to successfully operate under the requirements of Section 404 of the United States Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or if there is a failure of one or more controls over financial reporting due to fraud, improper execution or the failure of such controls to adjust adequately as our business evolves, then our reputation, financial results and the market price of our stock could suffer. Our accounting can be complex and requires that management make judgments with respect to revenue recognition and other aspects of our business. While we believe that we have adequate internal financial reporting control procedures over financial reporting in place, we may be exposed to potential risks from this legislation, which requires companies to evaluate the effectiveness of their internal controls and such internal control over financial reporting is subject to audit by their independent registered public accounting firm on an annual basis. We have evaluated our internal control over financial reporting as required for purposes of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to receive an unqualified opinion in future years, particularly since standards continue to evolve and are not necessarily being applied consistently from one independent registered public accounting firm to another. If we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future that we cannot remediate in a timely fashion, we may be unable to receive an unqualified opinion at some time in the future from our independent registered public accounting firm with respect to our internal control over financial reporting.. CORPORATE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.. All providers of professional services to clients, including our Company, must manage potential conflicts of interest. This occurs principally where the primary duty of loyalty we owe to one client may potentially be weakened or compromised by a relationship we also maintain with another client or third party. Corporate conflicts of interest arise in the context of the services we provide as a company to our different clients. Personal conflicts of interest on the part of our employees are separately considered as issues within the context of our Code of Business Ethics. The failure or inability of the Company to identify, disclose and resolve potential conflicts of interest in a significant situation could have a material adverse effect.. An example of a potential conflict of interest situation is that in the ordinary course of its business, LaSalle hires property managers for the investment properties it holds on behalf of clients. In that case, LaSalle may hire JLL to provide such services or it may hire a firm that is a competitor of JLL. In the event it retains JLL, it may appear to have a conflict of interest with respect to the selection. As a fiduciary with respect to its client funds, LaSalle resolves such potential conflicts by acting independently of JLL and following certain internal procedures designed to select the service provider that can best represent the interests of the investment management client or fund.. Another example is that in certain countries, based upon applicable regulations and local market dynamics, we have established joint ventures or other arrangements with insurance brokers through which insurance coverage is offered to clients, tenants in buildings we manage, and vendors to those buildings. Although we fully disclose our arrangements and do not require anyone to use the insurance services, JLL has a financial interest in the placement of insurance with such third parties and therefore we may be deemed to have certain conflicts of interest.. 45. Table of Contents. There are occasions when one JLL team represents the landlord of a building in leasing its space and a separate JLL team represents a tenant that is considering, or selects, space in that building. In those situations, we fully disclose our dual roles to both clients, obtain their informed consent to continue and put \"ethical wall\" and other protections in place (such as ring-fenced compensation protocols) so that each client benefits from the zealous representation by its JLL team.. After reductions in the market values of the underlying properties, firms engaged in the business of providing valuations are inherently subject to a higher risk of claims with respect to conflicts of interest based on the circumstances of valuations they previously issued. Regardless of the ultimate merits of these claims, the allegations themselves can cause reputational damage and can be expensive to defend in terms of counsel fees and otherwise.. CLIENT AND VENDOR DUE DILIGENCE.. There are circumstances where the conduct or identity of our clients could cause us reputational damage or financial harm or could lead to our non-compliance with certain laws. An example would be the attempt by a client to \"launder\" funds through its relationship with us, namely to disguise the illegal source of funds that are put into otherwise legitimate real estate investments. Additional examples are (i) our inadvertently doing business with a client that has been listed on one of the \"prohibited persons\" lists now issued by many governments around the world and (ii) our inadvertently doing business with a private client or governmental entity within a country that is prohibited under applicable regulations such as those published in the United States by the Office of Foreign Asset Control (\"OFAC\"). We may also from time to time legally invest the sovereign wealth funds of a government entity client which is subsequently deemed to be inappropriate either from a reputational or legal standpoint.. Similar problems can arise with respect to the vendors or suppliers we hire to provide services or products to us or for our clients. In the normal course of business, we spend significant amounts in order to purchase goods and services for the properties we manage on behalf of clients. A potential problem would be an intermediary that makes illegal payments on our behalf or on behalf of a client, even where contrary to our stated policies and to our specific agreement with such intermediary, under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or the U.K. Bribery Act.. Our efforts to evaluate clients, vendors and government entities before doing business with them to avoid conducting business with a prohibited party, or within a prohibited country, and to avoid attempts to launder money, make bribery payments or otherwise to exploit their relationship with us may not be successful in all situations since compliance for a business such as ours is very complex and also since we take a risk-based approach to the procedures we have employed. The ability to conduct diligence is inherently diminished in less developed countries with lower levels of transparency and fewer public records.. Additionally, it is not always possible to accurately determine the ultimate owners or control persons within our clients' organizations or other entities with which we do business, particularly if they are actively attempting to hide such information from regulatory authorities. We may therefore unknowingly be doing business with entities that are otherwise involved in illegal activities that do not involve us or that are ultimately controlled by persons with whom engaging in business has been prohibited by applicable regulatory authorities.. DIFFICULTIES AND COSTS OF STAFFING AND MANAGING INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS.. The coordination and management of international operations pose additional costs and difficulties. We must manage operations that are in many time zones and that involve people with language and cultural differences. Our success depends on finding and retaining people capable of dealing with these challenges effectively, who will represent the Company with the highest levels of integrity, and who will communicate and cooperate well with colleagues and clients across multiple geographies. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, or to successfully plan for succession of employees holding key management positions, our growth may not be sustainable and our business and operating results could suffer. These risks increase as we continue to grow as an organization and increase the number of staff, which has expanded significantly over the past decade.. 46. Table of Contents. Among the challenges we face in retaining our people is maintaining a compensation system that rewards them consistent with local market practices and with our profitability. This can be especially difficult where competitors may be aggressively attempting to hire our best people at rates of compensation that are well above the current market level. Another continuing challenge we have is to maintain compensation systems that align financial incentives with our strategic goals as an organization and the business and ethics behaviors we want to drive among our people, while at the same time not creating incentives to engage in overly risky business pursuits or behaviors. Since compensation is our biggest expense, how we manage it can significantly affect our financial results.. We have committed resources to effectively coordinate our business activities around the world to meet our clients' needs, whether they are local, regional, or global. We also consistently attempt to enhance the establishment, organization, and communication of corporate policies, particularly where we determine that the nature of our business poses the greatest risk of noncompliance. The failure of our people to carry out their responsibilities in accordance with our client contracts, our corporate and operating policies, or our standard operating procedures, or their negligence in doing so, could result in liability to clients or other third parties, which could have a material adverse effect. This is true not only with respect to individuals we employ directly, but also individuals who work for third-party vendors whom we manage on behalf of clients, especially where we are acting in a principal capacity.. We believe these risks may be higher for our company than for others given that the nature of our business requires our people to be spread across numerous corporate offices and client facilities globally, which makes communications and consistency of standards more challenging. Additionally, the nature of our global outsourcing business means that we regularly must on-board significant numbers of new staff at one time as part of the transition into our company of new global accounts, which again makes communications of our policies and driving performance consistency particularly challenging.. Employees we hire may be subject to restrictions under employment agreements with previous employers that can restrict their activities, and therefore their contributions, for a period of time after they join us. For example, they may be prohibited from soliciting business from certain clients, or from soliciting other individuals to join us as employees.. In the event that we would have to restructure an organization when faced with a downturn in economic conditions or activity, we would need to take into account the employment laws of the countries in which actions would be contemplated. In some cases, a restructure could result in significant costs, time delays in implementing headcount adjustments and, potentially, litigation regarding allegedly improper employment practices.. Labor costs are rising in emerging economies and expected to increase further. Corporate payrolls are projected to increase as greater competition for labor and social pressure to raise salaries in line with productivity growth cause even greater wage convergence. It is becoming increasingly challenging to predict regional and national labor policies and regulations are becoming increasingly hard to predict. The potential indirect implications of these changes are difficult to assess. For example, rising employment costs for clients could bring about an increase in outsourcing that could benefit our business.. Similarly, changes in immigration regulations are becoming increasingly hard to predict, most recently in the United States following the 2016 presidential election where the new administration has committed to revisit certain immigration policies, and also as the result of the Brexit vote in the United Kingdom. This may impact JLL's ability to not only run day-to-day operations with key resources traveling to and from the United States and the United Kingdom, but also in the longer term, its ability to attract and retain some of its key talent working in or in connection with either of those countries.. EMPLOYEE, VENDOR AND THIRD-PARTY MISCONDUCT.. Like any business, we run the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. In a company such as ours with nearly 82,000 employees, it is not possible to successfully deter all employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee misconduct, including fraud and involvement in incoming or outgoing bribery situations, can cause significant financial or reputational harm to any business, from which full recovery cannot be assured. We also may not have insurance that covers any losses in full or that covers losses from particular criminal acts.. 47. Table of Contents. Because we often hire third-party vendors and suppliers to perform services for our own account or for clients, we are also subject to the consequences of fraud, bribery, or misconduct by employees of our vendors, which also can result in significant financial or reputational harm (even if we have been adequately protected from a legal standpoint). We have instituted a Vendor Code of Conduct, which is published in multiple languages on our public website, and which is intended to communicate to our vendors the standards of conduct we expect them to uphold. Our contracts with vendors also generally impose a contractual obligation to comply with that Vendor Code. In addition, we are investing in technology to help us better screen vendors, with the aim of gaining a deeper understanding of the risks posed to our business by potential and existing vendors.. Anecdotally, the risk that the Company will be the victim of fraud, both from employees and third parties, is generally thought to increase during times of broad economic stress. An example of a third-party fraud would be attempts to draw on bank accounts by way of forged checks or by corporate identity theft, increasingly including cyber-attacks by way of \"hacking\" or \"phishing\" methods. We have increasingly experienced both types of attempts in recent years and have realized losses from some of them, although none has caused us material financial loss.. SCRUTINY OF EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION PROGRAMS; AND INFLUENCE OF SHAREHOLDER ADVOCACY GROUPS.. In recent years, there has been increasing scrutiny of the executive compensation practices of all public companies in the United States. Shareholders have been given increasing rights to vote on the acceptability of pay practices and the issuance of equity compensation. Independent shareholder advocacy groups have also had increasing influence on the decisions of institutional investors on how to vote on executive compensation matters. In connection with the 2017 Annual Meeting of the Company, we received public criticism of our executive pay levels and compensation policies from one of our larger shareholders. Since we have always greatly valued the input and feedback of our shareholders, especially as it relates to corporate governance, we are in the process of revisiting our executive compensation program based in part on feedback we have received from our shareholders. In the event that these emerging circumstances result in changes to our pay practices or our ability to issue equity compensation to executives or otherwise to deduct executive compensation, we may have difficulty retaining our executives or we could experience additional tax costs with respect to our compensation programs.. Legal and Compliance Risk Factors. Legal and compliance risk relates to risks arising from the government and regulatory environment and action; and legal proceedings and compliance with integrity policies and procedures. Government and regulatory risk includes the risk that the government or regulatory actions will impose additional cost on us or cause us to have to change our business models or practices.. BURDEN OF COMPLYING WITH MULTIPLE AND POTENTIALLY CONFLICTING LAWS AND REGULATIONS AND DEALING WITH CHANGES IN LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS.. We face a broad range of legal and regulatory environments in the countries in which we do business. Coordinating our activities to deal with these requirements presents significant challenges. For example, in the United Kingdom, the Financial Conduct Authority (\"FCA\") regulates the conduct of investment businesses (often by implementing regulation imposed on it by the European Union), and the Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors (\"RICS\") regulates the profession of Chartered Surveyors, which is the professional qualification required for certain services we provide in the United Kingdom, in each case through upholding standards of competence and conduct. As another example, activities associated with raising capital, offering investment funds and investment sales are regulated in the United States by the SEC and in other countries by similar securities regulatory authorities.. 48. Table of Contents. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to various corporate governance and other requirements established by statute, pursuant to SEC regulations and under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. The Sarbanes-Oxley and Dodd-Frank legislative initiatives in the United States have added significant requirements to various aspects of our governance. Additionally, changes in legal and regulatory requirements can impact our ability to engage in business in certain jurisdictions or increase the cost of doing so. The legal requirements of U.S. statutes may also conflict with local legal requirements in a particular country, as, for example, when anonymous hotlines required under U.S. law were construed to conflict in part with French privacy laws. Avoiding regulatory pitfalls as a result of conflicting laws will continue to be a key focus as non-U.S. statutory law and court decisions create more ambiguity. One example of this is the 2015 European Court of Justice ruling in Shrems v. Data Protection Authority in which the court nullified the 15 year-old safe harbor agreement governing how U.S. companies handle their European customers' personal information. The jurisdictional reach of laws may be unclear as well, as when laws in one country purport to regulate the behavior of affiliated corporations within our group that are operating in other countries. There is some uncertainty, for example, in the jurisdictional reach of the U.K. Bribery Act, and the standards for illegal activity in that Act are in some ways higher than those established under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.. Identifying the regulations with which we must comply, and then complying with them is complex. We may not be successful in complying with regulations in all situations, as a result of which we could be subject to regulatory actions and fines for non-compliance. The global economic crisis resulted in an unusual level of related government and legislative activities, including for example the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which we expect will continue into the future and which exacerbates these risks. We are also seeing increasing levels of labor regulation in emerging markets, such as China, which affect our property management business.. The Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 added Section 13(r) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (\"Section 13(r)\"). Section 13(r) requires disclosure where we or any of our affiliates have knowingly engaged, among other things, in certain transactions involving Iran, the Government of Iran, or persons or entities designated under certain executive orders. We must also file a notice with the SEC if any disclosable activities under Section 13(r) have been included in an annual or quarterly report. Section 13(r) applies to all annual and quarterly reports required to be made after February 6, 2013, and applies to all contracts, including those in existence on or before that date.. U.S. laws and regulations govern the provision of products and services to, and other trade-related activities involving, certain targeted countries and parties. These measures include U.S. economic sanctions targeting Iran to which the Company is subject. As a result, we have had longstanding policies and procedures to restrict or prohibit sales of our services into countries that are subject to embargoes and sanctions or to countries designated as state sponsors of terrorism, such as Iran. In conjunction with such policies, we have also implemented certain procedures to evaluate whether existing or potential clients appear on the \"Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List\" (\"SDN List\") maintained by OFAC.. Changes in governments or majority political parties may result in significant changes in enforcement priorities with respect to employment, health and safety, tax, securities disclosure and other regulations, which in turn could negatively affect our business.. CIVIL AND REGULATORY CLAIMS; LITIGATING DISPUTES IN DIFFERENT JURISDICTIONS.. Substantial civil legal liability or a significant regulatory action against our Company could have a material adverse financial effect or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. Many legal systems, including in the United States, have fairly significant barriers against recovering legal fees from plaintiffs that file cases we consider frivolous, so the costs to us of defending such cases can be substantial even if we prevail.. While we maintain commercial insurance in an amount we believe is appropriate, we also maintain a significant level of self-insurance for the liabilities we may incur. Although we place our commercial insurance with only highly-rated firms, the value of otherwise valid claims we hold under insurance policies may become uncollectible due to the insolvency of the applicable insurance company.. Additionally, the claims we have can be complex and insurance companies can prove difficult or bureaucratic in resolving them, which may result in payments to us being delayed or reduced or that we must litigate in order to enforce an insurance policy claim.. 49. Table of Contents. Any disputes we have with third parties, or any government regulatory matters, generally must be adjudicated within the jurisdiction in which the dispute arose. Therefore, our ability to resolve such disputes successfully depends on the local laws that apply and the operation of the local judicial system. The timeliness, quality, transparency, integrity and sophistication of judicial systems vary widely from one jurisdiction to the next. Our geographic diversity therefore may expose us to disputes in certain jurisdictions that could be challenging to resolve efficiently and/or effectively, particularly as there appears to be an increasing tendency toward litigation in emerging markets, where the rule of law is less reliable, legal systems are less mature and transparent, and the potential for judicial corruption remains a practical reality. It also may be more difficult to collect receivables from clients who do not pay their bills in certain jurisdictions, since resorting to the judicial system in certain countries may not be an effective alternative given the delays and costs involved.. LICENSING AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS.. The brokerage of real estate sales and leasing transactions, multifamily real estate lending, servicing and asset management, property management, construction, mobile engineering, conducting valuations, trading in securities for clients, and the operation of the investment advisory business, among other business lines, may require us to maintain licenses in various jurisdictions in which we operate and to comply with particular regulations. We believe that licensing requirements, including protectionist policies which favor local firms over foreign firms, have generally been increasing in recent years. If we fail to maintain our licenses or conduct regulated activities without a license or in contravention of applicable regulations, we may be required to pay fines or return commissions or investment capital from investors. We may also have a given license suspended or revoked, meaning that we would need to suspend or cease the business activities for which the license was required. Our acquisition activity increases these risks, because we must successfully transfer licenses of the acquired entities and their staff, as appropriate. Licensing requirements may also preclude us from engaging in certain types of transactions or change the way in which we conduct business or the cost of doing so. In addition, because the size and scope of real estate sales transactions and the number of countries in which we operate or invest have increased significantly during the past several years, both the difficulty of ensuring compliance with the numerous licensing regimes and the possible loss resulting from noncompliance have increased. To the extent we expand our service offerings further into more heavily regulated sectors, such as healthcare, environmental, pharmaceutical, scientific and medical laboratories, airports, and industrial, the regulatory framework within which we operate may get more complicated and the consequences of noncompliance more serious.. With respect to our status as an approved lender for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and as a HUD-approved mortgagee and issuer of Ginnie Mae securities (collectively the \"Agencies\"), we are required to comply with various eligibility criteria established by the Agencies, such as minimum net worth, operational liquidity, and collateral requirements. In addition, we are required to originate and service loans in accordance with the applicable program requirements and guidelines established from time to time by the Agencies. Failure to comply with any of these program requirements may result in the termination or withdrawal of our approval to sell loans to the Agencies and service their loans.. In order to fund the Agency loans we originate, we require short-term funding capacity. As of December 31, 2017, we had $850.0 million of committed loan funding available through three commercial banks. Consistent with industry practice, our existing warehouse facilities are short term, requiring annual renewal. Although we believe that our current warehouse facilities are sufficient to meet our current needs in connection with our participation in the Agency programs, in the event any of our warehouse lines are terminated or are not renewed, we may be unable to find replacement financing on favorable terms, or at all, and we might not be able to originate loans.. The regulatory environment facing the investment management industry has also grown significantly more complex in recent years. Countries are expanding the criteria requiring registration of investment advisors and funds, whether based in their country or not, and expanding the rules applicable to those that are registered, all in an effort to provide more protection to investors located within their countries. In some cases, rules from different countries are applicable to more than one of our investment advisory firms and can conflict with those of their home countries. Although we believe we have good processes, policies, and controls in place to address the new requirements, these additional registrations and increasingly complex rules increase the possibility that violations may occur.. These risks also apply separately to the real estate investment trust we launched during 2012 that is managed by LaSalle. That entity has registered the securities it is issuing with the SEC in the United States and is subject to regulation as a public company, albeit not one separately listed on a stock exchange.. 50. Table of Contents. Laws and regulations applicable to our business, both in the United States and in foreign countries, may change in ways that materially increase the costs of compliance. Particularly in emerging markets, there can be relatively less transparency around the standards and conditions under which licenses are granted, maintained, or renewed. It also may be difficult to defend against the arbitrary revocation of a license in a jurisdiction where the rule of law is less well developed.. As a licensed real estate service provider and advisor in various jurisdictions, we and our licensed employees may be subject to various due diligence, disclosure, standard-of-care, anti-money laundering, and other obligations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Failure to fulfill these obligations could subject us to litigation from parties who purchased, sold, or leased properties we brokered or managed, or who invested in our funds. We could become subject to claims by participants in real estate sales or other services claiming that we did not fulfill our obligations as a service provider or broker. This may include claims with respect to conflicts of interest where we are acting, or are perceived to be acting, for two or more clients with potentially contrary interests.. Licensing requirements may also preclude us from engaging in certain types of transactions or change the way in which we conduct business or the cost of doing so. In addition, because the size and scope of real estate sales transactions and the number of countries in which we operate or invest have increased significantly during the past several years, both the difficulty of ensuring compliance with the numerous licensing regimes and the possible loss resulting from noncompliance have increased. To the extent we expand our service offerings further into more heavily regulated sectors, such as healthcare, environmental, pharmaceutical, scientific and medical laboratories, airports, and industrial, the regulatory framework within which we operate may get more complicated and the consequences of noncompliance more serious.. POTENTIALLY ADVERSE TAX CONSEQUENCES; CHANGES IN TAX LEGISLATION AND TAX RATES.. We face a variety of risks of increased future taxation on our earnings as a corporate taxpayer in the countries in which we have operations. Moving funds between countries can produce adverse tax consequences in the countries from which and to which funds are transferred, as well as in other countries, such as the United States, in which we are potentially subject to the taxation of earnings of other countries' operations. Additionally, as our operations are global, we face challenges in effectively gaining a tax benefit for costs incurred in one country that benefit our operations in other countries.. Changes in tax legislation or tax rates may occur in one or more jurisdictions in which we operate that may materially impact the cost of operating our business. In December 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive federal tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act includes a decrease in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate, new limitations on business-related deductions and two new taxes which may cause foreign earnings to be taxable in the U.S. The Tax Act changes will generally be effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. These changes could result in significant charges and payments in future taxable years and increase our future U.S. tax expense. We are continuing to evaluate the Tax Act and its requirements, as well as its application to our business and its impact on our effective tax rate.. The implementation of new practices and processes designed to comply with, and benefit from, the Tax Act and its rules and regulations could require us to make substantial changes to our business practices and allocate additional compliance resources. These responses may increase our costs, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Additionally, the potential exists for significant legislative policy change in the taxation of multinational corporations, as has recently been the subject of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, and legislation inspired by that initiative. It is also possible that some governments will make significant changes to their tax policies as part of their responses to budgetary positions.. Further, interpretations of existing tax law in various countries may change due to the activities of tax authorities, which we believe are generally increasing the level of examination activities of major corporations, and the decisions of courts. In addition, the views of the business community and the public on acceptable tax planning activities, expressed through increased media scrutiny and the activities of non-governmental activist organizations, may influence further changes in tax law, affecting corporate taxpayers broadly.. 51. Table of Contents. We face such risks both in our own business and also in the investment funds that LaSalle operates. Adverse or unanticipated tax consequences to the funds can negatively impact fund performance, incentive fees, and the value of co-investments that we have made. We are uncertain as to the ultimate results of these potential changes or what their effects will be on our business in particular.. Finally, due to the late date of enactment of the U.S. tax legislation in December, 2017, we recorded a provisional expense amount of $141.3 million for the transition tax of newly enacted Internal Revenue Code Section 965. The items which will require further completion in the calculation of this expense provision are summarized in Note 8, Income Taxes, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part II, Item 8. Due to those complexities, we may find it necessary to provide additional tax amounts which could materially affect our effective tax rate in 2018.. NONCOMPLIANCE WITH POLICIES; COMMUNICATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT OF OUR POLICIES AND OUR CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS.. The geographic and cultural diversity in our organization makes it more challenging to communicate the importance of adherence to our global corporate policies, our Code of Business Ethics and our Vendor Code of Conduct, and to monitor and enforce compliance with their provisions on a worldwide basis, which includes local compliance with United States, United Kingdom, and other laws and regulations that apply globally in certain circumstances. These include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Patriot Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the United States, the Bribery Act in the United Kingdom, the General Data Protection Regulation in the European Union, and the Anti-Corruption Law in Brazil.. Breaches of our Code of Business Ethics, particularly by our executive management, could have a material adverse effect. Breaches of our Vendor Code of Conduct by vendors whom we retain as a principal for client engagements can also lead to significant losses to clients from financial liabilities that might result. Breaches of our corporate policies could lead to risk of improper conduct and an increase in chances of certain legal and compliance violations that could lead to monetary losses.. ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES AND REGULATIONS; CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS; AND AIR QUALITY RISKS.. The Company's operations are affected by federal, state and/or local environmental laws in the countries in which we maintain office space for our own operations and where we manage properties for clients. We may face liability with respect to environmental issues occurring at properties that we manage or occupy, or in which we invest. Various laws and regulations restrict the levels of certain substances that may be discharged into the environment by properties, or they may impose liability on current or previous real estate owners or operators for the cost of investigating, cleaning up or removing contamination caused by hazardous or toxic substances at the property. We may face costs or liabilities under these laws as a result of our role as an on-site property manager or a manager of construction projects. Our risks for such liabilities may increase as we expand our services to include more industrial and/or manufacturing facilities than has been the case in the past. In addition, we may face liability if such laws are applied to expand our limited liability with respect to our co-investments in real estate as discussed above. Within our own operations, we face additional costs from rising energy costs which make it more expensive to power our corporate offices.. Given that the Company's own operations are generally conducted within leased office building space, we do not currently anticipate that regulations restricting the emissions of greenhouse gases, or taxes that may be imposed on their release, would result in material costs or capital expenditures. However, we cannot be certain about the extent to which such regulations will develop, as there are higher levels of understanding and commitments by different governments around the world regarding the risks of climate change and how they should be mitigated. Regulations relating to climate change may affect the scope of services we provide to clients in their managed properties, but clients would typically bear any additional costs of doing so under their contracts with us. In any event, we anticipate that the burden and cost to the Company of climate change disclosure and carbon reporting will increase over time.. We are not aware of any material noncompliance with the environmental laws or regulations currently applicable to us, and we are not the subject of any material claim for liability with respect to contamination at any location. However, these laws and regulations may discourage sales and leasing activities and mortgage lending with respect to some properties, which may adversely affect both us and the commercial real estate services industry in general. Environmental contamination or other environmental liabilities may also negatively affect the value of commercial real estate assets held by entities that are managed by our investment management business, which could adversely affect the results of operations of this business segment.. 52. Table of Contents. The impact of climate change presents a significant risk. Damage to assets caused by extreme weather events linked to climate change is becoming more evident, highlighting the fragility of global infrastructure. As an example, there is a significant risk to coastal properties as sea levels rise.. We also anticipate that the potential effects of climate change will increasingly impact our own operations and those of client properties we manage, especially when they are located in coastal cities. For example, in 2017, the impact of natural disasters was significant with a series of devastating hurricanes impacting the U.S., on the Southeast and Atlantic coasts, Mexico and the Caribbean.. We anticipate that the potential effects of climate change will increasingly impact the decisions and analysis that LaSalle makes with respect to the properties it considers for acquisition on behalf of clients since climate change considerations can impact the relative desirability of locations and the cost of operating and insuring acquired properties. Future legislation that requires specific performance levels for building operations could make non-compliant buildings obsolete, which could materially affect investments in properties we have made on behalf of clients, including those in which we may have co-invested. Climate change considerations will likely also increasingly be part of the consulting work that JLL does for clients to the extent it is relevant to the decisions our clients are seeking to make.. Around the world, many countries are enacting stricter regulations to protect the environment and preserve their natural resources. Those regulations are likely to become more rigorous over time. Firms also may face several layers of national and regional regulations. In Europe, the EU's Environmental Liability Directive establishes a comprehensive liability standard, but individual EU countries may have stricter regulations. The risks may not be limited to fines and the costs of remediation. In Brazil, employees can risk jail time as well as fines in connection with pollution incidents. In April 2014, China passed the biggest changes to its environmental protection laws in 25 years, outlining plans to punish polluters more severely as leaders work to limit contaminated water, air and soil linked to economic growth.. Declining air quality in major cities, Beijing being an example, may have consequences for our business in various ways, including the need to respond to new regulations that affect the management of buildings, declines in the desire of investors or corporates to invest in or occupy properties in such cities, and our ability to retain staff in locations that may be relatively undesirable as a place to live.. THE CHARTER AND THE BYLAWS OF JONES LANG LASALLE, OR THE MARYLAND GENERAL CORPORATION LAW, COULD DELAY, DEFER OR PREVENT A CHANGE OF CONTROL.. The charter and bylaws of Jones Lang LaSalle include provisions that may discourage, delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that may be in the best interest of Jones Lang LaSalle shareholders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. The charter and bylaws provide for:. • The ability of the Board of Directors to establish one or more classes and series of capital stock including the ability to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of such capital stock without any further shareholder approval;. • A requirement that any shareholder action taken without a meeting be pursuant to unanimous written consent; and. • Certain advance notice procedures for Jones Lang LaSalle shareholders nominating candidates for election to the Jones Lang LaSalle Board of Directors.. 53. Table of Contents. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law (the \"MGCL\"), certain \"Business Combinations\" (including a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in certain circumstances, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities) between a Maryland corporation and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's shares or an affiliate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then-outstanding voting stock of the corporation (an \"Interested Shareholder\") or an affiliate of the Interested Shareholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the Interested Shareholder became an Interested Shareholder. Thereafter, any such Business Combination must be recommended by the board of directors of such corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (i) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares of the corporation and (ii) 66 2/3% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares of the corporation other than shares held by the Interested Shareholder with whom the Business Combination is to be effected, unless, among other things, the corporation's shareholders receive a minimum price (as defined in the MGCL) for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the Interested Shareholder for its shares. Pursuant to the MGCL, these provisions also do not apply to Business Combinations approved or exempted by the board of directors of the corporation prior to the time that the Interested Shareholder becomes an Interested Shareholder.. Financial Risk Factors. Financial risk relates to our ability to meet financial obligations and mitigate exposure to broad market risks, including volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; credit risk; and liquidity risk, including risk related to our credit ratings and our availability and cost of funding.. WE MAY HAVE INDEBTEDNESS WITH FIXED OR VARIABLE INTEREST RATES AND CERTAIN COVENANTS WITH WHICH WE MUST COMPLY.. As of December 31, 2017, we had the ability to borrow, from a syndicate of lenders, up to $2.75 billion on an unsecured revolving credit facility that matures in 2021. Borrowings under our Facility bear variable interest rates ranging from LIBOR plus 0.95% to 2.05%. As of December 31, 2017, we had no outstanding borrowings under the Facility and outstanding letters of credit of $9.0 million. Our average outstanding borrowings under the Facility were $888.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2017 at an effective interest rate of 2.0%. In addition to the Facility, we also have $275.0 million of unsecured long-term senior notes (the \"Notes\") that are due in 2022. The Notes bear an annual interest rate of 4.4%, subject to adjustment if a credit rating assigned to the Notes is downgraded below an investment grade rating (or subsequently upgraded).. On June 29, 2017, we issued and sold an aggregate principal amount of \200350.0 million of senior unsecured notes (\"Euro Notes\") as a private placement to certain institutional investors in an offering exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (\"Securities Act\"). The fixed-rate Euro Notes have 10-year and 12-year maturities. The proceeds, net of debt issuance costs, were $393.2 million, using June 29, 2017 exchange rates, and were used to reduce outstanding borrowings on our Facility. The Euro Notes are unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all of our existing and future unsubordinated indebtedness, including our guarantee under the Facility.. Our outstanding borrowings under the Facility fluctuate during the year primarily due to varying working capital requirements and acquisition activities. For example, payment of annual incentive compensation represents a significant cash requirement commanding increased borrowings in the first half of the year, while historically the Company's seasonal earnings pattern provides more cash flow in the second half of the year. To the extent we continue our acquisition activities in the future, the level of our indebtedness could increase materially if we use the Facility to fund such purchases.. The terms of the Facility, and to a lesser degree the Notes, contain a number of covenants that could restrict our flexibility to finance future operations or capital needs, or to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interest. The debt covenants have the effect of limiting our ability, among other things, to encumber or dispose of assets and to make significant investments.. In addition, the Facility requires that we comply with various financial covenants, including minimum leverage and cash interest coverage ratios. If we are unable to make required payments under the Facility or required by the Notes, or if we breach any of the covenants, we will be in default, which could cause acceleration of repayment of outstanding amounts as well as defaults under other existing and future debt obligations.. 54. Table of Contents. DOWNGRADES IN OUR CREDIT RATINGS COULD INCREASE OUR BORROWING COSTS OR REDUCE OUR ACCESS TO FUNDING SOURCES IN THE CREDIT AND CAPITAL MARKETS.. We are currently assigned corporate credit ratings from Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and Standard and Poor's Ratings Services based on their evaluation of our creditworthiness. All of our debt ratings remain investment grade, but there can be no assurance that we will not be downgraded or that any of our ratings will remain investment grade in the future. If our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, we could be required, among other things, to pay additional interest on our Notes. Credit rating reductions by one or more rating agencies could also adversely affect our access to funding sources, the cost and other terms of obtaining funding as well as our overall financial condition, operating results and cash flow.. VOLATILITY IN LASALLE INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE FEE REVENUE.. LaSalle's portfolio is of sufficient size to periodically generate large incentive fees and equity losses and gains that significantly influence our earnings and the changes in earnings from one year to the next. Volatility in this component of our earnings is inevitable due to the nature of this aspect of our business, and the amount of incentive fees or equity earnings or losses we may recognize in future quarters is inherently unpredictable and relates to market and other dynamics in effect at the time. For example, underlying market conditions, particular decisions regarding the acquisition and disposition of fund assets, and the specifics of client mandates will determine the timing and size of incentive fees or equity earnings or losses from one fund or investment to another.. While LaSalle has focused over the past several years on developing more predictable annuity-type revenue, incentive fees should continue to be an important part of our revenue and earnings as long as real estate markets remain healthy. However, it is likely that the volatility described above will continue, and competitive pressures may in some cases restrict our ability to negotiate incentive fees.. Where incentive fees on a given transaction or portfolio are particularly large, certain clients have attempted to renegotiate fees even though contractually obligated to pay them, and we expect this to occur from time to time in the future. Our efforts to collect our fees in these situations may lead to significant legal fees and/or significant delays in collection due to extended negotiations, arbitration or litigation. They may also result in either negotiated reductions in fees that take into account the future value of the relationship or loss of the client.. VOLATILITY IN CAPITAL MARKETS AND HOTELS FEES.. We have business lines other than LaSalle that also generate fees based on the timing, size and pricing of closed transactions, and these fees may significantly contribute to our earnings and to changes in earnings from one quarter or year to the next. Volatility in this component of our earnings is inevitable due to the nature of these businesses and the amount of the fees we will recognize in future quarters is inherently unpredictable.. LASALLE'S BANKING AND CLIENT RELATIONSHIPS.. Although not highly leveraged by general industry standards, the investment funds that LaSalle operates in the ordinary course of business borrow money from a variety of institutional lenders. The loans typically are secured by liens on specific investment properties, but are otherwise non-recourse. During the global financial crisis, the values of specific properties were in some cases less than the amount of the outstanding loan on the property, which gave the lender the right to foreclose on the property, in which case the equity invested by the fund would be without value. These situations were typically addressed on a case-by-case basis and, because we generally maintain good relationships with our lenders, we were generally successful in renegotiations to retain the management of substantially all fund properties, which provided additional time for values to recover. A similar phenomenon could occur in connection with future economic recessions or liquidity contractions.. Some clients of LaSalle that had open commitments to provide additional investments came under stress due to the financial downturn and became less able financially to honor their commitments and sought to renegotiate the terms of their commitments or the fees that they pay. These activities did not result in materially adverse consequences to LaSalle or any of its funds. Clients adversely affected due to a future downturn may react similarly.. 55. Table of Contents. Within a difficult economic environment, raising new funds takes longer and may be less successful as current and prospective clients may be less able or willing to commit new funds to real estate investments, which are inherently less liquid than many competing investments. Additionally, certain clients may decide to manage all or a portion of their real estate investments with internal resources rather than hiring outside investment managers.. CURRENCY RESTRICTIONS AND EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS.. We produce positive flows of cash in various countries and currencies that can be most effectively used to fund operations in other countries or to repay our indebtedness, which is currently primarily denominated in U.S. dollars and euros. We face restrictions in certain countries that limit or prevent the transfer of funds to other countries or the exchange of the local currency to other currencies. We also face risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates that may lead to a decline in the value of the funds produced in certain jurisdictions.. Additionally, although we operate globally, we report our results in U.S. dollars, and thus our reported results may be positively or negatively impacted by the strengthening or weakening of currencies against the U.S. dollar. As an example, the euro and the pound sterling, each a currency used in a significant portion of our operations, have fluctuated significantly in recent years. Our revenue from outside of the United States totaled 59% and 57% of our total revenue for 2017 and 2016, respectively. In addition to the potential negative impact on reported earnings, fluctuations in currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of the reported results of operations.. We are authorized to use currency-hedging instruments, including foreign currency forward contracts, purchased currency options and borrowings in foreign currency. There can be no assurance that such hedging will be economically effective. We do not use hedging instruments for speculative purposes.. As currency forward and option contracts are generally conducted off-exchange or over-the-counter (\"OTC\"), many of the safeguards accorded to participants on organized exchanges, such as the performance guarantee of an exchange clearing house, are generally unavailable in connection with OTC transactions. In addition, there can be no guarantee that the counterparty will fulfill its obligations under the contractual agreement, especially in the event of a bankruptcy or insolvency of the counterparty, which would effectively leave us unhedged.. In 2009 and 2010, many of the most significant governments worldwide enacted economic stimulus measures of various types. In 2011 and 2012 some of these same governments, particularly within the European Union, instituted austerity measures designed to reduce sovereign indebtedness, although these have moderated subsequently. At the same time, the United States Federal Reserve has maintained very low interest rates although has most recently begun to raise them. Additionally, certain questions have arisen about the viability of the euro and there has been speculation that some countries within the Eurozone may elect, or may be forced, to revert to the currency they issued prior to the establishment of the euro. Due to these and other variables, it is inherently difficult to predict how and when these complicated factors will affect the relative values of currencies; and in any event we anticipate significant continuing volatility in currency exchange rates.. GREATER DIFFICULTY IN COLLECTING ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE IN CERTAIN COUNTRIES AND REGIONS.. We face challenges in our ability to efficiently and/or effectively collect accounts receivable in certain countries and regions. For example, various countries have underdeveloped insolvency laws, and clients often are slow to pay. In some countries, clients typically tend to delay payments, reflecting a different business culture over which we do not necessarily have any control. Less-developed countries may have very lengthy or difficult judicial processes that can make collections through the court system more problematic than they would otherwise be. Additionally, weakness in the global economy can put additional financial stress on clients and landlords, who sometimes are the parties that pay our commissions where we have placed a tenant representation client into their buildings. This in turn can negatively impact our ability to collect our receivables fully or in a timely manner. We cannot be sure that the procedures we use to identify and rectify slowly paid receivables, and to protect ourselves against the insolvencies or bankruptcies of clients, landlords and other third parties with which we do business, which may involve placing liens on properties or litigating, will be effective in all cases.. 56. Table of Contents. INCREASING FINANCIAL RISK OF COUNTERPARTIES, INCLUDING REFINANCING RISK.. The unprecedented disruptions and dynamic changes in the financial markets, and particularly insofar as they have led to major changes in the status and creditworthiness of some of the world's largest banks, investment banks and insurance companies, among others, have generally increased the counterparty risk to us from a financial standpoint, including with respect to:. • Obtaining new credit commitments from lenders;. • Refinancing credit commitments or loans that have terminated or matured according to their terms, including funds sponsored by our investment management subsidiary which use leverage in the ordinary course of their investment activities;. • Placing insurance;. • Engaging in hedging transactions; and. • Maintaining cash deposits or other investments, both our own and those we hold for the benefit of clients, which are generally much larger than the maximum amount of government-sponsored deposit insurance in effect for a particular account.. While these risks remain higher than they have been historically, we believe they have moderated as the financial markets have stabilized in recent years. During 2012, we also diversified some of the counterparty risk under the Facility by issuing the Notes, the proceeds of which were initially used to reduce the outstanding loans under the Facility. We believe counterparty financial risks still remain elevated due mainly to the potential liquidity issues within certain European financial institutions.. In addition, during 2017 we issued and sold an aggregate principal amount of \200350.0 million of Euro Notes as a private placement to certain institutional investors in an offering exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. The fixed-rate Euro Notes have 10-year and 12-year maturities. The proceeds, net of debt issuance costs, were $393.2 million, using June 29, 2017 exchange rates, and were used to reduce outstanding borrowings on our Facility. The Euro Notes are unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all of our existing and future unsubordinated indebtedness, including our guarantee under the Facility.. We generally attempt to conduct business with only the highest quality and most well-known counterparties, but there can be no assurance (i) that our efforts to evaluate their creditworthiness will be effective in all cases (particularly as the quality of credit ratings provided by the nationally recognized rating agencies has been called into question), (ii) that we will always be able to obtain the full benefit of the financial commitments made to us by lenders, insurance companies, hedging counterparties or other organizations with which we do business, or (iii) that we will always be able to refinance existing indebtedness (or commitments to provide indebtedness) which has matured by its terms, including funds sponsored by our investment management subsidiary.. Additionally, the ability of government regulatory authorities to adequately monitor and regulate banks, investment banks, securities firms and insurance companies was significantly called into question during the downturn (for example, in identifying and preventing \"pyramid schemes,\" \"bubbles\" in different asset classes and other potential systemic failures in a timely fashion), as the result of which the overall risk of unforeseeable financial loss from engaging in business with ostensibly regulated counterparties has increased.. 57"
