[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk.  You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information contained in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes.. 32. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry. We have incurred losses in the past and may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future.. We have incurred losses in most fiscal years since inception.  We incurred net losses of $37.1 million, $41.7 million and $39.2 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  As a result of ongoing losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $249.2 million at December 31, 2017.  We expect to continue to incur significant product development, clinical and regulatory, sales and marketing and other expenses.  We will need to generate significant additional revenue to achieve and maintain profitability and, even if we achieve profitability, we cannot be sure that we will remain profitable for any substantial period of time.  Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the value of our common stock.. Spine surgeons and hospital customers must continue to recognize the merits of our technologies and techniques and use of our products compared to those of our competitors.. While spine surgeons continue to play a significant role in determining the course of treatment and, ultimately, the type of product that will be used to treat a patient, hospitals are becoming increasingly involved in the evaluation of products and product purchasing decisions.  In order for us to market and sell our products, we must continue to successfully demonstrate to spine surgeons and hospitals the merits of our technologies and techniques compared to those of our competitors for use in treating patients with spinal pathologies.  Acceptance of our products depends on educating spine surgeons and hospitals as to the distinctive characteristics, perceived benefits, safety, ease of use and cost-effectiveness of our products as compared to our competitors' products, and on educating spine surgeons in the proper application of our products.  If we are not successful in convincing spine surgeons and hospitals of the merits of our products or educating them on the use of our products, they may not use our products and we may be unable to increase our sales, sustain our growth or achieve profitability.. Furthermore, we believe many spine surgeons may be hesitant to adopt certain products unless they determine, based on experience, clinical data and published peer-reviewed journal articles, that our complex spine products, MIS technologies and techniques and degenerative products provide benefits or are an attractive alternative to existing treatments of spine disorders.  Spine surgeons, and in certain instances, hospitals, may be hesitant to change their medical treatment practices for the following reasons, among others:. • lack of experience with our technologies;. • existing relationships with competitors and sales representatives that sell competitive products;. • lack or perceived lack of evidence supporting additional patient benefits;. • perceived liability risks generally associated with the use of new products and procedures;. • less attractive availability of coverage and reimbursement within healthcare payment systems, compared to other products and techniques;. • costs associated with the purchase of new products and equipment; and. • the time commitment that may be required for training.. In addition, we believe recommendations and support of our products by influential spine surgeons are essential for market acceptance and adoption.  If we do not receive support from such surgeons or long-term data does not show the benefits of using our products, surgeons and hospitals may not use our products.  In such circumstances, we may not achieve expected sales or profitability.. Pricing pressure from our competitors, hospitals and changes in third-party coverage and reimbursement may impact our ability to sell our products at prices necessary to support our current business strategies.. Competition in the spinal surgery industry has increased as a result of new market entrants, new technologies and as more established companies have intensified competitive pricing pressure.  As a result of these competitive forces, we believe there will be increased pricing pressure in the future.  Because our products are generally purchased by hospitals that typically bill various third-party payors, changes in the purchasing behavior of such hospitals or the amount such payors are willing to reimburse our customers for procedures using our products, including as a result of healthcare reform initiatives, could create additional pricing pressure on us.  In addition to these competitive forces, we continue to see. 33. pricing pressure as hospitals introduce new pricing structures into their contracts and agreements, including fixed price formulas, capitated pricing and construct pricing intended to contain healthcare costs.  If such trends continue to drive down the prices we are able to charge for our products, our profit margins will shrink, which may adversely affect our ability to invest in and grow our business.. Our currently marketed products are, and any future products we develop and commercialize will be, subject to intense competition.  The spinal surgery industry is intensely competitive, subject to rapid technology and other changes and highly sensitive to the introduction of new products or other market activities of industry participants.  Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to develop products that reach the market in a timely manner, receive adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, and are safer, less invasive and more effective than competing products and treatments.  Because of the size of the potential market, we anticipate that companies will dedicate significant resources to developing competing products.. We are aware of several companies that compete or are developing technologies in our current and future product areas.  As a result, we expect competition to remain intense.  We believe that our principal competitors include Medtronic Public Limited Company, DePuy Synthes Inc., Stryker Corporation, Globus Medical, Inc., Zimmer Biomet Holdings, Inc. and NuVasive Inc., which together represent a significant portion of the spine market.  We also compete with smaller spine market participants such as Alphatec Holdings, Inc., Orthofix International N.V. and SeaSpine Holdings Corporation who generally have a smaller market share than the principal competitors listed above.  At any time, these and other potential market entrants may develop new devices or treatment alternatives that may render our products obsolete or uncompetitive.  In addition, they may gain a market advantage by developing and patenting competitive products or processes earlier than we can or by obtaining regulatory clearances or market registrations more rapidly than we can.  Many of our current and potential competitors have substantially greater sales and financial resources than we do.  In addition, these companies may have more established distribution networks, entrenched relationships with surgeons and greater experience in launching, marketing, distributing and selling products.. In addition, new market participants continue to enter the spinal surgery industry.  Many of these new competitors specialize in a specific product or focus on a particular market sector, making it more difficult for us to increase our overall market position.  The frequent introduction by competitors of products that are or claim to be superior to our products or that are alternatives to our existing or planned products may also create market confusion that may make it difficult to differentiate the benefits of our products over competing products.  In addition, the entry of multiple new products and competitors may lead some of our competitors to employ pricing strategies that could adversely affect the pricing of our products and pricing in the spinal surgery market generally.. Spine surgeons often make or contribute to the decisions as to whether hospitals purchase our products, and we believe that many spine surgeons are highly sensitive to technological change and to the commercial reputation of spinal product companies.  Accordingly, we believe that many spine surgeons actively seek new technologies and devote special attention to companies they perceive to have novel and innovative solutions to surgical challenges.  As a result, we believe that we must continue to develop and commercialize innovative new products or our existing customers may decrease their purchases from us and instead purchase products from companies perceived by them to be more innovative.  In order to develop innovative products, we must attract and retain talented and experienced engineers and management personnel, have productive dialogues with practicing spine surgeons and hospital purchasing administrations and have adequate capital to fund research and development efforts.  If we fail to deliver innovative products to the market, our future revenue may be reduced and our stock price may decline.. In addition, we face a particular challenge overcoming the long-standing practices by some spine surgeons of using the products of our larger, more established competitors.  Spine surgeons who have completed many successful complex surgeries using the products made by these competitors may be disinclined to try new products, particularly from a source with which they are less familiar.  If these spine surgeons do not try our products, then our revenue growth may slow or decline and our stock price may decline.. Our competitors may also develop and patent processes or products earlier than we can or obtain regulatory clearance, approval or CE Certificates of Conformity for competing products more rapidly than we can, which could impair our ability to develop and commercialize similar processes or products.  We also compete with our competitors in establishing clinical trial sites and patient enrollment in clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our products or advantageous to our business.  In addition, we compete with our competitors to engage the services of sales agencies and independent distributors, both those presently working with us and those with whom we hope to work as we expand.. 34. Many of our competitors have greater resources than we have.. Many of our current and potential competitors are major medical device companies that have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do.  Many of these current and potential competitors enjoy several competitive advantages, including:. • greater financial and human resources for product development, sales and marketing and patent litigation;. • significantly greater name recognition;. • established relationships with spine surgeons, hospitals and third-party payors;. • more expansive portfolios of intellectual property rights;. • broader product range and ability to cross-sell their products or offer rebates or bundle products to incentivize hospitals or surgeons to use their products;. • products supported by long-term clinical data;. • large and established sales and marketing and distribution networks; and. • greater experience in conducting research and development, manufacturing, clinical trials, preparing regulatory submissions and obtaining regulatory clearance, approval or CE Certificates of Conformity for products and marketing approved products.. Aggregation of hospital purchasing from collaboration and consolidation may lead to demands for price concessions or to the exclusion of some suppliers from certain market opportunities, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Because healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade, numerous initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry to aggregate purchasing power.  As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide products and services to industry participants has become more intense and may intensify.  This in turn has resulted and will likely continue to result in greater pricing pressures or the exclusion of certain suppliers from certain market opportunities as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to use their market power to consolidate purchasing decisions.  In addition, such consolidation may lead these organizations to limit their number of suppliers.  We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party coverage and reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to impact the healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers, which may exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and may adversely impact our business, results of operations or financial condition.. If hospitals and other healthcare providers are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement for procedures performed using our products, it is unlikely that our products will gain widespread acceptance.. Maintaining and growing sales of our products depends on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors, including government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, private insurance plans and managed care programs.  Hospitals and other healthcare providers that purchase products, such as the ones that we manufacture, generally rely on third-party payors to pay for all or part of the costs and fees associated with the procedures performed with these products.  The existence of adequate coverage and reimbursement for the procedures performed with our products by government and private insurance plans is central to the acceptance of our current and future products.  We may be unable to sell our products on a profitable basis if third-party payors deny coverage or reduce their current levels of payment, or if our costs increase faster than increases in reimbursement levels.  In the United States, many private payors use coverage decisions and payment amounts determined by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, which administers the Medicare program, as guidelines in setting their coverage and reimbursement policies.  Future action by CMS or other government agencies may diminish payments to physicians, outpatient centers and/or hospitals.  Those private payors that do not follow the Medicare guidelines may adopt different coverage and reimbursement policies for procedures performed with our products.  For some governmental programs, such as Medicaid, coverage and reimbursement differ from state to state, and some state Medicaid programs may not pay an adequate amount for the. 35. procedures performed with our products, if any payment is made at all.  As the portion of the U.S. population over the age of 65 and eligible for Medicare continues to grow, we may be more vulnerable to coverage and reimbursement limitations imposed by CMS.  Furthermore, the healthcare industry in the United States has experienced a trend toward cost containment as government and private insurers seek to control healthcare costs by imposing lower payment rates and negotiating reduced contract rates with service providers.  Therefore, we cannot be certain that the procedures performed with our products will be reimbursed at a cost-effective level.  Accordingly, even if our products and procedures using our products are currently covered and reimbursed by third-party payors, adverse changes in payors' coverage and reimbursement policies that affect our products would harm our ability to market and sell our products and adversely impact our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Moreover, we are unable to predict what changes will be made to the reimbursement methodologies used by third-party payors.  We cannot be certain that under current and future payment systems, in which healthcare providers may be reimbursed a set amount based on the type of procedure performed, such as those used by Medicare and in many privately managed care systems, the cost of our products will be properly reflected and incorporated into the overall cost of the procedure.. In addition, as we continue to expand into international markets, market acceptance may depend, in part, upon the availability of coverage and reimbursement within prevailing healthcare payment systems.  Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets such as in the EEA, which is currently comprised of the 28 Member States of the EU, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, vary significantly by country, and include both government-sponsored healthcare and private insurance.  We may not obtain international coverage and reimbursement approvals in a timely manner, if at all.  Our failure to receive such approvals, and any adverse changes in coverage and the reimbursement policies of foreign third-party payors, would negatively impact market acceptance of our products in such international markets.. The safety and efficacy of our products is not yet supported by long-term clinical data, which could limit sales, and our products might therefore prove to be less safe and effective than initially thought.. We have obtained 510(k) clearances to manufacture, market and sell the products we market in the United States, unless exempt from premarket review by the FDA, and the right to affix the CE mark to the products we market in the EEA.  In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that a proposed device is \"substantially equivalent\" to a legally marketed device, known as a \"predicate\" device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness, which sometimes requires the submission of clinical data.  In the EEA, as a general rule, compliance with the Essential Requirements laid down in Annex I to the Council Directive 93/42/EEC of 14 June 1993 concerning medical devices, or the Medical Devices Directive, must be based on clinical data, though such clinical data can originate from the literature if equivalence to the device to which the literature relates can be demonstrated.  For implantable devices and devices classified as Class III in the EEA, the provisions of Annex I to the Medical Devices Directive require manufacturers to conduct clinical investigations to generate the required clinical data, unless it is justifiable to rely on the existing clinical data related to similar devices.  While clinical data generated during a clinical investigation is sometimes required to support a 510(k) clearance, CE mark or product registration in other countries, we have not yet generated our own clinical data in support of our currently marketed products.  As a result, we currently lack the breadth of published long-term clinical data supporting the quality, safety and efficacy of our products that might have been generated in connection with more costly and rigorous premarket approval, or PMA, processes, and that some of our competitors who have been in business longer may have collected.. To address this issue, we are currently collecting and plan to continue collecting long-term clinical data regarding the quality, safety and effectiveness of our marketed products.  For example, we have launched voluntary post-market studies in relation to our EVEREST, MESA, and RAVINE medical devices.  The clinical data collected and generated as part of these studies will enable us to further strengthen our clinical evaluation concerning safety and performance of these important products.  We believe that this additional data will help with the marketing of our EVEREST, MESA, and RAVINE medical devices by providing our customers with additional confidence in the long-term safety and efficacy of these products.  However, as we conduct clinical trials designed to generate long-term data on our products, the data we generate may not be consistent with our existing data and may demonstrate less favorable safety or efficacy.  These results could reduce demand for our products and significantly reduce our ability to achieve expected revenue.  We do not expect to undertake such studies for all of our products and will only do so in the future where we anticipate the benefits will outweigh the costs.  In addition, in the degenerative disease market, we may determine from post-market experience that certain patient characteristics, such as age or preexisting medical conditions, may affect fusion rates, which could lead to misleading or contradictory data on the efficacy of our degenerative disease products.  For these reasons, spine surgeons may be less likely to purchase our products than competing products with longer-term clinical data.  Also, we may not choose or be able to generate the comparative data that some of our competitors have or are generating and we may be subject to greater. 36. regulatory and product liability risks.  Moreover, if future results and experience indicate that our products cause unexpected or serious complications or other unforeseen negative effects, we could be subject to mandatory product recalls or withdrawals, suspension or withdrawal of FDA or other government clearances or approvals or CE Certificates of Conformity, significant legal and regulatory liability and harm to our business reputation.. We are dependent on a limited number of third-party suppliers for most of our products and components, and the loss of any of these suppliers, or their ability to provide us with an adequate supply of quality materials, could harm our business.. We rely on third-party suppliers to supply substantially all of our products, as well as the raw materials for the limited number of products we manufacture in-house, and we may not be able to find replacements or immediately transition to alternative suppliers.  For us to be successful, our suppliers must be able to provide us with products and components in substantial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, in accordance with agreed upon specifications, at acceptable costs and on a timely basis.  Our anticipated growth could strain the ability of our suppliers to deliver an increasingly large supply of products, materials and components.  Suppliers may experience difficulties in scaling up production, including problems with production yields and quality control and assurance, especially with biomaterial products such as allograft, which is processed human tissue.  Problems in the manufacturing process, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, defective raw materials and environmental factors, could lead to launch delays, product shortages, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation.  Failure to identify and address manufacturing problems at our suppliers' facilities prior to the release of products could also result in quality or safety issues.  Furthermore, events beyond our control, such as natural disasters, fire, sabotage or business accidents could have a significant negative impact on our operations by disrupting our product development and commercialization efforts until such third-party supplier can repair its facility or put in place third-party contract manufacturers to assume this manufacturing role, which we may not be able to do on reasonable terms, if at all.  If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of high quality components to meet demand on a timely basis, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of our products to meet market demand and, as a result, could lose customers, our reputation may be harmed and our business could suffer.. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers exposes us to additional risks, including limited control over pricing, availability and delivery schedules.  If any one or more of our suppliers cease to provide us with sufficient quantities of manufactured products or raw materials in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, or cease to manufacture components of acceptable quality, we would have to seek alternative sources of supply.  If we are required to transition to new third-party suppliers for certain components of our products, the use of components or materials furnished by these alternative suppliers could require us to alter our operations.  Any such interruption or alteration could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and result of operations.  Transitioning to a new supplier could be time-consuming and expensive, may result in interruptions in our operations and product deliveries or could affect the performance specifications of our products.  In addition, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a critical component or our products, we will be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities, procedures, and operations that comply with our quality and applicable regulatory requirements, which could further impede our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner.  Because of the nature of our internal quality control requirements, regulatory requirements and the proprietary nature of the parts, we cannot quickly engage additional or replacement suppliers for many of our critical components.  Failure of any of our third-party suppliers to deliver products or raw materials at the level our business requires would limit our ability to meet our sales commitments to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business.  We may also have difficulty obtaining similar components from other suppliers that are acceptable to the FDA, the competent authorities or notified bodies of the countries of the EEA, each a Notified Body, or other foreign regulatory authorities, and the failure of our suppliers to comply with strictly enforced regulatory requirements could expose us to regulatory action including warning letters, product recalls and withdrawals, suspension or withdrawal of our regulatory clearances or CE Certificates of Conformity, termination of distribution, product seizures or civil, administrative or criminal penalties.  We could incur delays while we locate and engage qualified alternative suppliers, and we may be unable to engage alternative suppliers on favorable terms or at all.  Any such disruption or increased expenses could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition.. If we are unable to maintain and expand our network of direct sales employees, independent sales agencies and international distributors, we may not be able to generate anticipated sales.. In the United States we maintain a hybrid sales organization consisting of 117 direct sales employees and 109 independent agency partners.  Our products are marketed in 40 countries internationally, in addition to the United States.  Our international sales organization includes 41 direct sales employees, primarily located in the United Kingdom and Germany.  In addition, we directly manage 10 independent sales agencies across Italy and Canada.  We sell to 25 distributors in certain other international markets.  Our results of operations are directly dependent upon the sales and marketing efforts of not only our employees, but also our independent sales agencies and distributors.  We expect our direct sales employees, independent sales agencies and distributors to develop long-lasting relationships with the surgeons and hospitals they. 37. serve.  If our direct sales employees, independent sales agencies or distributors fail to adequately promote, market and sell our products, our sales could significantly decrease.  If revenue generated by our newly hired employees and independent sales agencies fails to increase over time in line with our expectations, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. We face significant challenges and risks in managing our geographically dispersed distribution network and retaining the individuals who make up that network.  If any of our direct sales employees, independent sales agencies or distributors were to reduce their efforts to promote our products or cease to do business with us, our sales could be adversely affected.  In such a situation, we may need to seek alternative direct sales employees, independent sales agencies or distributors or increase our reliance on our existing direct sales employees, which we may be unable to do in a timely and efficient manner, if at all.  In addition, many of our independent distributors also market and sell the products of our competitors, and those competitors may have the ability to influence the products that our independent distributors choose to market and sell, or require that members of our sales force cease doing business with us.  Our competitors may be able, by offering higher commission payments or otherwise, to convince our independent distributors to terminate their relationships with us, carry fewer of our products or reduce their sales and marketing efforts for our products.  We may not be able to rely on our sales force to distribute new products that we introduce that compete with products of our competitors that they also represent.  If a direct sales employee, independent sales agency or distributor were to depart and be retained exclusively by one of our competitors, we may be unable to prevent them from helping competitors solicit business from our existing customers, which could further adversely affect our sales.  Because of the intense competition for their services, we may be unable to recruit or retain additional qualified independent sales agencies or distributors or to hire additional direct sales employees.  We also may not be able to enter into agreements with them on favorable or commercially reasonable terms, if at all.  Further, we may terminate sales representatives or independent distributors from time to time, which could subject us to claims and lawsuits, in addition to the claims and lawsuits that may come with hiring new sales representatives or engaging independent distributors.  Asserting or defending against such claims and lawsuits could result in significant legal fees and expenses, and if we are unsuccessful, we could be liable for damages.  Failure to hire or retain qualified direct sales employees or independent sales agencies or distributors would adversely impact our ability to generate sales and expand our business.. As we launch new products and increase our marketing efforts with respect to existing products, we will need to expand the reach of our marketing and sales networks.  Our future success will depend largely on our ability to continue to hire or contract with, train, retain and motivate skilled sales managers, direct sales employees, independent sales agencies and distributors with significant technical knowledge in various areas, such as spinal care practices, spine injuries and disease and spinal health.  New hires and new independent sales agencies and distributors require training and take time to achieve full productivity.  If we fail to hire quality personnel, fail to provide adequate training or experience high turnover in our sales force, the new members of our sales force may not be as productive as is necessary to maintain or increase our sales.. The proliferation of PODs could result in increased pricing pressure on our products or harm our ability to sell our products to physicians who own or are affiliated with those distributorships.. Physician-owned distributorships, or PODs, are product distributors that are owned, directly or indirectly, by physicians.  These physicians derive a proportion of their revenue from selling or arranging for the sale of products for use in procedures they perform on their own patients at hospitals that agree to purchase from or through the POD, or that otherwise furnish ordering physicians with income that is based directly or indirectly on those orders of products.. We do not sell or distribute any of our products through PODs.  The number of PODs in the spinal surgery industry may continue to grow as economic pressures increase throughout the industry, hospitals, insurers and physicians search for ways to reduce costs and, in the case of the physicians, search for ways to increase their incomes.  PODs and the physicians who own, or partially own, them have significant market knowledge and access to the surgeons who use our products and the hospitals that purchase our products and thus the growth of PODs may reduce our ability to compete effectively for business from surgeons who own such distributorships.. A large percentage of our revenue is derived from the sale of our EVEREST, MESA and CASCADIA systems or products that incorporate these technologies, and therefore, a decline in the sales of these products could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Revenue from our EVEREST spinal systems and other products that incorporate our EVEREST technology represented approximately 29%, 25% and 21% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Revenue from our MESA spinal systems and other products that incorporate our MESA technology represented approximately 20%,  24% and 29% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.. 38. Revenue from our CASCADIA Interbody Systems and other products that incorporate our CASCADIA technology represented approximately 12% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017. Competition is intense among companies selling devices for spinal surgery, and sales of EVEREST, MESA, or CASCADIA could decline as a result of a number of factors, such as the introduction by a competitor of products which our customers prefer.  Sales of EVEREST, MESA or CASCADIA could also be disrupted by allegations of intellectual property infringement which, even if meritless, could result in temporary injunctions against sales of these products and damage to relationships with agencies, distributors and customers.  A decline in sales of EVEREST, MESA or CASCADIA for any reason could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of key members of our senior management, consultants or personnel.. We are dependent upon the continued services of key members of our senior management and a limited number of consultants and personnel.  In particular, we are highly dependent on the skills and leadership of our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Eric D.  Major, and our Chief Medical Officer, John P.  Kostuik, M.D.  The loss of either of these individuals could disrupt our operations or our strategic plans.  In addition, our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to continue to hire or contract with, and retain, the necessary qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel, for whom we compete with numerous other companies, academic institutions and organizations.  The loss of members of our management team, consultants or personnel, or our inability to attract or retain other qualified personnel or consultants or adequately prepare for future turnover of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we do not enhance our product offerings through our research and development efforts, we may be unable to effectively compete.. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis.  Our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by our competitors.  In order to increase our market share in the spinal surgery industry, we must enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing customer demands and competitive pressures and technologies.  We might not be able to successfully develop, obtain regulatory clearances, approvals, or CE Certificates of Conformity for or market new products, and our future products might not be accepted by the surgeons or the third-party payors who reimburse for many of the procedures performed with our products.  The success of any new product offering or enhancement to an existing product will depend on numerous factors, including our ability to:. • properly identify and anticipate surgeon and patient needs;. • develop and introduce new products or product enhancements in a timely manner;. • adequately protect our intellectual property and avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties;. • demonstrate the quality, safety and efficacy of new products;. • develop and/or maintain an effective distribution network; and. • obtain the necessary regulatory clearances, approvals or CE Certificates of Conformity for new products or product enhancements.. It is important that we carefully manage the introduction of a new product offering or enhancement to an existing product.  If potential spine surgeons or hospital customers delay use or purchase of a new product offering or enhancement to an existing product, it could negatively impact our sales.  Further, to the extent we have excess or obsolete inventory as we transition to a new or enhanced product, it would result in margin reducing write-offs for obsolete inventory and our results of operations might suffer.. In addition, if we do not develop and obtain regulatory clearance, approval or CE Certificate of Conformity for new products or product enhancements in time to meet market demand, or if there is insufficient demand for these products or enhancements, our results of operations will suffer.  Our research and development efforts may require a substantial investment of time and resources before we are adequately able to determine the commercial viability of a new product, technology, material or other innovation.  Such efforts may not result in the development of a viable product.  In addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce sales in excess of the costs of development and they may. 39. be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features.. We may be unable to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals.. The research, development, marketing and sales of many of our products are dependent upon our maintaining working relationships with healthcare professionals in hospitals and universities.  We rely on these professionals to assist us as researchers, marketing and product consultants, inventors, and generally in the development of new proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand our existing product lines.  If we are unable to maintain these relationships, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products, and our ability to sell new and improved products could decrease, adversely impacting our business, results of operations or financial condition.. If we fail to properly manage our anticipated growth, our business could suffer.. In order to achieve our business objectives, we need to continue to grow or alter our business strategies.  Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our operational and financial resources and systems.  Failure to manage our growth effectively could cause us to over-invest or under-invest in infrastructure and result in losses or weaknesses in our infrastructure, which could materially adversely affect our business.  Our anticipated growth will increase the demands placed on our suppliers, resulting in an increased need for us to carefully monitor for quality assurance.  Any failure by us to manage our growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals.. We may seek to grow our business through acquisitions of or investments in new or complementary businesses, products or technologies, through the licensing of products or technologies from third parties or other strategic alliances, and the failure to manage acquisitions, investments, licenses or other strategic alliances, or the failure to integrate them with our existing business, could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing customer demands, competitive pressures, technologies and market pressures.  Accordingly, from time to time we may consider opportunities to acquire, make investments in or license other technologies, products and businesses that may enhance our capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets or customer base.  Potential and completed acquisitions, strategic investments, licenses and other alliances involve numerous risks, including:. • problems effectively integrating the purchased or licensed technologies, products or business operations;. • failure to realize the expected benefits of any acquisition, license arrangement or joint development agreement;. • issues maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies;. • unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions or strategic alliances;. • diversion of management's attention from our core business;. • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers;. • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience;. • potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; and. • increased legal and accounting compliance costs.. We do not know if we will be able to identify acquisitions or strategic relationships we deem suitable, whether we will be able to successfully complete any such transactions on favorable terms or at all or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology into our business or retain any key personnel, suppliers or distributors.  Our ability to successfully grow through strategic transactions depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable target businesses, technologies or products and to obtain any necessary financing.  These efforts could be expensive and time-consuming and may disrupt our ongoing business and prevent management from focusing on our operations.  If we are unable to integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies effectively, our. 40. business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. If we are unable to educate spine surgeons on the safe and appropriate use of our products, we may be unable to achieve our expected growth.. An important part of our sales process includes the ability to educate spine surgeons on the safe and appropriate use of our products.  If we become unable to attract potential new spine surgeon customers to our training programs, or if we are unable to attract existing customers to training programs for future products, we may be unable to achieve our expected growth.  There is a learning process involved for spine surgeons to become proficient in the use of our products.  This training process may take longer than expected and may therefore affect our ability to increase sales.. Following completion of training, we rely on the educated spine surgeons to advocate the clinical benefits of our products in the broader marketplace.  Convincing spine surgeons to dedicate the time and energy necessary for adequate education is challenging, and we cannot assure you we will be successful in these efforts.  If spine surgeons are not properly educated, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products.  This may also result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes, patient injury, negative publicity or lawsuits against us, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business.. Although we believe our education methods for surgeons are conducted in compliance with applicable FDA and foreign regulatory requirements, if the FDA or any other regulatory authority determines that our training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, they could request that we modify our training or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalty.. We are required to maintain high levels of inventory, which could consume a significant amount of our resources, reduce our cash flows and lead to inventory impairment charges.. As a result of the need to maintain substantial levels of inventory, we are subject to the risk of inventory obsolescence.  Many of our products come in sets, which feature components in a variety of sizes so that the appropriate spinal implant may be selected by the surgeon based on the patient's needs.  In order to market our products effectively, we often must maintain and provide hospitals with consigned sets which typically consist of spinal implants and instruments, including products to ensure redundancy and products of different sizes.  In a typical surgery, fewer than all of the components of the set are used, and therefore certain portions of the set may become obsolete before they can be used.  In the event that a substantial portion of our inventory becomes obsolete, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows due to the resulting costs associated with the inventory impairment charges and costs required to replace such inventory.. Our total assets include substantial amounts of goodwill and intangible assets and an impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets could adversely affect our results of operations.. Goodwill and intangible assets represented approximately 37.7% of our total assets as of December 31, 2017.  We evaluate our goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value is below the carrying value.  We evaluate intangible assets for impairment when facts or circumstances suggest that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable.  Our evaluation of impairment may require us to make certain estimates and assumptions including projections of future results.  Such estimates and assumptions may not prove to be accurate in the future.  After performing our evaluation for impairment, including an analysis to determine the recoverability of intangible assets, we will record a noncash impairment loss when the carrying value of the underlying asset, asset group or reporting unit exceeds its fair value.  If these impairment losses are significant, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. If we experience significant disruptions in our IT systems, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated IT for our products and infrastructure and rely on IT systems to process, transmit and store large amounts of electronic information in our day-to-day operations, including sensitive personal information as well as proprietary and confidential information.  The efficient operation of our business depends on our IT systems.  We rely on our IT systems to effectively manage:. • sales and marketing, accounting and financial, and legal and compliance functions;. • inventory management;. • engineering and product development tasks; and. 41. • our research and development data.. Our IT systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from:. • earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural disasters;. • terrorist attacks and attacks by computer viruses or hackers;. • power losses; and. • computer systems, or Internet, telecommunications or data network failures.. We also rely on third-party vendors to supply and/or support certain aspects of our IT systems.  Third-party systems may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security of our own systems, and we are dependent upon these third parties to deploy appropriate security programs to protect their systems.  The failure of our IT systems or those we rely upon to perform as we anticipate or our failure to effectively implement new systems could disrupt our entire operation and could result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory and product shortages and a loss of important information, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we are unable to maintain reliable IT systems and prevent data breaches, we may suffer regulatory consequences in addition to business consequences.  Our worldwide operations mean that we are subject to data protection and cyber security laws and regulations in many jurisdictions, and that some of the data we process, store and transmit may be transmitted across countries.  In the U.S., HIPAA privacy and security rules require certain of our operations to protect the confidentiality of patient medical records and other health information, and the Federal Trade Commission has begun to assert authority over protection of privacy and the use of cyber security in information systems, particularly in the area of online communications and mobile healthcare applications.  In Europe, the General Data Protection Regulation requires us to manage individually identifiable information in the E.U. and, in the event of violations, may impose fines up to four percent of our global revenue.  While we are committed to meeting the expectations of applicable regulations in a cost-effective manner, there is no guarantee, however, that we will avoid enforcement actions by governmental bodies, or civil lawsuits, or class actions and those can be costly and impactful on regular business operations.. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving legal and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information, and the IT needs associated with our products and services.  Any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, corruption, or destruction of our information systems, as well as any data breaches, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Most of our operations are at a single location.  Any disruption in this facility or any ability to ship a sufficient number of our products to meet demand could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Most of our operations are currently at a single location in Leesburg, Virginia.  Our operations may be affected by man-made or natural disasters, such as a tornado or hurricane.  While we currently rely on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package, label and sterilize most of our products and components, we might also be forced to rely on third parties to inspect, warehouse or ship our products and components in the event our facilities are affected by a disaster.  Our Leesburg facility, if damaged or destroyed, could be difficult to replace and any efforts to repair or replace could require substantial lead-time.  In addition, if we obtain an FDA PMA for any of our future devices, we might be required to obtain prior FDA approval of an alternate facility, which could delay or prevent our marketing of the affected products until this supplemental approval is obtained.  Our Notified Body in the EEA or other international regulatory authorities may also need to audit our alternate facility to ensure that we continue to comply with applicable quality systems requirements.  In addition, our products are expensive to make and are valuable to hospitals and surgeons worldwide.  If a theft of our inventory occurred at our Leesburg facility or elsewhere, it could be a significant loss to us.  Although we believe we possess adequate insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.. We may not be able to strengthen our brand.. We believe that establishing and strengthening the K2M brand and the brands associated with our individual product lines is. 42. critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our products, particularly because of the rapidly developing nature of the market for our products.  Promoting and positioning our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to provide surgeons with a reliable product for successful treatment of spine diseases and disorders.  Historically, our efforts to build our brand have involved significant expense, and it is likely that our future marketing efforts will require us to incur significant additional expenses.  These brand promotion activities may not yield increased sales and, even if they do, any sales increases may not offset the expenses we incur to promote our brand.  If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, our products may not be accepted by spine surgeons, which would cause our sales to decrease and would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Fluctuations in insurance cost and availability could adversely affect our profitability or our risk management profile.. We hold a number of insurance policies, including property, general liability, employee benefits liability, automobile liability, workers' compensation, products liability, foreign liability and directors' and officers' insurance.  If the costs of maintaining adequate insurance coverage increase significantly in the future, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  Likewise, if any of our current insurance coverage should become unavailable to us or become economically impractical, we would be required to operate our business without indemnity from commercial insurance providers.  If we operate our business without insurance, we could be responsible for paying claims or judgments against us that would have otherwise been covered by insurance, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, the financial health of our insurers may deteriorate and they may not be able to respond if we should have claims reaching their policies.. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which may, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements.. As disclosed in Part II: Item 9A, \"Controls and Procedures,\" we have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting related to deficiencies within our IT general controls over the design of ineffective segregation of duties of IT personnel in their program change process and access controls affecting IT operating systems, databases and IT applications for certain of our key IT systems.   Process-level automated controls and manual controls that are dependent upon information derived from the IT systems are also determined to be ineffective.  A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.  As a result of the material weaknesses, we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and related disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2017.  We are actively engaged in a remediation plan designed to address the material weaknesses, however, we cannot guarantee that these steps have or will be sufficient to remediate them or that we will not have a material weakness in the future.  If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our financial statements may contain material misstatements or omissions and/or we could be required to restate our financial results.. Risks Related to our Legal and Regulatory Environment. Our products and operations are subject to extensive governmental regulation in the United States, and our failure to comply with applicable requirements could cause our business to suffer.. Our medical devices and technologies and our business activities are subject to a complex regime of regulations and an aggressive enforcement environment, including by the FDA, Department of Justice, Health and Human Services-Office of the Inspector General, and numerous other federal, state and foreign (non-U.S.) regulatory agencies and authorities.  Certain state governments and the federal government have enacted legislation aimed at increasing transparency of our interactions with healthcare providers.  The FDA and other U.S. and foreign governmental agencies and authorities regulate and oversee, among other things, with respect to medical devices:. • design, development and manufacturing;. • testing, labeling, content and language of instructions for use and storage;. • clinical trials;. • product safety;. 43. • marketing, sales and distribution;. • pre-market clearance and approval;. • conformity assessment procedures;. • record-keeping procedures;. • advertising and promotion;. • recalls and other field safety corrective actions;. • post-market surveillance, including reporting of deaths or serious injuries and malfunctions that, if they were to recur, could lead to death or serious injury;. • post-market studies; and. • product import and export.. The regulations to which we are subject are complex and have tended to become more stringent over time.  Regulatory changes could result in restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations, higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated sales.. Our products and operations also are subject to extensive governmental regulation in foreign jurisdictions, such as the EEA, and our failure to comply with applicable requirements could cause our business to suffer.. In the EEA, our medical devices must comply with the Essential Requirements laid down in Annex I to the Medical Devices Directive.  Compliance with these requirements is a prerequisite to be able to affix the CE mark to our medical devices, without which they cannot be marketed or sold in the EEA.  To demonstrate compliance with the Essential Requirements and obtain the right to affix the CE mark to our medical devices, we must undergo a conformity assessment procedure, which varies according to the type of medical device and its classification.  Except for low risk medical devices (Class I with no measuring function and which are not sterile), where the manufacturer can issue an EC Declaration of Conformity based on a self-assessment of the conformity of its products with the Essential Requirements, a conformity assessment procedure requires the intervention of a Notified Body, which is an organization designated by a competent authority of an EEA country to conduct conformity assessments.  Depending on the relevant conformity assessment procedure, the Notified Body would audit and examine the Technical File and the quality system for the manufacture, design and final inspection of our devices.  The Notified Body issues a CE Certificate of Conformity following successful completion of a conformity assessment procedure conducted in relation to the medical device and its manufacturer and their conformity with the Essential Requirements.  This Certificate entitles the manufacturer to affix the CE mark to its medical devices after having prepared and signed a related EC Declaration of Conformity.. As a general rule, demonstration of conformity of medical devices and their manufacturers with the Essential Requirements must be based, among other things, on the evaluation of clinical data supporting the safety and performance of the products during normal conditions of use.  Specifically, a manufacturer must demonstrate the device achieves its intended performance during normal conditions of use and that the known and foreseeable risks, and that any adverse events, are minimized and acceptable when weighed against the benefits of its intended performance, and that any claims made about the performance and safety of the device (e.g., product labeling and instructions for use) are supported by suitable evidence.  This assessment must be based on clinical data, which can be obtained from (1) clinical studies conducted on the devices being assessed, (2) scientific literature from similar devices whose equivalence with the assessed device can be demonstrated or (3) both clinical studies and scientific literature.  With respect to implantable medical devices or Class III devices, the manufacturer must conduct clinical studies to obtain the required clinical data, unless reliance on existing clinical data from equivalent devices can be justified.  The conduct of clinical studies in the EEA is governed by detailed regulatory obligations.  These may include the requirement of prior authorization by the competent authorities of the country in which the study takes place and the requirement to obtain a positive opinion from a competent Ethics Committee.  This process can be expensive and time-consuming.. Our failure to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, including those administered by the competent authorities of the EEA countries, could result in enforcement actions against us, including refusal, suspension or withdrawal of our CE Certificates of Conformity by our Notified Body, which could hurt our ability to market products in the EEA in. 44. the future.. If we fail to maintain, or are unable to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory clearances or approvals for our future products or product enhancements, our ability to commercially distribute and market these products could suffer.. Before we can commercially distribute a new medical device product or a significant modification to an existing product in the United States, we must obtain either clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act, or the FDCA, or approval of a PMA application from the FDA, unless an exemption from premarket review applies.  In the 510(k) clearance process, the FDA must determine that a proposed device is \"substantially equivalent\" to a legally marketed device, known as a \"predicate\" device, with respect to intended use, technology and safety and effectiveness, in order to clear the proposed device for marketing.  Clinical data is sometimes required to support substantial equivalence.  The PMA pathway requires an applicant to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the device based, in part, on extensive data, including, but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trial, manufacturing and labeling data.  The PMA process is typically required for devices that are deemed to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life- supporting or implantable devices.  Products that are approved through a PMA application generally need FDA approval before they can be modified.  Similarly, some modifications made to products cleared through a 510(k) may require a new 510(k).  Both the 510(k) and PMA processes can be expensive and lengthy and require the payment of significant fees, unless exempt.  The FDA's 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to 12 months, but may last longer.  The process of obtaining a PMA is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the application is submitted to the FDA until an approval is obtained.  The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time-consuming, and we may not be able to obtain these clearances or approvals on a timely basis, if at all.. Our currently commercialized products have either received premarket clearance under Section 510(k) of the FDCA or are exempt from premarket review.  If the FDA requires us to go through a lengthier, more rigorous examination for future products or modifications to existing products than we had expected, our product introductions or modifications could be delayed or canceled, which could cause our sales to decline.  Should the FDA disagree with our position that certain of our products are appropriately considered exempt from premarket review and require us to submit a 510(k) or PMA in order to market our devices, it could limit our ability to market these products.  In addition, the FDA may determine that future products will require the more costly, lengthy and uncertain PMA process.  Although we do not currently market any devices under a PMA, the FDA may demand that we obtain a PMA prior to marketing certain of our future products or modifications to existing products.  In addition, if the FDA disagrees with our determination that a product we currently market is subject to an exemption from premarket review, the FDA may require us to submit a 510(k) or PMA in order to continue marketing the product.  Further, even with respect to those future products where a PMA is not required, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain 510(k) clearance with respect to those products.. The FDA can delay, limit or deny clearance or approval of a device for many reasons, including:. • we may not be able to demonstrate to the FDA's satisfaction that our products are safe and effective for their intended users;. • the data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to support clearance or approval, where required; and. • the manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable requirements.. Obtaining clearances and approvals can be a time consuming process, and delays in obtaining required future clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our future growth.. Modifications to our products may require new 510(k) clearances, premarket approvals or new or amended CE Certificates of Conformity, and may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until clearances, approvals or the relevant CE Certificates of Conformity are obtained.. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design, or manufacture, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a PMA.  The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review such determinations.  The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary.  We have modified some of our 510(k) cleared products, and have determined based on our review of the applicable FDA. 45. guidance that in certain instances new 510(k) clearances or PMAs are not required.  If the FDA disagrees with our determination and requires us to submit new 510(k)s or PMAs for modifications to our previously cleared products for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified products until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties.. In the EEA, we must inform the Notified Body that carried out the conformity assessment of the medical devices we market or sell in the EEA of any planned substantial changes to our quality system or changes to our medical devices which could affect compliance with the Essential Requirements laid down in Annex I to the Medical Devices Directive or the devices' intended use.  The Notified Body will then assess the planned changes and verify whether they affect the products' conformity with the Medical Devices Directive.  If the assessment is favorable, the Notified Body will issue a new CE Certificate of Conformity or an addendum to the existing certificate attesting compliance with the Essential Requirements and quality system requirements laid down in the Annexes to the Medical Devices Directive.. We may fail to obtain or maintain foreign regulatory approvals to market our products in other countries.. We currently market our products internationally and intend to expand our international marketing.  International jurisdictions require separate regulatory approvals and compliance with numerous and varying regulatory requirements.  For example, we intend to seek regulatory clearance to market our primary products in Brazil, China and other key markets.  The approval procedures vary among countries and may involve requirements for additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from country to country and from that required to obtain FDA clearance or approval, or a CE Certificate of Conformity in the EEA.. In certain of our international markets, our product registrations are in the name of our distributors and if we end our relationships with such distributors, we may experience difficulties in getting such product registrations back in our name or obtaining new registrations from the appropriate regulatory authorities.. Clearance or approval by the FDA, or the CE marking of our products in the EEA, does not ensure approval or certification by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval or certification by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval or certification by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries, the EEA or by the FDA.  The foreign regulatory approval or certification process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA clearance or approval, or a CE Certificate of Conformity.  We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all.  We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals or certifications and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market.  If we fail to receive necessary approvals or certifications to commercialize our products in foreign jurisdictions on a timely basis, or at all, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Even after clearance or approval for our products is obtained, we are subject to extensive post-market regulation by the FDA.  Our failure to meet strict regulatory requirements could require us to pay fines, incur other costs or even close our facilities.. Even after we have obtained the proper regulatory clearance or approval to market a product, the FDA has the power to require us to conduct post-market studies.  These studies can be very expensive and time-consuming to conduct.  Failure to complete such studies in a timely manner could result in the revocation of clearance or approval and the recall or withdrawal of the product, which could prevent us from generating sales from that product in the United States.  The FDA has broad enforcement powers, and any regulatory enforcement actions or inquiries, or other increased scrutiny on us, could dissuade some surgeons from using our products and adversely affect our reputation and the perceived safety and efficacy of our products.. We are also required to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which covers the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage, shipping, installation and servicing of our marketed products.  The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic announced and unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities.  In addition, in the future, regulatory authorities and/or customers may require specific packaging of sterile products, which could increase our costs and the price of our products.. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, including unanticipated adverse events or adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, manufacturing problems, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements such as QSR, may result in changes to labeling, restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recalls, a requirement to repair, replace or refund the cost of any medical. 46. device we manufacture or distribute, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties which would adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects.. If our products cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, or malfunction in certain ways, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions, as well as potential product liability claims.. Under the FDA's medical device reporting, or MDR, regulations, we are required to report to the FDA any incident of which we become aware in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. If we fail to report these events to the FDA within the required timeframes, or at all, FDA could take enforcement action against us.  Repeated product malfunctions may result in a voluntary or involuntary product recall, which could divert managerial and financial resources, impair our ability to manufacture our products in a cost-effective and timely manner, and have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. We are also required to follow detailed recordkeeping requirements for all firm-initiated medical device corrections and removals, and to report such corrective and removal actions to the FDA if they are carried out in response to a risk to health and have not otherwise been reported under the MDR regulations. According to FDA guidance, if any change or group of changes to devices in the field addresses a violation of the FDCA, the change or changes would generally constitute a medical device recall and require submission of a recall report to the FDA.. All manufacturers bringing medical devices to market in the EEA are legally bound to report any incident that led or might have led to the death or serious deterioration in the state of health of a patient, user or other person, and which the manufacturer's device is suspected to have caused, to the competent authority in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred.  In such case, the manufacturer must file an initial report with the relevant competent authority, which would be followed by further evaluation or investigation of the incident and a final report indicating whether further action is required.. Any adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement action.  Adverse events involving our products have been reported to us in the past, and we cannot guarantee that they will not occur in the future.  Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business and may harm our reputation and financial results.. Adverse events involving our products have been reported to us in the past, and we cannot guarantee that they will not occur in the future.  Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business and may harm our reputation and financial results.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, manufacture and sale of medical devices for surgical procedures.. We could become the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, malfunctions, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients.  We have had, and continue to have, a small number of personal injury claims relating to our products, none of which either individually or in the aggregate have resulted in a material negative impact on our business.  Regardless of the merit or eventual outcome, personal injury claims may result in:. • decreased demand for our products;. • injury to our reputation;. • significant litigation and material defense costs;. • substantial monetary awards to or costly settlements with patients;. • product recalls;. • loss of revenue;. • increased insurance costs;. • the inability to commercialize new products or product candidates; and. • diversion of management attention from pursuit of our business strategy.. 47. We also bear the risk of express and implied warranty claims on products we supply, including equipment and component parts manufactured by third parties.  We may not be successful in claiming recovery under any warranty or indemnity provided to us by our suppliers or vendors in the event of a successful warranty claim against us by a customer or that any recovery from such vendor or supplier would be adequate.  In addition, warranty claims brought by our customers related to third-party components may arise after our ability to bring corresponding warranty claims against such suppliers expire, which could result in additional costs to us.  There is a risk that warranty claims made against us will exceed our warranty reserve and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed.. A recall of our products, either voluntarily or at the direction of the FDA, another governmental authority, or a foreign competent authority, or the discovery of serious safety issues with our products, could have a significant adverse impact on us.. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities such as the competent authorities of the EEA countries have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health.  Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found.  A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues.. The FDA requires that certain classifications of voluntary recalls be reported to the FDA within 10 working days after the recall is initiated. Companies are required to maintain certain records of recalls, even if they are not reportable to the FDA. We may initiate voluntary recalls involving our products in the future that we determine do not require notification of the FDA.  If the FDA disagrees with our determinations, they could require us to report those actions as recalls.  Any recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and could have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition, which could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers' demands.  We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits.. In the EEA we must comply with the EU Medical Device Vigilance System.  Under this system, incidents must be reported to the relevant authorities of the EEA countries, and manufacturers are required to take Field Safety Corrective Actions, or FSCAs, to reduce a risk of death or serious deterioration in the state of health associated with the use of a medical device that is already placed on the market.  An incident is defined as any malfunction or deterioration in the characteristics and/or performance of a device, as well as any inadequacy in the labeling or instructions for use or an unanticipated adverse reaction or side effect which, directly or indirectly, might lead to or might have led to the death of a patient, user or other person or to a serious deterioration in their state of health.  An FSCA may include the recall, modification, exchange, destruction or retrofitting of the device.  FSCAs must be communicated by the manufacturer or its legal representative to   its customers and/or to the end users of the device through Field Safety Notices.. Repeated product malfunctions may result in a voluntary or involuntary product recall, which could divert managerial and financial resources, impair our ability to manufacture our products in a cost-effective and timely manner and have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition.. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market.. Any product for which we obtain clearance or approval, and the manufacturing processes, reporting requirements, post- approval clinical data and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued regulatory review, oversight and periodic inspection by the FDA and other domestic and foreign regulatory bodies.  In particular, we and our third-party suppliers are required to comply with the QSR.. If we, or our manufacturers, fail to adhere to QSR requirements in the United States or other equivalent requirements or standards in the EEA, this could delay production of our products and lead to fines, difficulties in obtaining regulatory clearances and CE Certificate of Conformity, enforcement actions, including injunctive relief or consent decrees, or other consequences, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.  Moreover, governmental authorities can ban or request the recall, repair, replacement or refund of the cost of any device or product we manufacture or distribute.  Any of the foregoing actions could result in decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability claims, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. 48. Our facilities have been inspected by the FDA on prior occasions, all of which have been closed by the FDA. We have not received any warning letters associated with any of these inspections.  Our 600 Hope Parkway SE facility has not been inspected by FDA to date.. Any future failure by us or one of our suppliers to comply with applicable statutes and regulations administered by the FDA, or the failure to timely and adequately respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues, could result in any of the following enforcement actions:. • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties;. • unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions;. • customer notifications or repair, replacement, refund, recall, detention or seizure of our products;. • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production;. • refusing or delaying our requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of new products or modified products;. • withdrawing 510(k) clearances that have already been granted;. • refusal to grant export approval for our products; or. • criminal prosecution.. Any of these sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.  Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements, which could result in our failure to produce our products on a timely basis and in the required quantities, if at all.. In EEA states, compliance with harmonized standards is also recommended as this is interpreted as a presumption of conformity with the relevant Essential Requirements or the quality management system requirements laid down in the Annexes to the Medical Devices Directive.  These FDA regulations and EU standards cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of our products.  Compliance with the QSR is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the FDA.  Compliance with harmonized standards in the EEA is also subject to regular review through audits by Notified Bodies or other certification bodies.. Outside the EEA and the United States, our products and operations are also often required to comply with standards set by foreign regulatory bodies, and those standards, types of evaluation and scope of review differ among foreign regulatory bodies.  We intend to comply with the standards enforced by such foreign regulatory bodies as needed to commercialize our products.  If we fail to comply with any of these standards adequately, a foreign regulatory body may take adverse actions similar to those within the power of an EEA Notified Body or competent authority or the FDA.  Any such action may harm our reputation and business, and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may be subject to enforcement action if we engage in improper marketing or promotion of our products.. Our promotional materials and training methods must comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations, including the prohibition of the promotion of unapproved, or off-label, use.  Surgeons may use our products off-label, as the FDA does not restrict or regulate a surgeon's choice of treatment within the practice of medicine.  However, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an off-label use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine or criminal penalties.  It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an off-label use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement.  In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products could be impaired.  Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off- label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion.  In addition, the off-label use of our products may increase the risk of injury to patients and, in turn, the. 49. risk of product liability claims.  Product liability claims are expensive to defend and could divert our management's attention, result in substantial damage awards against us, and harm our reputation.. Further, the advertising and promotion of our products is subject to the Medical Devices Directive, Directive 2006/114/EC concerning misleading and comparative advertising, Directive 2005/29/EC on unfair commercial practices, and other EEA countries' legislation governing the advertising and promotion of medical devices.  In addition, we are subject to EU and national Codes of Conduct.  These laws and Codes of Conduct may limit or restrict the advertising and promotion of our products to the general public and may impose limitations on our promotional activities with healthcare professionals.. The misuse or off-label use of our products may harm our image in the marketplace or result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business.. The FDA and the competent authorities of the EEA countries do not prevent a physician from using our products off-label, as the FDA and the laws of the EEA countries generally do not restrict or regulate a physician's choice of treatment within the practice of medicine.  The use of our products for indications other than those indications for which our products have been cleared by the FDA, or CE marked in the EEA, may not effectively treat such conditions or may increase the risk of injury to patients, which could harm our reputation in the marketplace among physicians and patients.  Physicians may also misuse our products or use improper techniques if they are not adequately educated, potentially leading to injury and an increased risk of product liability.  If our products are misused or used with improper technique, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients.  Product liability claims could divert management's attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us that may not be covered by   insurance.  Any of these events could harm our business and results of operations and cause our stock price to decline.. Clinical trials necessary to support a PMA application are expensive and require the enrollment of large numbers of patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit.  Delays or failures in any future clinical trials will prevent us from commercializing any modified or new products associated with such trials and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Certain of our future products may require the approval of a PMA.  Initiating and completing clinical trials necessary to support a PMA application, and additional safety and efficacy data beyond that typically required for a 510(k) clearance, can be time consuming and expensive and the outcome uncertain.  Moreover, the results of early clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, and any product we advance into clinical trials may not have favorable results in later clinical trials.. Conducting successful clinical studies requires the enrollment of large numbers of patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit.  Patient enrollment in clinical trials and completion of patient participation and follow-up depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the attractiveness of, or the discomforts and risks associated with, the treatments received by enrolled subjects, the availability of appropriate clinical trial investigators and support staff, proximity of patients to clinical sites, patient ability to meet the eligibility and exclusion criteria for participation in the clinical trial and patient compliance.  For example, patients may be discouraged from enrolling in our clinical trials if the trial protocol requires them to undergo extensive post-treatment procedures or follow-up to assess the safety and effectiveness of our products or if they determine that the treatments received under the trial protocols are not attractive or involve unacceptable risks or discomforts.  Patients may also not participate in our clinical trials if they choose to participate in contemporaneous clinical trials of competitive products.  In addition, patients participating in clinical trials may die before completion of the trial or suffer adverse medical events unrelated to investigational products.. Sufficient and appropriate clinical protocols to demonstrate safety and efficacy are required and we may not adequately develop such protocols to support clearance and approval.  Further, the FDA may require us to submit data on a greater number of patients than we originally anticipated and/or for a longer follow-up period or change the data collection requirements or data analysis applicable to our clinical trials.  Delays in patient enrollment or failure of patients to continue to participate in a clinical trial may cause an increase in costs and delays in the approval and attempted commercialization of our products or result in the failure of the clinical trial.  In addition, despite considerable time and expense invested in our clinical trials, the FDA may not consider our data adequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy.  Such increased costs and delays or failures could adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects.. If the third parties on which we rely to conduct our clinical trials and to assist us with pre-clinical development do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our products.. 50. We do not have the ability to independently conduct pre-clinical or clinical trials for our products and, if we need to conduct such trials in the future, we would need to rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct such trials.  If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if these third parties need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our pre-clinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our products on a timely basis, if at all, and our business, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected.  Furthermore, our third-party clinical trial investigators may be delayed in conducting our clinical trials for reasons outside of their control.. The results of clinical trials may not support future product candidates or claims or may result in the discovery of adverse side effects.. In the future, we may need to conduct clinical trials to support approval of new products, and any future clinical trial activities that we undertake will be subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities both in the United States and abroad.  Clinical studies intended to support a 510(k) or PMA must be conducted in compliance with the FDA's Good Clinical Practice regulations and similar requirements in foreign jurisdictions.  Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our product candidate claims or that the FDA or foreign authorities and Notified Bodies will agree with our conclusions regarding them.  Success in pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the later trials will replicate the results of prior trials and pre-clinical studies.  The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for the proposed indicated uses, which could cause us to abandon a product candidate and may delay development of others.  Any delay or termination of our clinical trials will delay the   filing of associated product submissions and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize products requiring submission of clinical data.  It is also possible that patients enrolled in a clinical trial will experience adverse side effects that are not currently part of the product candidate's safety profile, which could cause us to delay or abandon development of such product.. Governmental regulation and limited sources and suppliers could restrict our procurement and use of allograft bone tissue.. In the United States, the procurement and transplantation of allograft bone tissue is subject to federal law pursuant to the National Organ Transplant Act, or NOTA, a criminal statute which prohibits the purchase and sale of human organs used in human transplantation, including bone and related tissue, for \"valuable consideration.\" NOTA permits reasonable payments associated with the removal, transportation, processing, preservation, quality control, implantation and storage of human bone tissue.  We provide processing fees to certain of our suppliers, which are registered tissue banks, for their services related to recovering allograft bone tissue.  If NOTA is interpreted or enforced in a manner that prevents us from making these processing fees to our tissue bank suppliers for the services they render for us, our business could be materially adversely affected.  The FDA periodically inspects tissue processors to determine compliance with these requirements.  Violations of applicable regulations noted by the FDA during facility inspections could adversely affect the continued marketing of our products.  We believe we comply with all aspects of the FDA's Current Good Tissue Practice regulations, although there can be no assurance that we will comply, or will comply on a timely basis, in the future.  The entity that provides us with allograft bone tissue is responsible for performing donor recovery, donor screening and donor testing and our compliance with those aspects of the Current Good Tissue Practice regulations that regulate those functions are dependent upon the actions of this independent entity.. Three third-party suppliers currently provide all of our needs for biomaterials products, which incorporate allograft bone tissue.  The processing of allograft bone tissue into our biomaterials products is very labor-intensive and it is therefore difficult to maintain a steady supply stream.  In addition, due to seasonal changes in mortality rates, some scarce tissues used in our biomaterials products may be, at times, in particularly short supply.  We cannot be certain that our current supply of biomaterials products from our suppliers, plus any additional sources that we identify in the future, will be sufficient to meet our needs.  Our dependence on a limited number of third-party suppliers and the challenges we may face in obtaining adequate supplies of allograft bone tissue involve several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, and quality and delivery schedules.  In addition, any supply interruption in a sole-sourced human tissue component, could materially harm our and our third-party suppliers' ability to manufacture our biomaterials products until a new source of supply, if any, could be found.  We may be unable to find a sufficient alternative supply channel in a reasonable time period or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Negative publicity concerning methods of tissue recovery and screening of donor tissue in our industry could reduce. 51. demand for our biomaterials products and impact the supply of available donor tissue.. Media reports or other negative publicity concerning both alleged improper methods of tissue recovery from donors and disease transmission from donated tissue could limit widespread acceptance of some of our biomaterials products.  Unfavorable reports of improper or illegal tissue recovery practices, both in the United States and internationally, as well as incidents of improperly processed tissue leading to the transmission of disease, may broadly affect the rate of future tissue donation and market acceptance of technologies incorporating human tissue.  In addition, such negative publicity could cause the families of potential donors to become reluctant to agree to donate tissue to for-profit tissue processors.  For example, the media has reported examples of alleged illegal harvesting of body parts from cadavers and resulting recalls conducted by certain companies selling human tissue based products affected by the alleged illegal harvesting.  These reports and others could have a negative effect on our biomaterials business.. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that can impose significant costs and expose us to potential financial liabilities.. The manufacture of certain of our products, including our biomaterials products, and the handling of materials used in the product testing process, including in our cadaveric laboratory, involve the controlled use of biological and/or hazardous materials and wastes.  Our business and facilities and those of our suppliers are subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including those governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of, and exposure to, such materials and wastes.  In addition, under some environmental laws and regulations, we could be held responsible for costs relating to any contamination at our present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites even if such contamination was not caused by us.  A failure to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations could result in severe fines or penalties.  Any such expenses or liability could have a significant negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We or our suppliers may be the subject of claims for non-compliance with FDA regulations in connection with the processing, manufacturing or distribution of our proposed allograft bone tissue or other biomaterials products.. Allegations may be made against us or against donor recovery groups or tissue banks, including those with which we have a contractual supplier relationship, claiming that the acquisition or processing of biomaterials products does not comply with applicable FDA regulations or other relevant statutes and regulations.  Allegations like these could cause regulators or other authorities to take investigative or other action against us or our suppliers, or could cause negative publicity for us or our industry generally.  These actions or any negative publicity could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the attention of our management from our business and harm our reputation.. If we or our sales representatives fail to comply with fraud and abuse laws, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, which could adversely impact our reputation and business operations.. There are numerous U.S. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws.  Our relationships with surgeons, hospitals, group purchasing organizations and our international distributors are subject to scrutiny under these laws.  Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including significant monetary penalties and, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including the Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Administration health programs.. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that a statute or prohibition has been violated.  The laws that may affect our ability to operate include:. • the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits persons from, among other things, knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid;. • the federal False Claims Act, which prohibits, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent;. • HIPAA, as amended, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and making false statements relating to healthcare matters;. • the Federal Trade Commission Act and similar laws regulating advertisement and consumer protections;. 52. • the FCPA, which prohibits corrupt payments, gifts or transfers of value to foreign officials; and. • foreign and/or U.S. state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers.. Federal and state enforcement authorities and others continue to commit significant resources toward enforcement of these laws and to investigation and prosecution of companies and individuals who are believed to be violating them. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the statutory exceptions and safe harbors available under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, it is possible that some of our business activities, including our relationship with surgeons, hospitals, group purchasing organizations and our independent sales agencies and distributors, could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. For example, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute is subject to evolving interpretations and has been applied by government enforcement officials to a number of common business arrangements in the medical device industry.  The federal government has enforced the Anti-Kickback Statute to reach large settlements with device manufacturers based on allegedly sham consultant arrangements with physicians and other arrangements that are common in our industry. The government can establish a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute without proving that a person or entity had actual knowledge of the law or specific intent to violate it. There are a number of statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution or other regulatory sanctions, however, the exceptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly. Failure to meet all of the requirements of a particular statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor does not make the conduct per se illegal under the Anti-Kickback Statute, but the legality of the arrangement will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis based on the totality of the facts and circumstances.  In addition, a claim to a federal healthcare program that includes items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal False Claims Act. In addition, settlements with the Department of Justice or other law enforcement agencies have forced healthcare companies to agree to additional compliance and reporting requirements as part of a consent decree or corporate integrity agreement.. We also engage in other activities that could be subject to scrutiny or enforcement under healthcare fraud and abuse laws.  For example, while we do not submit claims and our customers make the ultimate decision on how to submit claims, from time-to-time, we may provide reimbursement guidance to our customers.  If a government authority were to conclude that we provided improper advice to our customers and/or encouraged the submission of false claims for reimbursement, we could face action against us by government authorities.. We also have entered into certain agreements, including consulting agreements and royalty agreements, with surgeons, including some who order and use our products in procedures they perform.  While these transactions were structured to comply with all applicable laws, including state and federal anti-kickback laws, to the extent applicable, regulatory agencies may view these transactions as prohibited arrangements that must be restructured, or discontinued, or for which we could be subject to other significant penalties, including debarment.. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated.  Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, result in a material adverse effect on our reputation or financial condition, and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business.. In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation requiring disclosure of payments made to physicians, including the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, described above.  Failure to submit required information under the Physician Payment Sunshine Act may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (and up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for \"knowing failures\"), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests that are not timely, accurately and completely reported in an annual submission.  Manufacturers must submit reports for payments made in each calendar year by the 90th day of the subsequent calendar year.  Due to the difficulty in complying with the Physician Payment Sunshine Act and the use of independent sales agencies as part of our U.S. sales force, we cannot assure you that we will successfully report all transfers of value by us and our independent sales agencies, and any failure to comply could result in significant fines and penalties.. Certain U.S. states mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs, impose restrictions on device manufacturer marketing practices and tracking and/or require the reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians.  A similar trend is observed in foreign jurisdictions such as France.  French law requires companies working in the health sector to publicly disclose direct or indirect benefits granted to, and agreements entered into with, physicians and other healthcare professionals.  The shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with different compliance and/or reporting requirements in multiple jurisdictions. 53. increase the possibility that a healthcare company may violate one or more of the requirements.. Most of these laws apply to not only the actions taken by us, but also actions taken by our independent sales agencies and distributors.  We have limited knowledge and control over the business practices of our independent sales agencies and distributors, and we may face regulatory action against us as a result of their actions which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, the scope and enforcement of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change in the current environment of healthcare reform, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations.  Federal or state regulatory authorities might challenge our current or future activities under these laws.  Any such challenge could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.  Any state or federal regulatory review of us, regardless of the outcome, would be costly and time-consuming.  In addition, we cannot predict the impact of any changes in these laws, whether or not retroactive.. U.S. legislative or FDA regulatory reforms may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates and to manufacture, market and distribute our products after approval is obtained.. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the regulatory approval, manufacture and marketing of regulated products or the reimbursement thereof. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of future products. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be.. For example, in December of 2016, the 21st Century Cures Act (the \"Cures Act\") was enacted into law.  The Cures Act includes many provisions that impact the regulation of medical devices.  For example, the Cures Act includes provisions regarding, among other things:. • expediting the development and prioritizing FDA review of \"breakthrough\" technologies;. • expanding the scope of diseases/conditions eligible for a humanitarian device exemption;. • encouraging FDA to rely more on real-world evidence to demonstrate device safety and effectiveness; and. • emphasizing the least burdensome standard for device reviews.. Moreover, the policies of the Trump administration and their impact on the regulation of our products in the United States remain uncertain.  The Trump administration's policies and the forthcoming 2018 mid-term elections could result in significant legislative and regulatory reforms impacting the FDA's regulation of our products.  Any change in the laws or regulations that govern the clearance and approval processes relating to our current and future products could make it more difficult and costly to obtain clearance or approval for new products, or to produce, market and distribute existing products. Significant delays in receiving clearance or approval, or the failure to receive clearance or approval for our new products would have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business.. U.S. legislative or regulatory healthcare reforms may make it more difficult and costly for us to market and distribute our products after clearance or approval is obtained.. Recent political, economic and regulatory influences are expected to subject the healthcare industry in the United States to fundamental changes.  The sales of our products depend in part on the availability of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors such as government health programs, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and other healthcare-related organizations.  Both the federal and state governments in the United States and foreign governments continue to propose and pass new legislation and regulations designed to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare.  Such legislation and regulations may result in decreased reimbursement for medical devices and/or the procedures in which they are used, which may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce the prices charged for medical devices.  This could harm our ability to market our products and generate sales.. Significant healthcare reform was enacted in 2010 when the PPACA was signed into law. State laws also were enacted to implement the PPACA. While a primary goal of these healthcare reform efforts was to expand coverage to more. 54. individuals, it also involved increased government price controls, additional regulatory mandates and other measures designed to constrain medical costs. The PPACA significantly impacts the medical device industry. Among other things, the PPACA:. • imposes an annual excise tax of 2.3% on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the United States, which began on January 1, 2013, but was suspended during 2016 and 2017 and has been suspended again for 2018 and 2019;. • establishes a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee and identify priorities in comparative clinical effectiveness research in an effort to coordinate and develop such research; and. • implements payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted.  For example, on January 2, 2013, former President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, or the ATRA, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. Moreover, certain legislative changes to and regulatory changes under the PPACA have occurred in the 115th United States Congress and under the Trump Administration. For example, on December 22, 2017, President Trump signed a budget reconciliation act into law, which among other things, repealed the penalty for individuals who do not maintain minimum essential coverage, which was a central component of PPACA's approach to expanding coverage.  On January 9, 2018, President Trump signed the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, which, among other things, repealed the PPACA provision establishing an independent payment advisory board that would have submitted recommendations to reduce Medicare spending if projected Medicare spending exceeded a specified growth rate.. Additional legislative changes to and regulatory changes under the PPACA remain possible. We expect that other state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could reduce the number of patients with coverage or limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for our products or additional pricing pressure.. Brexit and the Regulatory Framework in the United Kingdom. On June 23, 2016, the electorate in the United Kingdom voted in favor of leaving the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit. Thereafter, on March 29, 2017, the country formally notified the EU of its intention to withdraw pursuant to Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty. The withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU will take effect either on the effective date of the withdrawal agreement or, in the absence of agreement, on March 29, 2019. The referendum has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU, including with respect to the laws and regulations that will apply as the United Kingdom determines which EU laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal.  From a regulatory perspective, the United Kingdom's withdrawal could give rise to significant complexity and risks. Since the medical devices regulatory framework in the United Kingdom is derived from the EU Medical Devices Directive, the United Kingdom's withdrawal could materially impact the continued marketing of EU medical devices in the United Kingdom and UK medical devices in the EU. Because of the continued uncertainty about the effects, implementation, or potential repeal of Brexit, we cannot quantify or predict with any certainty the likely impact of Brexit or related legislation on our business model, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, these developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets.. Our financial performance may be adversely affected by medical device tax provisions in the healthcare reform laws.. The PPACA imposes, among other things, an excise tax of 2.3% on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the United States, which began on January 1, 2013, but was suspended during 2016 and 2017 and will be suspended during 2018 and 2019.  There have been proposals to permanently repeal the device tax, but if it is is not repealed, we anticipate that primarily all of our sales of medical devices in the United States will be subject to this 2.3% excise tax.. 55. Current economic and political conditions make tax rules in any jurisdiction subject to significant change.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 was signed into law. This is the first major revision of the U.S. tax code since 1986 and its ultimate impact is uncertain.  We cannot predict the overall impact that further reform or proposals for reform may have on our business.  In addition, further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise, including as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting (\"BEPS\") project undertaken by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (\"OECD\").  The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, has issued recommendations that, in some cases, would make substantial changes to numerous long-standing tax positions and principles.  These contemplated changes, to the extent adopted by OECD members and/or other countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes.. Risks Related to our Financial Results and Future Capital Needs. We will need to generate significant revenue to become profitable.. We intend to increase our operating expenses and purchases of inventory as we expand our global distribution network to increase our geographic sales coverage, increase our marketing capabilities, conduct clinical trials and increase our general and administrative functions to support our growing operations.  We will need to generate significant revenue to achieve profitability and we might not be able to do so.  Even if we do generate significant sales, we might not be able to achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future.  If our revenue grows more slowly than we anticipate or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our financial performance will likely be adversely affected.. Our sales volumes and our results of operations may fluctuate over the course of the year.. We have experienced and continue to experience meaningful variability in our revenue and gross profit among quarters, as well as within each quarter, as a result of a number of factors, including, among other things:. • the number of products sold in the quarter;. • the unpredictability of sales of full sets of spinal implants and instruments to our international distributors;. • the demand for, and pricing of, our products and the products of our competitors;. • the timing of or failure to obtain regulatory clearances or approvals for products;. • costs, benefits and timing of new product introductions;. • increased competition;. • the availability and cost of components and materials;. • the number of selling days in the quarter;. • the inability of hospital customers to consistently provide product or procedure forecasts;. • fluctuation and foreign currency exchange rates; and. • impairment and other special charges.. In addition, our revenue may be influenced by summer vacation and winter holiday periods, as we have experienced a higher incidence of adolescent surgeries during these periods which may lead to higher sales of our products in the late spring and summer and in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year.. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future, and such funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all.. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, in combination with the borrowing availability under our senior secured credit facility and our expected cash from operations, will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements for the foreseeable future.  However, the continued expansion of our business will be expensive and we may seek additional funds from public and private stock offerings, borrowings under our existing or new credit facilities or other sources which we may not be able to maintain or obtain on acceptable or commercially reasonable terms, if at all.. 56. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including:. • market acceptance of our products;. • the revenue generated by sales of our products;. • the costs associated with expanding our sales and marketing efforts;. • the expenses we incur in manufacturing and selling our products;. • the costs of developing and commercializing new products or technologies;. • the scope, rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials;. • the cost of obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval or clearance of our products and products in development;. • the costs associated with complying with state, federal and international transparency laws;. • the cost of filing and prosecuting patent applications and defending and enforcing our patent and other intellectual property rights;. • the cost of defending, in litigation or otherwise, any claims that we infringe third-party patent or other intellectual property rights;. • the cost of enforcing or defending against non-competition claims;. • the number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions;. • the costs associated with our international expansion efforts;. • the costs associated with increased capital expenditures, including fixed asset purchases of instrument sets which we loan to hospitals to support surgeries; and. • unanticipated general and administrative expenses.. As a result of these factors, we may seek to raise additional capital to:. • maintain appropriate product inventory levels;. • fund our operations and clinical trials;. • continue our research and development;. • defend, in litigation or otherwise, any claims that we infringe third-party patents or other intellectual property rights;. • address FDA or other governmental, legal/enforcement actions and remediate underlying problems;. • commercialize our new products, if any such products receive regulatory clearance or approval for sale; and. • acquire companies and license products or intellectual property.. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise additional capital, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders.  In addition, if we raise additional capital through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our products, potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us.  If we cannot raise capital on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, execute. 57. our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures, changes in our supplier relationships, or unanticipated customer requirements.  Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our revolving credit facility contains restrictive covenants that may limit our operating flexibility.. Our revolving credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants that limit, among other things, our ability to dispose of assets, merge with other companies or consummate certain changes of control, pay dividends, incur additional indebtedness and liens, make investments, enter into transactions with affiliates, enter new businesses or prepay subordinated indebtedness.  We therefore may not be able to engage in any of the foregoing transactions unless we obtain the consent of the lenders or terminate the revolving credit facility.  There is no guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow or sales to meet the financial covenants or pay the principal and interest on such debt.  Furthermore, there is no guarantee that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to repay or refinance any such debt.. Our indebtedness and liabilities could limit the cash flow available for our operations and expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $74.1 million of outstanding indebtedness. We may also incur additional indebtedness to meet future financing needs. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences for our security holders and our business, results of operations and financial condition by, among other things:. • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional funding;. • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, which will reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes;. • limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business;. • diluting the interest of our existing stockholders as a result of issuing shares of our common stock upon conversion of our convertible senior notes; and. • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with competitors that are less leveraged than us or have better access to capital.. Our business may not generate sufficient funds, and we may otherwise be unable to maintain sufficient cash reserves, to pay amounts due under our indebtedness, and our cash needs may increase in the future.. We may be unable to raise the funds necessary to repurchase our convertible senior notes for cash following a fundamental change or on the option repurchase dates, or to pay any cash amounts due upon conversion, and our other indebtedness limits our ability to repurchase our convertible notes or pay cash upon their conversion.. Under the indenture governing our convertible senior notes that we issued in August 2016, noteholders may require us to repurchase their notes following a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture) or on each of August 15, 2021, August 15, 2026 and August 15, 2031 at a cash repurchase price generally equal to the principal amount of the convertible senior notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.  In addition, upon conversion, we must satisfy part or all of our conversion obligation in cash unless we elect to settle conversions solely in shares of our common stock.  We may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to repurchase the convertible senior notes or pay the cash amounts due upon conversion.  In addition, applicable law, regulatory authorities and the agreements governing our other indebtedness may restrict our ability to repurchase the convertible senior notes or pay the cash amounts due upon conversion.  Under our revolving credit facility, our operating subsidiaries are limited in the amount of cash that they can distribute to us.  Until the maturity of the revolving credit facility in April 2019, our operating subsidiaries will be permitted to distribute only up to $1.5 million in aggregate to permit us to make cash payments in connection with any conversions of our convertible senior notes.  If noteholders elect to convert their convertible senior notes prior to the maturity of the revolving credit facility, we may be required to elect physical settlement rather than combination settlement or cash settlement or seek a waiver or amendment from the lenders under the revolving credit facility.  Furthermore, following a fundamental change, under our revolving credit facility, our subsidiaries would not be permitted to distribute any cash to us to repurchase any convertible. 58. senior notes.  Our failure to repurchase convertible senior notes or to pay the cash amounts due upon conversion when required will constitute a default under the indenture governing the convertible senior notes.  A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our other indebtedness, which may result in that other indebtedness becoming immediately payable in full.  We may not have sufficient funds to satisfy all amounts due under the other indebtedness and the convertible senior notes.. Provisions in the indenture governing our convertible senior notes could delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover of us.. Certain provisions in the convertible senior notes and the indenture governing our convertible senior notes could make a third-party attempt to acquire us more difficult or expensive.  For example, if a takeover constitutes a fundamental change under the indenture, then noteholders will have the right to require us to repurchase their convertible senior notes for cash.  In addition, if a takeover constitutes a make whole fundamental change (as defined in the indenture), then we may be required to temporarily increase the conversion rate on our convertible senior notes.  In either case, and in other cases, our obligations under the convertible  senior notes and the indenture could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third-party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management, including in a transaction that holders of our common shares may view as favorable.. The accounting method for our convertible senior notes could adversely affect our reported financial condition and results.. The accounting method for reflecting the convertible senior notes on our balance sheet, accruing interest expense for the convertible senior notes and reflecting the underlying shares of our common stock in our reported diluted earnings per share may adversely affect our reported earnings and financial condition.. Under applicable accounting principles, the liability carrying amount of the convertible senior notes is the fair value of a similar debt instrument that does not have a conversion feature, valued using our cost of capital for straight, unconvertible debt.  At inception of the note, we reflected the difference between the net proceeds from the offering of the convertible senior notes and the initial carrying amount as a debt discount for accounting purposes, which will be amortized into interest expense over the term of the convertible senior notes.  As a result of this amortization, the interest expense that we recognize for the convertible senior notes for accounting purposes is greater than the cash interest payments we pay on the convertible senior notes, which results in lower reported net income.  The lower reported income resulting from this accounting treatment could depress the trading price of our common stock.. In addition, because we intend to settle conversions by paying the conversion value in cash up to the principal amount of the convertible senior notes being converted and any excess in shares, we are eligible to use the treasury stock method to reflect the shares underlying the convertible senior notes in our diluted earnings per share.  Under this method, if the conversion value of the convertible senior notes exceeds their principal amount for a reporting period, then we will calculate our diluted earnings per share assuming that all the convertible senior notes were converted and that we issued shares of our common stock to settle the excess.  However, if reflecting the convertible senior notes in diluted earnings per share in this manner is anti-dilutive, or if the conversion value of the convertible senior notes does not exceed their principal amount for a reporting period, then the shares underlying the convertible senior notes will not be reflected in our diluted earnings per share.  However, if accounting standards change in the future and we are not permitted to use the treasury stock method, then our diluted earnings per share may decline.. Furthermore, if any of the conditions to the convertibility of the convertible senior notes is satisfied, then we may be required under applicable accounting standards to reclassify the liability carrying value of the convertible senior notes as a current, rather than a long-term, liability.  This reclassification could be required even if no noteholders convert their convertible senior notes and could materially reduce our reported working capital.. Continuing worldwide economic instability could adversely affect our revenue, collectability of our accounts receivable, financial condition or results of operations and those of our suppliers, counterparties and consumers, which could harm our financial position.. Since fiscal year 2008, the global economy has been impacted by the sequential effects of an ongoing global financial crisis.  This global financial crisis has caused extreme disruption in the financial markets, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability.  There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in the global economy.  Our customers and suppliers may experience financial difficulties or be unable to borrow money to fund their operations, which may adversely impact their ability to purchase our products, pay for our products on a timely basis, if at all, or supply us with our products.  As with our customers and suppliers, these economic conditions make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities.  In light of the current economic state of many countries in which we do business, we continue to monitor their creditworthiness.  Failure to receive payment of all. 59. or a significant portion of these receivables could adversely affect our results of operations.. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property and Potential Litigation. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights.. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies and inventions used in, or embodied by, our products.  We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology.  However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage.. Patent Rights. As of December 31, 2017, we owned or licensed 305 issued U.S. patents and 250 issued foreign patents.  We had 109 pending U.S. patent applications and 125 pending foreign patent applications.  It is our practice to file continuation and divisional applications as warranted which may provide additional intellectual property protection if those continuation and divisional applications issue as U.S. patents.  Our patents will expire between 2018 and 2038, subject to payment of required maintenance fees, annuities and other charges.. We have applied for patent protection relating to certain existing and proposed products and processes.  While we generally apply for patents in those countries that represent major markets where we intend to make, have made, use or sell key patented products, we may not accurately predict all of the countries where patent protection will ultimately be desirable.  If we fail to timely file a patent application in any such country, we may be precluded from doing so at a later date.. Furthermore, the process of applying for patent protection itself is time consuming and expensive and we cannot assure you that any of our patent applications will issue as patents.  The rights granted to us under our patents, including prospective rights sought in our pending patent applications, may not be meaningful or provide us with any commercial advantage and they could be opposed, contested or circumvented by our competitors or be declared invalid or unenforceable in judicial or administrative proceedings.  In addition, our pending patent applications include claims to material aspects of our products and procedures that are not currently protected by issued patents.  In addition, the patents we own may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage, and competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products that provide outcomes comparable to ours without infringing on our intellectual property rights.. Moreover, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process.  In addition, periodic maintenance fees on issued patents often must be paid to the USPTO and foreign patent agencies over the lifetime of the patent.  While an unintentional lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction.  Non-compliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include, but are not limited to, failure to respond to official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents.  If we fail to maintain the patents and patent applications covering our products or procedures, we may not be able to stop a competitor from marketing products that are the same as or similar to our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Due to differences between foreign and U.S. patent laws, our patented intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the United States.  Even if patents are granted outside the United States, effective enforcement in those countries may not be available, and the scope of protection may vary significantly from country to country.  In some cases, we have filed patent applications outside the United States in the EEA, Canada, Australia and Japan and we therefore lack any patent protection in all other countries.  In countries where we do not have significant patent protection, we may not be able to stop a competitor from marketing products in such countries that are the same as or similar to our products.. Trademarks. We rely on our trademarks as one means to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors, and have. 60. registered or applied to register many of these trademarks.  As of December 31, 2017, we had 34 U.S. trademark registrations, 82 foreign trademark registrations, 7 pending U.S. applications to register trademarks and 36 foreign applications to register trademarks.  However, our trademark applications may not be approved.  Third-parties may oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks.  In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands.  Our competitors may infringe our trademarks and we may not have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks.. Confidentiality Agreements and Intellectual Property Assignments. Furthermore, although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, including entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and scientific advisors, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information or technology in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of such agreements.. Intellectual Property Litigation. In the event a competitor infringes upon our patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those patents, trademarks and other rights may be costly, difficult, time consuming or unsuccessful.  Even if successful, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge could be expensive and time consuming and could divert our management's attention from managing our business.  Litigation to defend our patents and trademarks against challenges or enforce our intellectual property rights could provoke significant retaliatory litigation, which could be costly, result in the diversion of management's time and efforts, require us to pay damages and other amounts or prevent us from marketing our existing or future products.  Moreover, we may not have sufficient resources or desire to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents or trademarks against a challenge.. We rely heavily on patent rights that we either license from others or have obtained through assignments which may be subject to assignment back to the original assignor.  In both cases, if we fail to make payments, or under certain other circumstances, the other party may terminate the license or require re-assignment of the patent rights, as applicable.  If we are unable to maintain our licenses to or ownership of such patent rights, as applicable, or obtain additional licenses and assignments that we may need, our ability to compete will be harmed.. We rely heavily on intellectual property that we license from others, including patented technology that is integral to our devices.  We are particularly dependent on our licensing arrangements relating to our MESA technology.  We also rely on our licensing arrangement relating to our angle-stable fixation systems and our licensing arrangement relating to our interbody fusion implants.  Any of these licensors or other third-party licensors may terminate our license or, in some cases, terminate the limited exclusivity we enjoy under a license, in the event that we fail to make required payments or for other causes.  In addition, we may not have the right to enforce licensed patents against third-party infringers, and we thus may be unable to derive full competitive advantage from the licensed patents.  Approximately 44%, 46% and 47% of our revenue were derived from sales of products that incorporate licensed technologies for the years ended December 31, 2017,  2016 and 2015, respectively.  Furthermore, a number of the patents and patent applications we own were acquired pursuant to assignments which are subject to assignment back to the original licensor if we fail to make required payments or for other causes.  If we are unable to maintain our licenses to or ownership of certain patent rights, our ability to compete in the market for spinal surgery devices will be harmed.. In addition, as we enhance our current product offerings and develop new ones, we may find it advisable or necessary to seek additional licenses or assignments from third parties that hold patents covering technology or methods used in our products.  If we cannot obtain these additional licenses or assignments, we could be forced to design around those patents at additional cost or abandon the product altogether.  As a result, our ability to grow our business and compete in the market for spinal surgery devices may be harmed.. The medical device industry is characterized by patent litigation and we could become subject to litigation that could be costly, result in the diversion of management's time and efforts and require us to pay damages or prevent us from marketing our existing or future products.. Our commercial success will depend in part on not infringing the patents or violating the other proprietary rights of others.  Significant litigation regarding patent rights occurs in our industry.  Our competitors in both the United States and abroad, many of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in patent portfolios and competing technologies, may have applied for or obtained or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make, use and sell our products.  Generally, we do not conduct. 61. independent reviews of patents issued to third parties.  In addition, patent applications in the United States and elsewhere can be pending for many years before issuance, so there may be applications of others now pending of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make, use   or sell our products.  The large number of patents, the rapid rate of new patent applications and issuances, the complexities of the technology involved and the uncertainty of litigation increase the risk of business assets and management's attention being diverted to patent litigation.  In the future, we may receive communications from various industry participants alleging our infringement of their patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights and/or offering licenses to such intellectual property.  Any lawsuits resulting from such allegations could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights.  Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following:. • stop making, selling or using products or technologies that allegedly infringe the asserted intellectual property rights;. • lose the opportunity to license our technology to others or to collect royalty payments based upon successful protection and assertion of our intellectual property rights against others;. • incur significant legal expenses;. • pay substantial damages or royalties to the party whose intellectual property rights we may be found to be infringing;. • pay the attorney fees and costs of litigation to the party whose intellectual property rights we may be found to be infringing;. • redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property, which could be costly, disruptive and/or infeasible; or. • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property from third parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all.. Any litigation or claim against us, even those without merit, may cause us to incur substantial costs, and could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business and harm our reputation.  Further, as the number of participants in the spinal surgery industry grows, the possibility of intellectual property infringement claims against us increases.  If we are found to infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, we could be required to pay substantial damages (which may be increased up to three times of awarded damages if we are found to have willfully infringed such intellectual property rights) and/or substantial royalties and could be prevented from selling our products unless we obtain a license or are able to redesign our products to avoid infringement.  Any such license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to redesign our products in a way that would not infringe the intellectual property rights of others.  If we fail to obtain any required licenses or make any necessary changes to our products or technologies, we may have to withdraw existing products from the market or may be unable to commercialize one or more of our products, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, we generally indemnify our customers, independent sales agencies and international distributors with respect to infringement by our products of the proprietary rights of third parties.  Third-parties may assert infringement claims against our customers, independent sales agencies or distributors.  These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our customers, independent sales agencies or distributors, regardless of the merits of these claims.  If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers, independent sales agencies or distributors or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use.  If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our customers may be forced to stop using our products.. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, our employees, our independent sales agencies or our distributors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of our competitors or are in breach of non-competition or non-solicitation agreements with our competitors.. Many of our employees were previously employed at other medical device companies, including our competitors or potential competitors, in some cases until recently.  Many of our independent sales agencies and distributors sell, or in the past have sold, products of our competitors.  We may be subject to claims that we, our employees or our independent sales. 62. agencies and distributors have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of these former employers or competitors.  In addition, we have been and may in the future be subject to claims that we caused an employee to breach the terms of his or her non-competition or non-solicitation agreement.  Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims.  Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and could be a distraction to management.  If our defense to those claims fails, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel.  Any litigation or the threat thereof may adversely affect our ability to hire employees or contract with independent sales agencies and distributors and their representatives.  A loss of key personnel or their work product could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, our business may be harmed, and we may be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, manufacture and sale of medical devices for spine surgery procedures.  Spine surgery involves significant risk of serious complications, including bleeding, nerve injury, paralysis and even death.  Furthermore, if spine surgeons are not sufficiently educated in the use of our products, they may misuse or ineffectively use our products, which may result in unsatisfactory patient outcomes or patient injury.  We could become the subject of product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures, malfunctions, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information resulted in an unsafe condition or injury to patients.. As of December 31, 2017, we have had, and continue to have, a small number of product liability claims relating to our products, none of which either individually, or in the aggregate, have resulted, or we believe will result, in a material negative impact on our business.  In the future, we may be subject to additional product liability claims, some of which may have a negative impact on our business.. Regardless of the merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in:. • decreased demand for our products;. • injury to our reputation;. • significant litigation costs;. • substantial monetary awards to or costly settlements with patients;. • product recalls;. • loss of revenue;. • the inability to commercialize new products or product candidates; and. • diversion of management attention from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend.. Although we have product and other liability insurance that we believe is appropriate for our current level of operations, this insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations.  Our current product liability insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and, if it is available, the coverage may not be adequate to protect us against any future product liability claims.  If we are unable to obtain insurance at acceptable cost or on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we could be exposed to significant financial and other liabilities, which may harm our business.  If a product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects.  Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure coverage in the future.  In addition, a recall of some of our products, whether or not the result of a product liability claim, could result in significant costs and loss of customers.. In addition, medical malpractice carriers are withdrawing coverage in certain regions or substantially increasing premiums.  In the event we become a defendant in a product liability suit in which the treating surgeon or hospital does not have adequate malpractice insurance, the likelihood of liability being imposed on us could increase.. 63. Defending a suit, regardless of merit, could be costly, could divert management's attention from our business and might result in adverse publicity, which could result in the withdrawal of, or inability to recruit, clinical trial patient participants or result in reduced acceptance of our products in the market.  As a result, any product liability claims against us, regardless of their merit, could severely harm our financial condition, strain our management and other resources and adversely affect or eliminate the prospects for commercialization or sales of a product or product candidate that is the subject of any such claim.. Because allograft bone tissue used in our biomaterials program may entail a risk of communicable diseases to human recipients, we may be the subject of product liability claims regarding our allograft bone tissue.. The development and use of allograft bone tissue and biomaterials products may entail particular risk of transmitting diseases to human recipients.  Any such transmission could result in the assertion of substantial product liability claims against us.  In addition, successful product liability claims made against one of our competitors could cause claims to be made against us or expose us to a perception that we are vulnerable to similar claims.  Claims against us arising out of our biomaterials program, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, may also hurt our reputation and ability to sell our products.. Risks Related to Our International Operations. Our international operations subject us to certain operating risks, which could adversely impact our net sales, results of operations and financial condition.. International sales of our products represented 24%, 24% and 28% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  The sale and shipment of our products across international borders, as well as any purchase of components and products from international sources, subject us to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade, import and export and customs regulations and laws.  Compliance with these regulations is costly and exposes us to penalties for non-compliance.  Other laws and regulations that can significantly impact us include various anti-bribery laws, including the FCPA and anti-boycott laws.  Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, suspension or withdrawal of our CE Certificates of Conformity, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments, product recalls and withdrawals, restrictions on certain business activities, and exclusion or debarment from government contracting.  Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping and sales activities.. Many of the countries in which we sell our products are, to some degree, subject to political, economic or social instability.  Our international operations expose us and our distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions.  These risks include, but are not limited to:. • differing existing or future regulatory and certification requirements;. • the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations;. • the imposition of costly and lengthy new export licensing requirements;. • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally, which could result from, among other causes, the fact that many foreign governments subject their constituent surgical device companies to a materially less costly regulatory regime than that imposed upon U.S. surgical device companies by the United States government;. • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations;. • changes in third-party reimbursement policies that may require some of the patients who receive our products to directly absorb medical costs or that may necessitate the reduction of the selling prices of our products;. • changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade;. • the imposition of new trade restrictions;. 64. • the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors;. • scrutiny of foreign tax authorities which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes being imposed on us;. • potentially adverse U.S. tax consequences, including regulatory requirements regarding our ability to repatriate profits to the United States;. • the imposition of U.S. or international sanctions against a country, company, person or entity with whom we do business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person or entity;. • laws and business practices favoring local companies;. • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods;. • management communication and integration problems related to entering new markets with different languages, cultures and political systems;. • difficulties in maintaining consistency with our internal guidelines in new markets;. • difficulties in enforcing agreements through certain foreign legal systems;. • the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries and difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights internationally;. • political and economic instability and terrorism; and. • adverse effects due to changes in the EU or Eurozone membership, including risks associated with the exit of the United Kingdom from the EU.. In the countries where we sell our products through distributors, our distributors operate as independent businesses from us and may, from time to time, have differing strategic objectives.  As a result, our ability to collect outstanding receivables and the predictability of future purchases of our products are dependent on the operating performance of these independent businesses.. In addition, we may encounter difficulties in converting our earnings from international operations to U.S. dollars for use in the United States.  These obstacles may include problems moving funds out of the countries in which the funds were earned and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable in foreign countries where the usual accounts receivable payment cycle is longer.. Any of these factors may adversely impact our operations.  All of our international sales with independent distributor partners to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars.  In the EEA, healthcare regulation and reimbursement for medical devices varies significantly from country-to-country.  This changing environment could adversely affect our ability to sell our products in some EEA countries, which could negatively affect our results of operations.. Our international operations expose us to risks of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates between the US dollar and the currencies in which our foreign operations receive revenues and pay expenses.. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, during times of a strengthening US dollar, our reported international revenues and earnings will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer US dollars. In addition, the assets and liabilities of our non-US subsidiaries are translated into US dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. Revenues and expenses are translated into US dollars at the average exchange rate for the period. Translation adjustments arising from the use of differing exchange rates from period to period are recorded in shareholders' equity as accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Translation adjustments arising from intercompany receivables with our foreign subsidiaries are generally recorded as a component of other expense (income).  To date, we have not used risk management techniques to hedge the risks associated with these fluctuations. Even if we were to implement hedging strategies,. 65. not every exposure can be hedged and, where hedges are put in place based on expected foreign currency exchange exposure, they are based on forecasts that may vary or that may later prove to have been inaccurate. As a result, changes in currency exchange rates and our failure to effectively hedge these risks will cause our revenues, operating costs, net loss and stockholders' equity to fluctuate, as they have in the past, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Failure to comply with the FCPA and similar laws associated with our activities outside the United States could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences.. We are subject to the FCPA and other anti-bribery legislation around the world.  The FCPA generally prohibits covered entities and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments, offers or promises to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other advantages.  In addition, the FCPA imposes recordkeeping and internal controls requirements on publicly traded corporations and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to, among other things, prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of \"off books\" slush funds from which such improper payments can be made.  As a substantial portion of our revenue is, and we expect will continue to be, from jurisdictions outside of the United States, we face significant risks if we fail to comply with the FCPA and other laws that prohibit improper payments, offers or promises of payment to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by us and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other advantages.  In many foreign countries, particularly in countries with developing economies, some of which represent significant markets for us, it may be a local custom that businesses operating in such countries engage in business practices that are prohibited by the FCPA or other laws and regulations.  Although we have implemented a company policy requiring our employees and consultants to comply with the FCPA and similar laws, such policy may not be effective at preventing all potential FCPA or other violations.  Although our agreements with our international distributors clearly state our expectations for our distributors' compliance with U.S. laws, including the FCPA, and provide us with various remedies upon any non-compliance, including the ability to terminate the agreement, we also cannot guarantee our distributors' compliance with U.S. laws, including the FCPA.  Therefore there can be no assurance that none of our employees and agents, or those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, have not and will not take actions that violate our policies or applicable laws, for which we may be ultimately held responsible.  Any violation of the FCPA and related policies could result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, which could have a material and adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.. Furthermore, we are subject to the export controls and economic embargo rules and regulations of the United States, including, but not limited to, the Export Administration Regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Department of the Treasury, as well as the laws and regulations administered by the Department of Commerce.  These regulations limit our ability to market, sell, distribute or otherwise transfer our products or technology to prohibited countries or persons.  A determination that we  have failed to comply, whether knowingly or inadvertently, may result in substantial penalties, including fines and enforcement actions and civil and/or criminal sanctions, the disgorgement of profits and the imposition of a court- appointed monitor, as well as the denial of export privileges, and may have an adverse effect on our reputation.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. We are incurring increased costs and are subject to additional regulations and requirements as a result of being a public company, which could lower our profits or make it more difficult to run our business.. As a public company, we are incurring significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements.  We also have incurred and will continue to incur costs associated with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ.  The expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing.  These rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs related to this effort over the past three fiscal years.  These laws and regulations also could make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage.  These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors, our board committees or as our executive officers.  Furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our common stock, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation.. The market price of shares of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline.. 66. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations.  Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations.  This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of shares of our common stock in spite of our operating performance.  In addition, our results of operations could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors due to a number of potential factors, including variations in our quarterly results of operations, additions or departures of key management personnel, failure to meet analysts' earnings estimates, publication of research reports about our industry, litigation and government investigations, changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations or enforcement thereof affecting our business, adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future, changes in market valuations of similar companies or speculation in the press or investment community, announcements by our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, adverse publicity about the industries we participate in or individual scandals, and in response the market price of shares of our common stock could decrease significantly.  You may be unable to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price at which you purchased them.. In the past few years, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations.  In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies.  This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.. Because we have no current plans to pay cash dividends on our common stock, you may not receive any return on investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. We have no current plans to pay dividends on our common stock.  The declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends on shares of common stock will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors.  Our Board of Directors may take into account general and economic conditions, our financial condition and results of operations, our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, capital requirements, contractual, legal, tax and regulatory restrictions and implications on the payment of dividends by us to our stockholders or by our subsidiaries to us and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant.  In addition, our ability to pay dividends will be limited by our revolving credit facility and may be limited by covenants of other indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur in the future.  As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell our common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it.. You may be diluted by the future issuance of additional common stock in connection with our incentive plans, acquisitions, conversion of our convertible senior notes or otherwise.. We have approximately 706.6 million shares of common stock authorized but unissued.  Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue these shares of common stock and options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to common stock for the consideration and on the terms and conditions established by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion, whether in connection with acquisitions or otherwise.  We have reserved an aggregate of 1,196,411 shares for future issuance under our 2016 and 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plans.  In addition, as of December 31, 2017, we have reserved 189,663 shares of common stock for future issuance under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (\"ESPP\").  In addition, we have also reserved up to 2,974,415 shares of our authorized common stock to permit the conversion of all of our outstanding convertible senior notes.  Any common stock that we issue, including under our Omnibus Incentive Plans, our ESPP or other equity incentive plans that we may adopt in the future, or from the conversion of our convertible senior notes, would dilute the percentage ownership held by the investors who currently own our common stock.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the merger or acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our Board of Directors.  Among other things:. • although we do not have a stockholder rights plan, these provisions would allow us to authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock in connection with a stockholder rights plan or otherwise, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock;. 67. • these provisions provide for a classified Board of Directors with staggered three-year terms;. • these provisions prohibit stockholder action by written consent unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office;. • these provisions provide that the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, or repeal our bylaws and any amendment, alteration, rescission or repeal of our bylaws by our stockholders requires the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all the then-outstanding shares of stock of the Company entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class; and. • these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial.  These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our common stock.  These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire.. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue and designate shares of our preferred stock in additional series without stockholder approval.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors, without the approval of our stockholders, to issue 100 million shares of our preferred stock, subject to limitations prescribed by applicable law, rules and regulations and the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as shares of preferred stock in series, and to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each such series, and to fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof.  The powers, preferences and rights of these additional series of preferred stock may be senior to or on parity with our common stock, which may reduce its value.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitation.. As of December 31, 2017, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards (\"NOLs\"), to offset future taxable income. A lack of future taxable income would adversely affect our ability to use these NOLs and, as a result of this and other factors, we have taken a valuation allowance against the NOLs.  In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), a corporation that undergoes an \"ownership change\" is subject to limitations on its ability to use its NOLs to offset future taxable income. In general, a corporation that undergoes an ownership change may use its NOLs for a given year in an amount not greater than the product of the applicable federal long-term tax-exempt rate multiplied by the value of its capital stock immediately before the ownership change, and potentially increased for certain gains recognized by the corporation within five years after the ownership change if it has a net built-in gain in its assets at the time of the ownership change.  We underwent such an ownership change in 2010 and 2015, and, as a result, we are limited in our ability to use the portion of our NOLs that existed as of the time of such ownership changes. Because of this limitation and other factors, we have taken a valuation allowance against all of our NOLs. If we experience another ownership change, we would also become limited in our ability to use the portion of any NOLs that did not exist as of the time of the ownership changes that occurred in 2010 or 2015.. 68"
