[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. This Item may contain statements which constitute \"forward-looking statements\" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See \"Forward-Looking Statements\" at the outset of Part I of this Report for cautionary information with respect to such forward-looking statements. Such cautionary information should be read as applying to all forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this Report. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may vary from those in forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors including those we discuss in this Item and elsewhere in this Report. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the risks described below are those that we believe are material to our company. The occurrence of any of the events discussed below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial position, results of operations and cash flows as well as the trading price of our common stock.. We operate in a highly competitive industry.. The fabricated products segment of the aluminum industry is highly competitive. We compete with others in the industry based upon quality, availability, price, customer service and delivery performance. Some of our competitors are substantially larger and may have greater financial resources than we do. Additionally, some competitors may operate more facilities than we do, be geographically closer to our customers than we are, employ more efficient or advanced technologies than we do, or have other strategic advantages. To the extent that our competitors have existing facilities or locate new production facilities in developing economies, their facilities may have a manufacturing cost advantage compared to our facilities, which are all located in North America. Foreign competitors may sell products similar to our products at lower prices as a result of lower manufacturing costs, currency exchange rates that periodically favor foreign competition or dumping those products in North America in violation of existing trade laws. Additionally, new parties may become capable of manufacturing similar products and qualifying them with our customers. The capability and incremental capacity for such products that these new competitors introduce to the market could lead to further competitive pricing pressure. We may not be able to compete by differentiating ourselves based on the quality, availability and delivery of our products or our customer service. We also may not be able to adequately reduce our selling prices or our costs to levels competitive with new or foreign competitors. Increased competition. 9. could cause a reduction in our shipment volumes, our product pricing or both shipment volumes and product pricing, any one of which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We depend on a core group of significant customers.. In 2017, Reliance and Boeing were our two largest customers, representing approximately 27% and 12%, respectively, of our net sales. Our five largest customers in total accounted for approximately 53% of our 2017 net sales. Most of these customers have one or more sizable sales agreements with us. If one or more of these customers experienced a prolonged period of adverse demand, depressed business activity or financial distress, if any of these customers breached or sought relief from its contractual obligations under its sales agreements with us or if any of these customer relationships otherwise ended or materially deteriorated and such lost business was not successfully replaced, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. We experience fluctuation in certain costs that we cannot pass through to our customers and face pressure from our customers on pricing.. We generally are unable to pass fluctuations of certain costs through to our customers, including the cost of energy, certain raw materials and freight. Further, cost cutting initiatives that many of our customers have adopted generally result in downward pressure on pricing. If we are unable to generate sufficient productivity improvements and cost savings in the future to offset reductions in our selling prices and increases in our costs that we cannot pass through to our customers, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Our industry is very sensitive to foreign economic, regulatory and political factors that may adversely affect our business.. We import primary aluminum from, and manufacture fabricated products used in, foreign countries. Our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by numerous factors in the politically and economically diverse jurisdictions: (i) from which our input materials are sourced; (ii) in which we operate; (iii) in which our customers operate; or (iv) in which our products are consumed or further fabricated. Such factors include but are not limited to:. • trade disputes;. • the implementation of controls on imports, exports or prices;. • the adoption of new forms of taxation and duties;. • the imposition of currency restrictions;. • inflation relative to the U.S. and related fluctuations in currency and interest rates;. • government regulation in the countries in which we operate, service customers or purchase raw materials;. • civil unrest and labor problems;. • the nationalization or appropriation of rights or other assets; and. • acts or threats of war or terrorism;. The commercial aerospace industry is cyclical and downturns in the commercial aerospace industry could adversely affect our business.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from products sold to the aerospace industry. Notwithstanding a secular growth trend over the past fifteen years, the aerospace industry has historically been highly cyclical. Numerous factors that influence demand for new commercial aircraft could result in cancellations or deferrals of aircraft orders and a global decrease in new commercial aircraft deliveries. These factors include but are not limited to: (i) declines or reduced growth trends in global travel and airline passenger traffic; (ii) replacement of older aircraft and fuel inefficient aircraft; (iii) changing airline strategies affecting preferences for jumbo aircraft models as opposed to single-aisle aircraft models; (iv) airline industry profitability; (v) the state of the U.S. and global economies; (vi) concerns regarding terrorism or the threat of terrorism; (vii) concerns regarding pandemics of infectious disease; and (viii) safety concerns with newly introduced aircraft. Despite existing backlogs, adverse developments in any one or more of these influencing factors may lead to reduced demand for new aircraft that utilize our products, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. 10. Reductions in demand for our products may be more severe than, and may occur prior to, reductions in demand for our customers' products.. Most of our products undergo further fabrication by other parties before being deployed in their end uses. In particular, our Aero/HS products undergo numerous stages of further fabrication or assembly by a number of parties in the supply chain, often over the course of many months. The lead time from when we sell our Aero/HS product to when the finished product is installed on an aircraft often exceeds a year. Due to this long lead time, demand for our products may increase prior to demand for our customers' products or may decrease when our customers experience or anticipate softening demand for their products. Our customers typically respond to reduced demand for their products by depleting their inventory until their inventory falls to a new desired level. This causes a greater reduction in demand for our products than our customers experience for their products. Further, the reduction in demand for our products can be exacerbated if our customers' inventory levels had been higher than normal, if production is delayed for specific commercial airframe models, if our customers previously had purchased products from us at committed sales contract volumes that exceeded their actual need or for other reasons. The amplified reduction in demand for our products while our customers consume their inventory to meet their business needs (destocking) may adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Reductions in defense spending for aerospace and non-aerospace military applications could adversely affect demand for our products.. Our products are used in a wide variety of military applications, including military aircraft, armored vehicles and ordnance. Many military programs that currently use or in the future could use our products may be subject to changes in military strategy and government priorities. Further, while many of the U.S. government programs span several years, they are often funded annually, and funding is generally subject to congressional appropriations. When U.S. and foreign governments are faced with competing national priorities, there can be significant pressure to reduce defense spending, which could reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our customers may reduce their demand for aluminum products in favor of alternative materials.. Our products compete with other materials for use in various customer applications. For instance, the commercial aerospace industry has used and continues to evaluate the further use of titanium, composites and carbon fiber materials as alternatives to aluminum to reduce aircraft weight and increase fuel efficiency. Additionally, while the automotive industry has continued to increase use of aluminum in vehicle production to reduce vehicle weight and achieve government-mandated fuel efficiency standards, manufacturers may revert to steel or other materials for certain applications and rely on improved drivetrain technology, more efficient engines, aerodynamics or other measures to achieve fuel efficiency goals. The willingness of customers to use materials other than aluminum could adversely affect the demand for our products, particularly our Aero/HS products and Automotive Extrusions, and thus could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our customers may reduce their demand for our products if the government loosens CAFE standards or if oil prices remain low for a protracted period of time.. Efficient use of fossil fuels partially drives demand for aluminum in transportation applications. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (\"EPA\") and other federal regulatory agencies have generally sought to limit growth of fossil fuel usage by establishing stricter fuel efficiency standards. However, the current leaders of the EPA and other federal agencies oppose the environmental agendas of prior administrations and could relax these previously established fuel efficiency standards. Additionally, in periods of lower oil prices, the economic benefits of replacing older aircraft and automobiles with more fuel-efficient models are less compelling. A relaxation of fuel efficiency standards by the EPA or an extended period of moderate oil prices could reduce demand for new aircraft and automobiles, which could adversely affect the demand for our products and have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Downturns in the automotive and ground transportation industries could adversely affect our business.. The demand for our Automotive Extrusions and many of our general engineering and other industrial products is dependent on the production of cars, light trucks, SUVs and heavy duty vehicles and trailers in North America. The automotive industry is highly cyclical, as new vehicle demand is dependent on consumer spending and is tied closely to the overall strength of the North American economy. Even with the automotive industry's growing use of aluminum to reduce vehicle weight, weak demand for, or lower production of, new cars, light trucks, SUVs and heavy duty vehicles and trailers could adversely affect the demand for our products and have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. 11. Changes in consumer demand for particular motor vehicles could adversely affect our business.. Sensitivity to fuel prices and consumer preferences can influence consumer demand for motor vehicles that have a higher content of the aluminum Automotive Extrusions that we supply. The loss of business with respect to, or a lack of commercial success of, one or more particular vehicle models for which we are a significant supplier could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We may experience difficulties in the launch or production ramp-up of new products which could adversely affect our business.. As we ramp up manufacturing processes for newly introduced products, we may experience difficulties, including manufacturing disruptions, delays or other complications, which could adversely impact our ability to serve our customers, our reputation, our costs of production and, ultimately, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Unplanned events may interrupt our production operations, which may adversely affect our business.. The production of fabricated aluminum products is subject to unplanned events such as explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural disasters, accidents, labor disruptions, transportation interruptions and supply interruptions. Operational interruptions could significantly curtail the production capacity of a facility for a period of time. We have redundant capacity and capability to produce many of our extruded products within our manufacturing platform to mitigate our business risk from such interruptions, but interruptions at Trentwood where our production of plate and sheet is concentrated, could significantly compromise our ability to meet our customers' needs. Delayed delivery of our products to customers who require on-time delivery from us may cause customers to purchase alternative products at a higher cost, reschedule their own production or incur other incremental costs. Customers may be able to pursue financial claims against us for their incremental costs, and we may incur costs to correct such problems in addition to any liability resulting from such claims. Interruptions may also harm our reputation among actual and potential customers, potentially resulting in a loss of business. To the extent these losses are not covered by insurance, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by such events.. We may not be able to successfully implement our productivity enhancement and cost reduction initiatives that are necessary to offset competitive price pressure.. Over time, we have experienced pricing pressure on many of our products and anticipate continued pricing pressure in the future. Ongoing and heightened competitive price pressure makes it increasingly important for us to be a low cost producer. Although we have undertaken and expect to continue to undertake productivity enhancement and cost reduction initiatives, including significant investments in our facilities to improve our manufacturing efficiency, cost and product quality, we cannot make assurances that we will complete all of these initiatives, that we will fully realize the estimated cost savings from such activities, that short-to-medium term improvements from new efficiencies and lower cost structure achieved will become permanent or that we will be able to continue to reduce cost and increase productivity over the long term.. Our investment and other expansion projects may not be completed, start up as scheduled or deliver the expected capacity and other benefits.. Our ability to complete our investment and expansion projects and the timing and costs of doing so are subject to various risks associated with all major construction projects, many of which are beyond our control, including technical or mechanical problems and economic conditions. Additionally, the start-up of operations after such projects have been completed can be complicated and costly. If we are unable to fully complete these projects, if the actual costs for these projects exceed our expectations, if the start-up phase after completion is more complicated than anticipated or if the capacity and other benefits of these projects are less than anticipated, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. Our business could be adversely affected by increases in the cost of aluminum.. Our largest inputs to produce fabricated aluminum products are primary aluminum and recycled scrap aluminum. The pricing of primary and recycled scrap aluminum fluctuates in response to global supply and demand. Additionally, recycled scrap aluminum is generally priced at a discount to primary aluminum that loosens and tightens in response to regional aluminum scrap supply and demand. The timing and magnitude of changes in market pricing for primary and scrap aluminum are largely unpredictable. Our pricing structures for fabricated aluminum products generally allow us to pass fluctuations in the price of primary aluminum through to our customers so that we can minimize our exposure to metal price risk. However, competitive dynamics for certain of our high value added products may limit the amount or delay the timing of selling price increases on our products to recover our increased aluminum costs, resulting in a time lag during which we may be partially exposed to metal price risk. If these events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of. 12. operations and cash flows. In addition, if the market price for primary aluminum were to remain high for an extended period of time, the corresponding increase in our selling price for our fabricated products may cause some of our customers to switch to other materials in lieu of our products, causing sales of our fabricated aluminum products to decrease, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our business could be adversely affected by the pricing and availability of recycled scrap aluminum.. We can efficiently use certain forms of recycled scrap aluminum in lieu of primary aluminum and alloying metals in our operations because recycled scrap aluminum trades at a discount to primary aluminum. The size of the discount to primary aluminum depends on regional scrap aluminum supply and demand dynamics. Larger discounts, generally available in periods of ample regional scrap aluminum supply relative to demand, enhance the economic advantage to us of using recycled scrap aluminum in lieu of primary aluminum and alloying metals. The timing and magnitude of changes in scrap discounts relative to primary aluminum are largely unpredictable. If the availability of recycled scrap aluminum in our regional markets were to tighten, scrap discounts relative to primary aluminum could decline and the amount of recycled scrap aluminum we could procure for use in our operations could decline, either of which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Volatile pricing for commodities, including aluminum, certain alloying metals, natural gas and electricity, can cause our liquidity to decline and lead to non-cash charges in periods of declining commodity pricing.. We execute a hedging strategy to reduce the risk to our business from the volatility of prices for aluminum, certain alloying metals, natural gas and electricity. Large price declines for these commodities could cause us to incur sizable non-cash mark to market losses on our hedge positions. Also, a market price decline for aluminum could result in a non-cash lower-of-cost-or-market inventory charge. Besides non-cash losses, lower commodity prices could reduce our liquidity due to lower borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility (caused by lower market value of our inventory which serves as collateral for the facility) and due to potential cash required for margin calls on our hedge positions. Non-cash losses and reduced liquidity could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Our hedging programs may limit the income and cash flows we would otherwise expect to receive if our hedging program were not in place and may otherwise affect our business.. In the ordinary course of business, we enter into hedging transactions to limit our exposure to risks relating to changes in the market prices of primary aluminum, certain alloying metals, natural gas and electricity, as well as fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. To the extent that market prices or exchange rates at the expiration of these hedging transactions would have been more favorable to us than the fixed prices or rates established by these hedging transactions, our income and cash flows will be lower than they otherwise would have been. As noted above, our liquidity could also be adversely affected to the extent we incur margin calls from our hedging counterparties due to the market price of the underlying commodity or the foreign currency exchange rates deviating adversely from fixed, floor or ceiling prices or rates established by our outstanding hedging transactions. Our failure to satisfy certain covenants in the underlying hedging documents or the occurrence of an event of default thereunder could also trigger margin calls that could adversely impact our liquidity, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our hedging programs also expose us to the creditworthiness of our hedging counterparties, which is inherently difficult to assess and can change quickly and dramatically. Non-performance by a hedging counterparty could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Covenants and events of default in our debt instruments could limit our ability to undertake certain types of transactions and adversely affect our liquidity.. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 5.875% Senior Notes due 2024 (\"5.875% Senior Notes\") contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to:. •incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness;. •pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock;. •prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt;. •issue certain preferred stock or similar equity securities;. •make loans and investments;. •sell assets;. 13. •incur liens;. •enter into transactions with affiliates;. •alter the businesses we conduct;. •enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and. •consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets.. In addition, restrictive covenants in our revolving credit facility require us in certain circumstances to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control and we may be unable to meet them.. A breach of the covenants or restrictions under our revolving credit facility or under the indenture governing the 5.875% Senior Notes could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt. A payment default or an acceleration following an event of default under our revolving credit facility or our indenture for our 5.875% Senior Notes could trigger an event of default under the other indebtedness obligation as well as any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies, which could result in the principal of and the accrued and unpaid interest on all such debt becoming due and payable. In addition, an event of default under our revolving credit facility could permit the lenders under our revolving credit facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay any amounts due and payable under our revolving credit facility, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In the event our lenders or noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. As a result of these restrictions, we may be:. •limited in how we conduct our business and grow in accordance with our strategy;. •unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or. •unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities.. In addition, our financial results, our level of indebtedness and our credit ratings could adversely affect the availability and terms of any additional or replacement financing.. More detailed descriptions of our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 5.875% Senior Notes are included in filings made by us with the SEC, along with the documents themselves, which provide the full text of these covenants.. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments contain significant qualifications and exceptions.. While our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the 5.875% Senior Notes place limitations on our ability to pay dividends or make other distributions, repurchase or redeem capital stock, make loans and investments and incur additional indebtedness, investors should be aware that these limitations are subject to significant qualifications and exceptions. The aggregate amount of payments made or incremental debt incurred in compliance with these limitations could be substantial.. As indicated above, more detailed descriptions of our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 5.875% Senior Notes are included in filings made by us with the SEC, along with the documents themselves, which provide the full text of these covenants.. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our debt.. Our ability to make scheduled interest and principal payments on our debt obligations or to refinance such obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the interest, principal and premium, if any, on our indebtedness.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, dispose of material assets or operations, restructure or refinance our indebtedness or seek additional debt or equity capital. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative. 14. actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the 5.875% Senior Notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or certain forms of equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate asset dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due.. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of the 5.875% Senior Notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under our revolving credit facility could terminate their commitments to loan money, the lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for cash to meet our obligations and pay any dividends.. We are a holding company and conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries, certain of which are not guarantors of our 5.875% Senior Notes or our revolving credit facility. Accordingly, repayments of our 5.875% Senior Notes and amounts due under our revolving credit facility are dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries that are not guarantors of our revolving credit facility or the 5.875% Senior Notes have no obligation to pay amounts due on the revolving credit facility or the 5.875% Senior Notes or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required interest and principal payments on our revolving credit facility, the 5.875% Senior Notes or other indebtedness.. Our inability to receive distributions from our subsidiaries, otherwise generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations or refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, would adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. Our failure to maintain satisfactory labor relations could adversely affect our business.. At December 31, 2017, approximately 63% of our employees were represented by labor unions under labor contracts with varying durations and expiration dates. Employees at Trentwood and our Newark, Ohio facility are represented by the USW under a single contract that extends through September 2020. The USW also represents employees at five other facilities, two of which have contracts expiring in 2018. As part of any labor negotiation, the future wages, healthcare benefits and excise taxes that may result therefrom, and other benefits that we agree to, could adversely affect our future financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, negotiations could divert management attention, result in unsatisfactory terms and conditions, fail in coming to any agreement at all or result in strikes, work stoppages or other union-initiated work actions, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, the existence of labor agreements may not prevent such union-initiated work actions.. Our participation in multi-employer union pension plans may have an adverse effect on our financial performance.. We participate in several multi-employer pension plans pursuant to our collective bargaining agreements. Our contribution amounts to these plans were established by collective bargaining and, along with benefit levels and related items, will be issues in our future collective bargaining negotiations. Based on the most recent information available to us, we believe some of these plans are underfunded and may require increased contributions from participating employers to fill the funding shortfall in the future. An employer that withdraws or partially withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan may incur a withdrawal liability for the portion of the plan's underfunding that is allocable to the withdrawing employer under very complex actuarial and allocation rules. The failure of a withdrawing employer to fund these obligations can increase the burden of the remaining participating employers to make up the funding shortfall, which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The increase or decrease in our contributions to these multi-employer pension plans will depend on our future collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, actions of other participating employers, government regulations and the actual return on assets held in the plans, among other factors.. The USW has director nomination rights through which it may influence us, and interests of the USW may not align with our interests or the interests of our stockholders, debt holders and other stakeholders.. Pursuant to agreements we have with the USW, the USW has the right, subject to certain limitations, to nominate candidates which, if elected, would constitute 40% of our Board of Directors through December 31, 2020. As a result, the directors. 15. nominated by the USW have a significant voice in the decisions of our Board of Directors. It is possible that the USW may seek to extend the term of the agreement and its right to nominate board members beyond 2020.. Environmental compliance, clean up and damage claims may decrease our cash flow and adversely affect our business.. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations with respect to, among other things: air and water emissions and discharges; the generation, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of solid and hazardous waste; and the release of hazardous or toxic substances, pollutants and contaminants into the environment. Compliance with these environmental laws is and will continue to be costly.. We have accrued and will accrue for costs that are reasonably expected to be incurred based on available information with respect to fines, penalties and expenses for alleged breaches of environmental laws and investigations and environmental clean up activities with respect to our continuing operations and certain of our former operations. However, actual costs could exceed accrued amounts, perhaps significantly, and such expenditures could occur sooner than anticipated, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Additionally, we may be subject to new claims from governmental authorities or third parties related to alleged injuries to the environment, human health or natural resources, including claims with respect to waste disposal sites, the clean up of sites currently or formerly used by us or exposure of individuals to hazardous materials. New laws or regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations may also be enacted, including government mandated green initiatives and limitations on carbon emissions that increase the cost or complexity of compliance. Costs related to any new investigation, clean-up or other remediation, fines or penalties, resolution of third-party claims or compliance with new or amended laws and regulations may be significant and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. Governmental regulation relating to greenhouse gas emissions may subject us to significant new costs and restrictions on our operations.. Laws enacted by the U.S. Congress or policies of the EPA could regulate greenhouse gas emissions through cap-and-trade systems, carbon taxes or other programs under which emitters would be required to buy allowances to offset emissions of greenhouse gas, pay carbon based taxes, make significant capital investments, alter manufacturing practices or curtail production. In addition, several states, including the state of Washington, in which we have manufacturing operations, have considered and continue to consider various greenhouse gas regulation and reduction programs through legislative proposals, executive orders and ballot initiatives. Certain of our manufacturing plants use significant amounts of electricity and natural gas and certain of our plants emit amounts of greenhouse gas above certain minimum thresholds that have or may be imposed. Greenhouse gas regulations could restrict our access to natural gas and limit our ability to use natural gas and increase the price we pay for natural gas and electricity, any one of which could significantly increase our costs, reduce our competitiveness in the global economy or otherwise adversely affect our business, operations or financial results.. We may be subject to risks relating to our information technology systems.. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and manage and operate our business. A breach in cyber security could expose us, our customers, our suppliers and our employees to risks of misuse of confidential information. A breach could also result in manipulation and destruction of data, production downtimes and operations disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, business or results of operations. The costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means.. In addition, from time to time we may implement new technology systems or replace and/or upgrade our current information technology systems. These upgrades or replacements may not improve our productivity to the levels anticipated and may subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with implementing, replacing and updating these systems, including potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time and other risks of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into other existing systems. Our inability to prevent information technology system disruptions or to mitigate the impact of such disruptions could have an adverse effect on us.. We may not be able to utilize all of our net operating loss carryforwards.. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes could be limited to the extent they expire before we fully utilize them or if changes in federal or certain state tax laws reduce or eliminate our ability to use them to offset income taxes. Additionally, a change in our ownership, specifically a change in ownership of more than 50% during any period. 16. of 36 consecutive months (\"ownership change\"), as determined under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (\"Code\"), could reduce our ability to fully use our net operating loss carryforwards and other significant tax attributes.. To prevent an unintended ownership change that could compromise our tax attributes, our stockholders have (a) approved an amendment to our certificate of incorporation to implement stock transfer restrictions (\"Transfer Restrictions\") that will expire on May 26, 2019 and (b) ratified a tax asset protection rights plan (\"Tax Asset Rights Plan\"), which will expire on April 7, 2019. While both were designed to preserve our ability to fully utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and other significant tax attributes to offset future taxable income, neither the Transfer Restrictions nor the Tax Asset Rights Plan completely protects us from an ownership change that could limit our use of our net operating loss carryforwards and other valuable tax attributes.. After our net operating loss carryforwards and other significant tax attributes are fully utilized or if they become unavailable to us before we fully utilize them, our future income will not be shielded from federal and state income taxation and the funds otherwise available for general corporate purposes would be reduced.. We could engage in or approve transactions involving our common shares that inadvertently impair the use of our federal income tax attributes.. Section 382 of the Code affects our ability to use our federal income tax attributes, including our net operating loss carryforwards, following a more than 50% change in ownership during any period of 36 consecutive months, an ownership change, as determined under the Code. Certain transactions may be included in the calculation of an ownership change, including transactions involving our repurchase or issuance of our common shares. When we engage in or approve any transaction involving our common shares that may be included in the calculation of an ownership change, our practice is to first perform the calculations necessary to confirm that our ability to use our federal income tax attributes will not be affected. These calculations are complex and reflect certain necessary assumptions. Accordingly, it is possible that we could approve or engage in a transaction involving our common shares that causes an ownership change and inadvertently impairs the use of our federal income tax attributes.. The Tax Asset Rights Plan and Transfer Restrictions implemented by us to protect our tax attributes could hinder the market for our common stock.. To reduce the risk that an ownership change would jeopardize the preservation of our U.S. federal income tax attributes, including net operating loss carryforwards, for purposes of Sections 382 and 383 of the Code, we adopted the Tax Asset Rights Plan and implemented the Transfer Restrictions as discussed above. The Tax Asset Rights Plan and the Transfer Restrictions may make our stock less attractive to large institutional holders, discourage potential acquirers from attempting to take over our company, limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and otherwise hinder the market for our common stock.. The Transfer Restrictions implemented by us to protect our tax attributes may void transactions in our common stock effected by 5% stockholders.. The Transfer Restrictions in our certificate of incorporation restrict the transfer of our equity securities if, as a result of the transfer, either any person would become the owner of 4.99% or more of our stock as determined under Section 382 of the Code (\"5% stockholder\") or the percentage stock ownership of any 5% stockholder would be increased. The Transfer Restrictions are subject to exceptions set forth in our certificate of incorporation and will expire in accordance with their terms on May 26, 2019. Any transfer that violates the Transfer Restrictions is void and will be unwound as provided in our certificate of incorporation.. We could engage in or approve transactions involving our common shares that adversely affect significant stockholders.. Under the Transfer Restrictions in our certificate of incorporation, prior to May 26, 2019, our 5% stockholders are, in effect, required, and under the Tax Asset Rights Plan, prior to April 7, 2019, encouraged, to seek the approval of, or a determination by, our Board of Directors before they engage in certain transactions involving our common stock. We could engage in or approve transactions involving our common stock that limit our ability to approve future transactions involving our common stock by our 5% stockholders without impairing the use of our federal income tax attributes. In addition, we could engage in or approve transactions involving our common stock that cause stockholders owning less than 5% to become 5% stockholders, resulting in those stockholders' having to seek the approval of, or a determination by, our Board of Directors before they could engage in certain future transactions involving our common stock. For example, share repurchases reduce the number of our common shares outstanding and could cause a stockholder holding less than 4.99% of our stock as determined under Section 382 of the Code to become a 5% stockholder even though it has not acquired any additional shares.. 17. The ownership of our stock is concentrated, with a few owners who, individually or collectively, could exert significant influence over us.. Certain investment funds, advisers and organizations each own greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2017. As a result, any of them could have significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the composition of our Board of Directors. Further, to the extent that the substantial stockholders were to act in concert, they could potentially control any action taken by our stockholders. This concentration of ownership could also facilitate or hinder proxy contests, tender offers, open market purchase programs, mergers or other purchases of our common stock that might otherwise give stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of our common stock or cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We cannot make assurances that the interests of our major stockholders will not conflict with our interests or the interests of our other investors.. Payment of dividends may not continue in the future and our payment of dividends and stock repurchases are subject to restrictions.. Our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend for each quarter since the summer of 2007. In addition, our Board of Directors has authorized a stock repurchase program. The future declaration and payment of dividends and the purchase of our shares under the repurchase program, if any, are at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our financial and operating results, financial position and anticipated cash requirements. Additionally, our revolving credit facility and the indenture for our 5.875% Senior Notes impose limitations on our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our common shares. We can give no assurance that dividends will be declared and paid, that dividends will not be reduced or that purchases of our shares pursuant to our repurchase program will occur in the future.. Delaware law and our governing documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock.. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage a change of control of our company or deter tender offers for our common stock. We are currently subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. These anti-takeover provisions impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us. Additionally, provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to determine the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions of unissued shares of preferred stock without any vote or action by our stockholders. As a result, our Board of Directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of common stock. Our certificate of incorporation also divides our Board of Directors into three classes of directors who serve for staggered terms. A significant effect of a classified Board of Directors may be to deter hostile takeover attempts because an acquirer could experience delays in replacing a majority of directors. Moreover, stockholders are not permitted to call a special meeting.. In addition, while the Transfer Restrictions in our certificate of incorporation and the Tax Asset Rights Plan are designed to reduce the risk that an ownership change could limit our ability to fully utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and other significant tax attributes to offset future taxable income, both could have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company and may limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. The Tax Asset Rights Plan will expire on April 7, 2019, and the Transfer Restrictions will expire on May 26, 2019.. In addition to the risks discussed above, we are subject to a variety of other risks as a publicly traded U.S. manufacturing company.. As a publicly traded U.S. manufacturing company, we are subject to a variety of other risks, each of which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, or the price of our common stock. These risks include but are not limited to:. • the effects of global economic uncertainty;. • regulations that subject us to additional capital or margin requirements or other restrictions that make it more difficult to hedge risks associated with our business or increase the cost of our hedging activities;. • the ability to attract and retain key management and other personnel and develop effective succession plans;. • compliance with a wide variety of health and safety laws and regulations and changes to such laws and regulations;. 18. • disputes, legal proceedings or investigations, whether meritorious or not, with respect to a variety of matters, including matters related to personal injury, employees, taxes, contracts and product liability;. • pursuing growth through acquisitions, including the ability to identify acceptable acquisition candidates, finance and consummate acquisitions on favorable terms and successfully integrate acquired assets or businesses;. • protection of intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, trade secrets and copyrights, from infringement by others and the potential defense of claims, whether meritorious or not, alleging the unauthorized use of the intellectual property of others;. • taxation by multiple jurisdictions and the impact of such taxation on effective tax rate and the amount of taxes paid;. • changes in tax laws and regulations;. • new or modified legislation related to health care;. • compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including the potential impact of compliance failures; and. • failure to meet the expectations of investors, including as a result of factors beyond the control of an individual company."
