[1] "ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS. Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by the factors set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results.. Our future operating results may be impacted by changes in global economic and political conditions.. Our future operating results and liquidity may be impacted by changes in general economic and political conditions which may affect, among other things, the following:. • The availability of credit and our ability to obtain additional or renewed bank financing, the lack of which may limit our ability to invest in capital projects and planned expansions or to fully execute our business strategy;. • Market rates of interest, any increase in which would increase the interest payable on some of our borrowings and adversely impact our cash flow;. • The investment performance of our pension plan, as well as the associated discount rate, any adverse changes in which may result in a deterioration in the funded status of the plan and an increase in required contributions and plan expense;. • The relationship between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, any adverse changes in which could negatively impact our financial results;. • The ability of our customers to pay for products and services on a timely basis, any adverse change in which could negatively impact sales and cash flows and require us to increase our bad debt reserves;. • The volume of orders we receive from our customers, any adverse change in which could result in lower operating profits as well as less absorption of fixed costs due to a decreased business base; and. • The ability of our suppliers to meet our demand requirements, maintain the pricing of their products or continue operations, any of which may require us to find and qualify new suppliers.. While general economic and political conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations to date, there can be no assurance that we will not experience future adverse effects that may be material to our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition, results of operations or our ability to access capital.. Our financial performance is significantly influenced by customer demand for the products we distribute.. The financial performance of our Distribution segment, which generated approximately 59.9% of our 2017 consolidated net sales and approximately 30.4% of our 2017 operating income before corporate expenses and net gain on sale of assets, is significantly influenced by customer demand for the products we distribute and the services we provide. Consequently, demand for our products and services has been and will continue to be significantly influenced by the same factors that affect demand for and production of our customers' goods and services, including the following:. • the level of industrial production and manufacturing capacity utilization in the markets we serve;. • the economic health of the manufacturing sector of the U.S. economy, as reflected by the Purchasing Managers Index®  reported by the Institute for Supply Management, as an index reading of 50 or more implies an expanding manufacturing economy, while a reading below 50 implies a contracting manufacturing economy;. • the consolidation of certain of our manufacturing customers and the trend of manufacturing operations being moved overseas, which subsequently reduces demand for the products we distribute and the services we provide; and. • the general industrial economy, which in declining conditions may cause reduced demand for industrial output.. Any adverse changes in these and other factors affecting the demand for and production of our customers' goods and materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 10. Our financial performance is also significantly influenced by conditions within the aerospace and defense industries.. The financial performance of our Aerospace segment, which generated approximately 40.1% of our 2017 consolidated net sales and approximately 69.6% of our 2017 operating income before corporate expenses and net gain on sale of assets, is directly tied to economic conditions in the commercial aviation and defense industries.. The commercial aviation industry tends to be cyclical, and capital spending by airlines and aircraft manufacturers may be influenced by a variety of global factors including current and future traffic levels, aircraft fuel pricing, labor issues, competition, the retirement of older aircraft, regulatory changes, terrorism and related safety concerns, general economic conditions, worldwide airline profits and backlog levels.. The defense industry may be influenced by a changing global political environment, changes in U.S. and global defense spending, U.S. foreign policy and the activity level of military flight operations.. Changes to the aerospace and defense industries and any reductions in U.S. defense spending could have a material impact on our current and proposed aerospace programs, which could adversely affect our operating results and future prospects. In addition, changes in economic conditions may cause customers to request that firm orders be rescheduled or canceled, which could put a portion of our backlog at risk.. Furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing new products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when a new product is introduced. A reduction in capital spending in the aviation or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for our products, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance or results of operations.. Our USG programs are subject to unique risks.. We have several significant long-term contracts either directly with the USG or where the USG is the ultimate customer, including the Sikorsky BLACK HAWK cockpit program, the Joint Programmable Fuze (\"JPF\") program, the Bell Helicopter AH-1Z program and the A-10 program. These contracts are subject to unique risks, some of which are beyond our control. Examples of such risks include:. • The USG may modify, curtail or terminate its contracts and subcontracts at its convenience without prior notice, upon payment for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. Modification, curtailment or termination of our major programs or contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. • Our USG business is subject to specific procurement regulations and other requirements. These requirements, although customary in USG contracts, increase our performance and compliance costs. These costs might increase in the future, reducing our margins, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition. Although we have procedures designed to assure compliance with these regulations and requirements, failure to do so under certain circumstances could lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from USG contracting or subcontracting for a period of time and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could adversely impact our reputation and our ability to receive other USG contract awards in the future.. • The costs we incur on our USG contracts, including allocated indirect costs, may be audited by USG representatives. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract would not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed would have to be refunded, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, if any audit were to reveal the existence of improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the USG.. • We are from time to time subject to governmental inquiries and investigations of our business practices due to our participation in domestic and foreign government contracts and programs and our transaction of business domestically and internationally. Adverse findings associated with any such inquiry or investigation could also result in civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with domestic and foreign governments.. 11. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in budgetary priorities of the USG.. Because a significant percentage of our revenue is derived either directly or indirectly from contracts with the USG, changes in federal government budgetary priorities could directly affect our financial performance.  A significant decline in government expenditures, a shift of expenditures away from programs that we support or a change in federal government contracting policies could cause federal government agencies to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts at any time without penalty or not to exercise options to renew contracts.. The cost and effort to start up new aerospace programs could negatively impact our operating results and profits.. The time required and costs incurred to ramp up a new program can be significant and include nonrecurring costs for tooling, first article testing, finalizing drawings and engineering specifications and hiring new employees able to perform the technical work required. New programs can typically involve a greater volume of scrap, higher costs due to inefficiencies, delays in production and learning curves that are often more extended than anticipated, all of which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The ability to obtain and retain product approvals issued by the Federal Aviation Administration (\"FAA\") and any intellectual property claims could adversely affect our Aerospace segment's operating results and profits.. Our Aerospace segment may be impacted by regulations set forth by the FAA to obtain Parts Manufacturer Approvals (\"PMAs\") to design or produce a modification or replacement aircraft part. The loss or suspension of the Company's product and design approvals could negatively impact our operating results and profits. We believe our current design and production processes that are subject to such regulations by the FAA are in compliance; however, there can be no assurance that we will not lose approvals for our products in the future. Additionally, we may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties, including in connection with our PMA business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Competition from domestic and foreign manufacturers may result in the loss of potential contracts and opportunities.. The aerospace markets in which we participate are highly competitive, and we often compete for work not only with large OEMs but also sometimes with our own customers and suppliers. Many of our large customers may choose not to outsource production due to, among other things, their own direct labor and overhead considerations and capacity utilization objectives. This could result in these customers supplying their own products or services and competing directly with us for sales of these products or services, all of which could significantly reduce our revenues.. Our competitors may have more extensive or more specialized engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do in some areas, and we may not have the technology, cost structure, or available resources to effectively compete with them. We believe that developing and maintaining a competitive advantage requires continued investment in product development; engineering; supply chain management; production capabilities, including technology, equipment and facilities; and sales and marketing, and we may not have enough resources to make the necessary investments to do so. Further, our significant customers may attempt to use their position to negotiate price or other concessions for a particular product or service without regard to the terms of an existing contract or the underlying cost of production.. We believe our strategies for our Aerospace segment will allow us to continue to effectively compete for key contracts and customers, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in this market or against such competitors.. 12. We could be negatively impacted by the loss of key suppliers, the lack of product availability or changes in supplier programs.. Our business depends on maintaining a sufficient supply of various products to meet our customers' demands. We have long-standing relationships with key suppliers but these relationships generally are non-exclusive and could be terminated by either party. If we were to lose a key supplier, or were unable to obtain the same levels of deliveries from these suppliers and were unable to supplement those purchases with products obtained from other suppliers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, we rely on foreign and domestic suppliers and commodity markets to secure raw materials used in many of the products we manufacture within our Aerospace segment or sell within our Distribution segment. This exposes us to volatility in the price and availability of raw materials. In some instances, we depend upon a single source of supply. Supply interruptions could arise from shortages of raw materials, labor disputes or weather conditions affecting suppliers' production, transportation disruptions or other reasons beyond our control. Even if we continue with our current supplier relationships, high demand for certain products may result in us being unable to meet our customers' demands, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Additionally, our key suppliers could also increase the pricing of their products, which would negatively affect our operating results if we were not able to pass these price increases through to our customers. We base our supply management process on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. To protect ourselves against such risks, we engage in strategic inventory purchases during the year, negotiate long-term vendor supply agreements and monitor our inventory levels to ensure that we have the appropriate inventory on hand to meet our customers' requirements.. The adoption of new accounting guidance or changes in the interpretations of existing guidance could affect our financial results.. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (\"FASB\") and the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\"). A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, may retroactively affect previously reported results, could cause unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and may require us to make costly changes to our operational processes and accounting systems. In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (\"ASU\") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which supersedes nearly all existing generally accepted accounting principles (\"GAAP\") revenue recognition guidance. The updated standard is effective for us in the first quarter of 2018 and we will transition using the modified retrospective transition method. We have completed our preliminary evaluation of the likely impact of ASU 2014-09 on our consolidated financial statements. For additional information about these matters, please refer to Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our senior credit facility could trigger an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition.. Our senior credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and comply with various operational and other covenants. If we were unable to maintain these ratios and comply with such covenants, we would need to seek relief from our lenders in order to avoid, cure or have waived an event of default under the facility. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain such relief on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise. If an event of default occurs and is not cured or waived, we may not be able to make further borrowings under the credit facility and our lenders could, among other things, cause all outstanding indebtedness under the credit facility to be due and payable immediately. There can be no assurance that our assets or cash flows would be sufficient to provide us with sufficient liquidity to fund outstanding commitments or meet other business requirements or to enable us to fully repay those amounts or that we would be able to refinance or restructure the indebtedness. If, as or when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure the indebtedness outstanding under our senior credit facility, or amend the financial ratios and covenants contained therein, the lenders under our senior credit facility could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets. This, in turn, could result in an event of default under one or more of our other financing agreements, including our convertible notes.. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, certain of our customers require us to deliver standby letters of credit to guarantee our performance under our contractual obligations with them, which are currently issued by certain of our lenders pursuant to our senior credit facility. If we are unable to obtain letters of credit as needed to operate our business as a result of any of the circumstances described above or otherwise, our ability to enter into certain contracts may be adversely affected. Moreover, by their nature, standby letters of credit may be drawn upon by the beneficiaries thereof, which could affect our financial ratios and ability to make additional borrowings. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position or results of operations.. 13. Additional tax exposure and tax law changes could have a material effect on our financial results.. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions. The determination of the Company's provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires judgment and is based on legislative and regulatory structures that exist in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and we are periodically under audit by various tax authorities. We regularly assess the potential outcomes of examinations by tax authorities in determining the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. We are currently under audit by various states for the years 2011 through 2015. Although we do not believe that any material adjustments will result from these audits, the outcome of tax audits cannot be predicted with certainty. Any final assessment resulting from tax audits may result in material changes to our past or future taxable income, tax payable or deferred tax assets and may require us to pay penalties and interest that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Reform\") was signed into law. One of the major provisions in this legislation was a reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018. While this rate reduction will be favorable as it applies to earnings in 2018 and thereafter, the rate change also required a revaluation of our existing net U.S. deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2017. The Company is still evaluating some of the other provisions of Tax Reform, but given the rate reduction, the overall impact of the Tax Reform is expected to be beneficial. For additional information on Tax Reform, please refer to Note 12, Income Taxes, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The value of our deferred tax assets could become impaired, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $19.6 million in net deferred tax assets after valuation allowance. These deferred tax assets can be used to offset taxable income in future periods and reduce income taxes payable in those future periods. Each quarter, we determine the probability of the realization of deferred tax assets, using significant judgments and estimates with respect to, among other things, historical operating results, expectations of future earnings and tax planning strategies. In the event that there is insufficient positive evidence to support the valuation of these assets, we may be required to further adjust the valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets. Such a reduction could result in a material non-cash charge in the period in which the valuation allowance is adjusted and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The freezing of our defined benefit pension plan could trigger a material curtailment adjustment in favor of the USG.. Our defined benefit pension plan was frozen with respect to future benefit accruals effective December 31, 2015. U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standard 413 (\"CAS 413\") requires the Company to determine the USG's share of any resulting pension curtailment adjustment attributable to pension expense charged to Company contracts with the USG, which could result in an amount due to the USG if the plan is determined to be in a surplus position or an amount due to the Company if the plan is determined to be in a deficit position. During the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company accrued a $0.3 million liability representing our estimate of the amount due to the USG based on our pension curtailment adjustment calculation, which was submitted to the USG for review in December 2016.  The Company has maintained its accrual at $0.3 million as of December 31, 2017. There can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. 14. Estimates of future costs for long-term contracts impact our current and future operating results and profits.. We generally recognize sales and gross margin on long-term contracts based on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. This method allows for revenue recognition as our work progresses on a contract and requires that we estimate future revenues and costs over the life of a contract. Revenues are estimated based upon the negotiated contract price, with consideration being given to exercised contract options, change orders and, in some cases, projected customer requirements. Contract costs may be incurred over a period of several years, and the estimation of these costs requires significant judgment based upon the acquired knowledge and experience of program managers, engineers and financial professionals.. Estimated costs are based primarily on anticipated purchase contract terms, historical performance trends, business base and other economic projections. The complexity of certain programs as well as technical risks and the availability of materials and labor resources could affect our ability to accurately estimate future contract costs.  Additional factors that could affect recognition of revenue and gross margin under the percentage-of-completion method include:. • Accounting for initial program costs;. • The effect of nonrecurring work;. • Delayed contract start-up or changes to production schedules;. • Transition of work to or from the customer or other vendors;. • Claims or unapproved change orders;. • Product warranty issues;. • Delayed completion of certain programs for which inventory has been built up;. • Our ability to estimate or control scrap level;. • Accrual of contract losses; and. • Changes in our overhead rates.. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes, it is likely that materially different sales and profit amounts could be recorded if we used different assumptions or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates may adversely affect current and future financial performance. While we perform quarterly reviews of our long-term contracts to address and lessen the effects of these risks, there can be no assurance that we will not make material adjustments to underlying assumptions or estimates relating to one or more long-term contracts that have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may lose money or generate lower than expected profits on our fixed-price contracts.. Our customers set demanding specifications for product performance, reliability and cost. Most of our government contracts and subcontracts provide for a predetermined, fixed price for the products we make regardless of the costs we incur.  Therefore, we must absorb cost overruns, notwithstanding the difficulty of estimating all of the costs we will incur in performing these contracts and in projecting the ultimate level of sales that we may achieve. Our failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately, integrate technical processes effectively or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract may reduce the profitability of a fixed-price contract or cause a loss. While we believe that we have recorded adequate provisions in our financial statements for losses on our fixed-price contracts as required under GAAP, there can be no assurance that our contract loss provisions will be adequate to cover all actual future losses.. 15. The U.S. Navy contract award for the FMU-139 D/B bomb fuze could jeopardize the continued viability and profitability of the Company's FMU-152 A/B bomb fuze program with the U.S. Air Force (\"USAF\").. The Company currently provides the FMU-152 A/B bomb fuze (also referred to as the JPF) to the USAF and twenty-eight other nations, but the U.S. Navy currently utilizes a different fuze - the FMU-139. During 2015, the U.S. Naval Air Systems Command (\"NAVAIR\") solicited proposals for a firm-fixed price production contract to implement improvements to the performance characteristics of the FMU-139 (such improved fuze having been designated the FMU-139 D/B). The USAF has stated that, if and when a contract is awarded and production begins, the funds associated with the FMU-152 A/B will be redirected to the FMU-139 D/B. During the third quarter of 2015, the U.S. Navy awarded the FMU-139 D/B contract to a competitor. In the event that the FMU-139 D/B program proceeds as planned and the USAF redirects the funds associated with the FMU-152 A/B to the FMU-139 D/B, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely impacted. The timing of the impact on our financial statements is dependent on the ability of our competitor to complete the design and qualification phase of the program and other factors. Our competitor has publicly stated that this program will have a 32-month qualification phase, after which production will begin. Due to the complexity of this program, the uncertainty associated with the successful completion of each phase in accordance with the planned schedule and the pending status of the USAF's final decision to redirect funds to the FMU-139 D/B, the timing and magnitude of the impact on the Company's financial statements is not certain.. A failure to develop and retain national accounts at our Distribution segment could adversely impact our financial results.. Companies continue to consolidate their purchases of industrial products through a small number of major distributors or integrated suppliers, rather than a large number of vendors. Our Distribution segment has developed a strategy to compete effectively for national accounts, but we face intensifying competition from our competitors, several of which are larger and have a more extensive geographic footprint.. If we are not awarded additional national accounts in the future, or if existing national account agreements are not renewed, our sales volume could be negatively impacted, which may result in lower gross margins and weaker operating results. Additionally, national accounts may require an increased level of customer service, such as investments in the form of opening new branches to meet our customers' needs. The cost and time associated with these activities could be significant, and if the relationship is not maintained, we ultimately may not be able to generate a return on these investments.. The loss of the Distribution segment's key suppliers with whom we have national reseller agreements and/or national distributor agreements could adversely affect our operating results and profits.. An element of our Distribution segment's strategy is to establish alignment with a single vendor in certain portions of its business. As a result, we currently have distribution rights for certain product lines and depend on these distribution rights as a source of business. Many of these distribution rights are ours pursuant to contracts that are subject to cancellation upon little or no prior notice. Although we believe we could obtain alternate distribution rights in the event of such a cancellation, the termination or limitation by any key supplier of its relationship with the Company could result in a temporary disruption of our business and, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. A decline in sales at our Distribution segment could adversely impact the vendor incentives and rebates we earn from suppliers.. Some of our suppliers offer vendor incentives and rebates that are tied to the amount of product that we purchase.  These incentives and rebates can be market or customer-account specific, or relate to a specified program period. A decline in sales could adversely impact the vendor incentives and rebates we earn from suppliers.. 16. Our information technology systems, processes and sites may suffer interruptions or failures which may affect our ability to conduct our business.. Our information technology systems provide critical data connectivity, information and services for internal and external users. These interactions include, but are not limited to, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, inventory management, shipping products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements and other processes necessary to manage our business. Our computer systems face the threat of unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses, malicious code, organized cyber-attacks and other security problems and system disruptions.. Cyber-attacks are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, destructive malware, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, disruption or denial of service attacks and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential, personal or otherwise protected information and corruption of data, networks or systems. We provide products and services to customers who also face cyber threats. Our products and services may be subject to cyber threats and we may not be able to detect or deter such threats, which could result in losses that could adversely affect our customers and our company. Additionally, we could be impacted by cyber threats in products that we use in our partners' and customers' systems that are used in connection with our business. These events, if not prevented or mitigated, could damage our reputation, require remedial action and lead to loss of business, regulatory actions, potential liability and other financial losses.. We have put in place business continuity plans and security precautions for our critical systems, including a back-up data center. However, if our information technology systems are damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, such as catastrophic events, power outages and security breaches resulting in unauthorized access or cyber-attacks, and our business continuity plans and security precautions do not function effectively on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our operations or the misappropriation of proprietary information, which may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our implementation of enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") systems may adversely affect our business and results of operations or the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting.. We are currently implementing new ERP systems within our Aerospace and Distribution segments. ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system software and implementation activities that take several years. If we do not effectively implement the ERP systems or if the systems do not operate as intended, it could adversely affect our financial reporting systems and our ability to produce financial reports, the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. A failure to maintain effective internal controls could adversely affect our ability to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud.. Our ability to provide assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud depends on effective internal control. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements; therefore, even effective controls can only provide reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If our internal controls were to be compromised, our financial statements could become materially misleading, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Any material weakness could adversely impact investor confidence in the accuracy of our financial statements, affecting our ability to obtain additional financing. This would likely have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and the market value of our stock. Additionally, we would be required to incur costs to make the necessary improvements to our internal control systems.. Although management has assessed our internal control over financial reporting as effective based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations - Integrated Framework, we can give no assurance that material weaknesses will not occur in the future nor that existing controls will continue to be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or ensure fair presentation of our financial statements in the future.. 17. We may make acquisitions or investments in new businesses, products or technologies that involve additional risks, which could disrupt our business or harm our financial condition or results of operations.. As part of our business strategy, we have made, and expect to continue to make, acquisitions of businesses or investments in companies that offer complementary products, services and technologies. Such acquisitions or investments involve a number of risks, including:. • Assimilating operations and products may be unexpectedly difficult;. • Management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns;. • We may enter markets in which we have limited or no direct experience;. • We may lose key employees, customers or vendors of an acquired business;. • We may not be able to achieve the synergies or cost savings we anticipated;. • We may not realize the assigned value of the acquired assets;. • We may experience quality control failures or encounter other customer relationship issues; and. • We may become subject to preexisting liabilities and obligations of the acquired businesses.. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the consideration paid for any future acquisitions could include our stock or require that we incur additional debt and contingent liabilities. As a result, future acquisitions could cause dilution of existing equity interests and earnings per share.. Certain of our operations are conducted through joint ventures, which entail special risks.. The Company has a 49% equity interest in Kineco-Kaman Composites - India Private Limited, a composites manufacturing joint venture located in Goa, India. The Company relies significantly on the services and skills of its joint venture partner to manage and conduct the local business operations of the joint venture and ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. If our joint venture partner fails to perform these functions adequately, it may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, if our joint venture partner fails to honor its financial obligations to commit capital, equity or credit support to the joint venture as a result of financial or other difficulties or for any other reason, the joint venture may be unable to perform contracted services or deliver contracted products unless we provide the necessary capital, equity or credit support.. We may be unable to realize expected benefits from our sales initiatives and cost reduction and restructuring efforts and our profitability may be hurt or business otherwise might be adversely affected.. In both of our segments, we have a number of initiatives to grow sales and win new programs. Additionally, in order to operate more efficiently and control costs, from time to time, we announce restructuring plans, which include workforce reductions as well as facility consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives. These plans are intended to generate operating expense savings through direct cost and indirect overhead expense reductions, as well as other savings. We may undertake further sales growth initiatives workforce reductions or restructuring actions in the future. These types of sales growth initiatives and cost reduction and restructuring activities are complex. If we do not successfully manage our current initiatives and restructuring activities or any other similar activities that we may undertake in the future, expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted. Risks associated with these initiatives, actions and other workforce management issues include political responses to such actions, unforeseen delays in the implementation of anticipated workforce reductions, additional unexpected costs, adverse effects on employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets, whether due to the loss of employees, work stoppages or otherwise, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated sales or cost reductions and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 18. Our financial results of operations could be adversely affected by impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets.. When we acquire a business, we record goodwill equal to the excess of the amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets of the business we acquire. Goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives must be evaluated at least annually for impairment. The specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is generally determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we generally perform our evaluations annually in the fourth quarter, using available forecast information. If at any time we determine an impairment has occurred, we are required to reflect the reduction in value as an expense within operating income, resulting in a reduction of earnings and a corresponding reduction in our net asset value in the period such impairment is identified.. We rely on the experience and expertise of our skilled employees, and must continue to attract and retain qualified technical, marketing and managerial personnel in order to succeed.. Our future success will depend largely upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, operational and financial managers and marketing personnel. There is significant competition for such personnel in the aerospace and distribution industries. We try to ensure that we offer competitive compensation and benefits as well as opportunities for continued development, and we continually strive to recruit and train qualified personnel and retain key employees. There can be no assurance, however, that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to develop new and enhanced products and to continue to grow and operate profitably.. We are subject to litigation, tax, environmental and other legal compliance risks that could adversely affect our operating results.. We are subject to a variety of litigation, tax and legal compliance risks. These risks include, among other things, possible liability relating to contract-related claims, government contracts, product liability matters, personal injuries, intellectual property rights, taxes, environmental matters and compliance with U.S. and foreign export laws, competition laws, laws governing improper business practices and data privacy laws, including the EU-wide General Data Protection Regulation (the \"GDPR\"), which will take effect in May 2018. In the event that we or one of our business units engage in wrongdoing in connection with any of these kinds of matters, we could be subject to significant fines, penalties, repayments, other damages (in certain cases, treble damages), or suspension or debarment from government contracts. Moreover, our failure to comply with applicable export and trade practice laws could result in civil or criminal penalties and suspension or termination of export privileges.. As a global business, we are subject to complex laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. Those laws and regulations may be interpreted in different ways. They may also change from time to time, as may related interpretations and other guidance. Changes in laws or regulations could result in higher expenses and payments, and uncertainty relating to laws or regulations may also affect how we conduct our operations and structure our investments and could limit our ability to enforce our rights. Changes in environmental and climate change laws or regulations, including laws relating to greenhouse gas emissions, could lead to new or additional investment in product designs and could increase environmental compliance expenditures. Changes in climate change concerns, or in the regulation of such concerns, including greenhouse gas emissions, could subject us to additional costs and restrictions, including increased energy and raw material costs.. Our financial results may be adversely affected by the outcome of pending legal proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted. In accordance with GAAP, if a liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time, we make an estimate of material loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment. The accrual of a loss contingency adversely affects our results of operations in the period in which a liability is recognized. This could also have an adverse impact on our cash flows in the period during which damages are paid.. For a discussion of these matters, please refer to Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies, and Note 9, Environmental Costs, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. 19. Regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business.. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions designed to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (\"DRC\") and adjoining countries. In August 2012, the SEC promulgated disclosure and reporting requirements for companies who use conflict minerals in their products. Complying with these disclosure and reporting requirements may require us to incur substantial costs and expenditures to conduct due diligence to determine the sources of conflict minerals used in our products. Moreover, these requirements may result in changes to the sourcing practices of our customers which may require the identification and qualification of alternate sourcing for the components of products we manufacture, which could impact the availability of, or cause increases in the price of, materials used in our products. We may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to verify the origin of conflict minerals used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering \"conflict free\" conflict minerals, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices.. Exports of certain of our products are subject to various export control regulations and authorizations, and we may not be successful in obtaining the necessary U.S. Government approvals and resultant export licenses for proposed sales to certain foreign customers.. We must comply with various laws and regulations relating to the export of our products and technology, including a requirement to obtain the necessary export approvals and/or other licenses or authorizations from the U.S. Government which may entail a congressional notification, before we are permitted to sell certain products and technologies outside of the United States.  We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses or authorizations in a timely manner or at all. Any significant delay in, or impairment of, our ability to sell products or technologies outside of the United States could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our foreign operations require us to comply with a number of United States and international laws and regulations, violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are required to comply with a number of United States and international laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the \"FCPA\"), the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010 (the \"Bribery Act\"), and other similar anticorruption laws and regulations. The FCPA generally prohibits United States companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity or obtain any unfair advantage. Although we have internal controls, procedures and compliance programs to train our employees and agents with respect to compliance with the FCPA and other applicable international laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our policies, procedures and programs will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Allegations of violations of applicable international laws and regulations, including the FCPA and the Bribery Act, may result in internal, independent or government investigations. Violations of the FCPA and other international laws and regulations may lead to severe criminal or civil sanctions and could result in liabilities that have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 20. Economic conditions and regulatory changes leading up to and following the United Kingdom's (\"UK\") likely exit from the European Union (\"EU\") could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have business operations in both the UK and the broader EU. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the UK elected to withdraw from the EU in a national referendum, and in March 2017, the UK gave notice to the EU that it was formally initiating the withdrawal process. The terms of withdrawal and the future relationship between the UK and the EU are currently subject to negotiation, creating significant uncertainty about the future terms of trade and the ongoing relationship between the UK and the EU during any transition period or more permanently. In addition, the UK referendum and withdrawal process have given rise to calls for the governments of other EU member states to consider withdrawal.. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, may have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and could significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. Asset valuations, currency exchange rates and credit ratings may be especially subject to increased market volatility. Lack of clarity about future UK laws and regulations as the UK determines which EU laws to replace or replicate in the course of its withdrawal, including financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, intellectual property rights, supply chain logistics, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, immigration laws and employment laws, could decrease foreign direct investment in the UK, increase costs, depress economic activity and restrict our access to capital. If the UK and the EU are unable to negotiate acceptable withdrawal terms or if other EU member states pursue withdrawal, barrier-free access between the UK and other EU member states or among the European economic area overall could be diminished or eliminated. Any of these factors could have a direct or indirect impact on our business in the UK and EU, our customers and suppliers in the UK and EU and our business outside the UK and EU. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce the price of our common stock.. Our foreign operations present additional risks and uncertainties which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our foreign business operations create additional risks and uncertainties, including the following:. • Longer payment cycles;. • Difficulties in accounts receivable collection, including complexities in documenting letters of credit;. • Changes in regulatory requirements;. • Export restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers;. • Ability to meet offset requirements;. • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;. • Seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world;. • Political or economic instability in the markets we serve;. • Potentially adverse tax consequences; and. • Cultural and legal differences impacting the conduct of business.. Any one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our domestic or international operations, and, consequently, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all significant risk exposures.. We are exposed to risks that are unique to the products and services we provide. While we believe that we maintain adequate insurance for certain risks, insurance cannot be obtained to protect against all risks and liabilities. It is therefore possible that our insurance coverage may not cover all claims or liabilities, and we may be forced to bear substantial unanticipated costs.. Business disruptions could seriously affect our sales and financial condition or increase our costs and expenses.. Our business may be impacted by disruptions including, but not limited to, threats to physical security, information technology attacks or failures, damaging weather or other acts of nature and pandemics or other public health crises. Any of these disruptions could affect our internal operations or services provided to customers, and could impact our sales, increase our expenses or adversely affect our reputation or our stock price. We have developed and are implementing business continuity plans for each of our businesses, in order to mitigate the effects disruptions may have on our financial results.. 21. Our business could be impacted as a result of actions by activist shareholders or others.. We may be subject, from time to time, to legal and business challenges in the operation of our company due to actions instituted by activist shareholders or others. Responding to such actions could be costly and time-consuming, may not align with our business strategies and could divert the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of our business strategies. Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction as a result of shareholder activism may lead to the perception of a change in the direction of the business or other instability and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners and may affect our relationships with vendors, customers and other third parties.. Our revenue, cash flows and quarterly results may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price.. We may in the future experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results attributable to a variety of factors. Such factors include but are not limited to:. • Changes in demand for our products;. • Introduction, enhancement or announcement of products by us or our competitors;. • Market acceptance of our new products;. • The growth rates of certain market segments in which we compete;. • Size, timing and shipment terms of significant orders;. • Difficulties with our technical programs;. • Budgeting cycles of customers;. • Pricing pressures from customers;. • Mix of distribution channels;. • Mix of products and services sold;. • Mix of domestic and international revenues;. • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. • Changes in the level of operating expenses;. • Changes in our sales incentive plans;. • Changes in tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business;. • Inventory obsolescence;. • Accrual of contract losses;. • Fluctuations in oil and utility costs;. • Health care reform;. • Completion or announcement of acquisitions; and. • General economic conditions in regions in which we conduct business.. Most of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term, including costs of personnel and facilities, and are not easily reduced. Thus, an unexpected reduction in our revenue, or failure to achieve an anticipated rate of growth, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors, our stock price may decline.. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. This report contains \"forward-looking statements\" within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements also may be included in other publicly available documents issued by the Company and in oral statements made by our officers and representatives from time to time. These forward-looking statements are intended to provide management's current expectations or plans for our future operating and financial performance, based on assumptions currently believed to be valid. They can be identified by the use of words such as \"anticipate,\" \"intend,\" \"plan,\" \"goal,\" \"seek,\" \"believe,\" \"project,\" \"estimate,\" \"expect,\" \"strategy,\" \"future,\" \"likely,\" \"may,\" \"should,\" \"would,\" \"could,\" \"will\" and other words of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. Examples of forward looking statements include, among others, statements relating to future sales, earnings, cash flows, results of operations, uses of cash and other measures of financial performance.. Because forward-looking statements relate to the future, they are subject to inherent risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the Company's actual results and financial condition to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: (i) changes in domestic and foreign economic and competitive conditions in markets served by the Company, particularly the defense, commercial aviation and industrial production markets; (ii) changes in government and customer priorities and requirements (including cost-cutting initiatives, government and customer shut-downs, the potential deferral of awards, terminations or reductions of expenditures. 22. to respond to the priorities of Congress and the Administration, or budgetary cuts resulting from Congressional actions or automatic sequestration); (iii) changes in geopolitical conditions in countries where the Company does or intends to do business; (iv) the successful conclusion of competitions for government programs (including new, follow-on and successor programs) and thereafter successful contract negotiations with government authorities (both foreign and domestic) for the terms and conditions of the programs; (v) the timely receipt of any necessary export approvals and/or other licenses or authorizations from the U.S. Government; (vi) timely satisfaction or fulfillment of material contractual conditions precedents in customer purchase orders, contracts, or similar arrangements; (vii) the existence of standard government contract provisions permitting renegotiation of terms and termination for the convenience of the government; (viii) the successful resolution of government inquiries or investigations relating to our businesses and programs; (ix) risks and uncertainties associated with the successful implementation and ramp up of significant new programs, including the ability to manufacture the products to the detailed specifications required and recover start-up costs and other investments in the programs; (x) potential difficulties associated with variable acceptance test results, given sensitive production materials and extreme test parameters; (xi) the receipt and successful execution of production orders under the Company's existing U.S. government JPF contract, including the exercise of all contract options and receipt of orders from allied militaries, but excluding any next generation programmable fuze programs, as all have been assumed in connection with goodwill impairment evaluations; (xii) the continued support of the existing K-MAX® helicopter fleet, including sale of existing K-MAX® spare parts inventory and the receipt of orders for new aircraft sufficient to recover our investment in the restart of the K-MAX® production line; (xiii) the accuracy of current cost estimates associated with environmental remediation activities; (xiv) the profitable integration of acquired businesses into the Company's operations; (xv) the ability to implement our ERP systems in a cost-effective and efficient manner, limiting disruption to our business, and allowing us to capture their planned benefits while maintaining an adequate internal control environment; (xvi) changes in supplier sales or vendor incentive policies; (xvii) the effects of price increases or decreases; (xviii) the effects of pension regulations, pension plan assumptions, pension plan asset performance, future contributions and the pension freeze, including the ultimate determination of the U.S. Government's share of any pension curtailment adjustment calculated in accordance with CAS 413; (xix) future levels of indebtedness and capital expenditures; (xx) the continued availability of raw materials and other commodities in adequate supplies and the effect of increased costs for such items; (xxi) the effects of currency exchange rates and foreign competition on future operations; (xxii) changes in laws and regulations, taxes, interest rates, inflation rates and general business conditions; (xxiii) the effects, if any, of the UK's exit from the EU; (xxiv) future repurchases and/or issuances of common stock; (xxv) the occurrence of unanticipated restructuring costs or the failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits from past or future expense reduction actions; and (xxvi) other risks and uncertainties set forth herein.. Any forward-looking information provided in this report should be considered with these factors in mind. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this report."
