[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. Some of the statements in this report and, in particular, statements found in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include statements about our expectations regarding our future operating and performance results, earnings, expenditures and financial condition and liquidity. These statements are often identified by the words \"will,\" \"should,\" \"anticipate,\" \"believe,\" \"expect,\" \"intend,\" \"estimate,\" \"hope,\" or similar expressions. These statements reflect management's current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. There are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control. These factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors described below, as well as various factors related to the Merger, including but not limited to: the ability of KapStone and WestRock to receive the required regulatory approvals for the proposed transaction (and the risk that such approvals may result in the imposition of conditions that could adversely affect the combined company or the expected benefits of the transaction), to receive approval of KapStone's stockholders and to satisfy the other conditions to the closing of the transaction on a timely basis or at all; the occurrence of events that may give rise to a right of one or both of the parties to terminate the Merger Agreement; negative effects of the announcement or the consummation of the transaction on the market price of WestRock's or KapStone's common stock and/or on their respective businesses, financial conditions, results of operations and financial performance; risks relating to the value of the Holdco Common Stock that may be issued in the transaction, significant transaction costs and/or unknown liabilities; the possibility that the anticipated benefits from the proposed transaction cannot be realized in full or at all or may take longer to realize than expected; risks associated with third party contracts containing consent and/or other provisions that may be triggered by the proposed transaction; risks associated with transaction-related litigation; the possibility that costs or difficulties related to the integration of KapStone's operations with those of WestRock will be greater than expected; the outcome of legally required consultation with employees, their works councils or other employee representatives; and the ability of KapStone and the combined company to retain and hire key personnel. There can be no assurance that the proposed transaction or any other transaction described above will in fact be consummated in the manner described or at all.. We face additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial. Should any known or unknown risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. Our actual results, performance, financial condition, liquidity, prospects and opportunities could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements, and accordingly, we can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. In view of these uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly revise any forward looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date hereof, except as required by law or regulation.. Risks associated with our business. We are dependent upon key management executives and other key employees, the loss of whom may adversely impact our business.. We depend on the expertise, experience and continued services of corporate, mill and distribution services management, and other key employees. The loss of such management, or an inability to attract. 16. Table of Contents. or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect our business. There can be no assurance that our salaries and incentive compensation plans will allow us to retain the services of such management and other key employees or hire new key employees. We compete with other businesses for management and other key employees and invest significant resources in training and motivating them. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified employees. The inability to retain or hire qualified personnel at economically reasonable compensation levels would impair our ability to improve our business and result in lower operating results and profitability. In addition, our ability to retain all our employees in order to continue to conduct our business in the ordinary course could be affected due to the proposed merger with WestRock.. We may incur business disruptions.. We take measures to reduce the risks of disruptions at our manufacturing and distribution facilities. However, the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, flood, fire or other unanticipated problems, such as labor difficulties (including work stoppages or strikes), equipment failure or unscheduled maintenance, could cause operational disruptions and could materially adversely affect our business, earnings and cash flows. Any losses due to these events may not be covered by our existing insurance policies or may be subject to certain deductibles.. Our significant indebtedness may adversely affect our financial health.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $1.4 billion of outstanding debt. As a result of the indebtedness, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes may be impaired in the future. The debt could make us vulnerable to economic downturns and may hinder our ability to adjust to rapidly changing market conditions.. A significant portion of our cash flow from operations will be needed to meet the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. The business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable it to repay our indebtedness and to fund other liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements, or to pay dividends on our common stock. The indebtedness incurred by us under our senior credit facility (the \"Credit Facility\") under our Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (as amended, the \"Credit Agreement\") bears interest at variable rates, and therefore if interest rates increase, our debt service requirements would increase. In such case, we may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including the Credit Facility, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot service or refinance our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as suspending the payment of, or reducing the amount of, dividends, selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock, our operations, business and financial condition.. Our Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our liquidity and corporate activities, including our ability to pursue additional acquisitions. Our Credit Facility imposes operating and financial restrictions that limit our ability to:. <U+0095> incur additional indebtedness;    <U+0095> create additional liens on our assets;    <U+0095> make investments;    <U+0095> engage in mergers or acquisitions;    <U+0095> pay dividends; and. 17. Table of Contents. <U+0095> sell all or any substantial part of our assets.. In addition, our Credit Facility also imposes other restrictions on us. Therefore, we would need to seek permission from the lenders in order to engage in certain corporate actions. The lenders' interests may be different from ours, and no assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain the lenders' permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that we believe are in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders.. Our Credit Facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. The failure to maintain the specified ratios could result in an event of default (and prohibit us from borrowing under our revolver under our Credit Facility) if not cured or waived.. In the event of a default under our Credit Agreement, the lenders generally would be able to declare all outstanding indebtedness, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable. In addition, borrowings under the Credit Facility are secured by a first priority lien on substantially all of our assets (other than real estate) and, upon the occurrence and continuation of any event of a default under that facility, the lenders generally would be entitled to seize the collateral. An event of default under any debt instrument, unless cured or waived, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial condition.. We sell some of our products internationally, and, accordingly, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business, by fluctuations in exchange rates and other factors related to our international operations.. Approximately 14 percent of our revenues in 2017 and 2016 were derived from foreign and export sales. Our international operations and activities face increasing exposure to the risks of selling to customers in foreign countries. These factors include:. <U+0095> Changes in foreign currency exchange rates or controls which could adversely affect selling prices for our products and therefore our competitive position in a particular market.    <U+0095> Trade protection measures in favor of local producers of competing products, including government subsidies, tax benefits, trade actions (such as anti-dumping proceedings) and other measures giving local producers a competitive advantage over us.    <U+0095> Changes generally in political, regulatory, social or economic conditions in the countries in which we sell our products.. A stronger U.S. dollar adversely affects our pricing with respect to exports, increases foreign imports of containerboard at relatively lower prices, impacts our U.S. sales, and adversely affects our business and results of operations. These risks could affect the cost of selling our products, our pricing, sales volume and ultimately our financial performance. The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on the Company vary from country to country and are unpredictable.. If we fail to extend or renegotiate the collective bargaining agreements as they expire from time to time, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed.. Most of our hourly paid employees are represented by trade unions. From time to time, we may be party to collective bargaining contracts which apply to approximately 900 employees at various corrugating manufacturing plants, 630 employees at the Longview mill, 560 employees at the North Charleston mill and 310 employees at the Roanoke Rapids mill. No assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate the collective bargaining agreements as they expire from. 18. Table of Contents. time to time. Currently, there is a collective bargaining agreement in effect at the Longview through May 2024, North Charleston through June 2025 and Roanoke Rapids through August 2020.. If we are unable to extend or negotiate new agreements without work stoppages, it could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products and adversely affect our business results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we can give no assurances that prior work stoppages are indicative of the duration and impact on our business or results of operations of any future work stoppage. Furthermore, if a significant number of our remaining employees were to unionize, including in the wake of any future legislation or administrative regulation that makes it easier for employees to unionize, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Any inability to negotiate acceptable new contracts under these collective bargaining arrangements could cause strikes or other work stoppages, and new contracts could result in increased operating costs. If any such strikes or other work stoppages occur, or if additional employees become represented by a union, a disruption of our operations and higher labor costs could result. Labor relations matters affecting our suppliers of products and services could also adversely affect our business from time to time.. We may be required to record a charge to our earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired.. We test for impairment of goodwill annually in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. When events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value for such assets may not be recoverable, we review goodwill for impairment on an interim basis. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances requiring interim testing include a decline in stock price as compared to our book value per share, future cash flows and slower growth rates. In connection with future annual or interim tests, we may be required to record a non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which any impairment of goodwill is determined, which would adversely impact our results of operations.. See Note 2 \"Significant Accounting Policies - Goodwill and Intangible Assets\" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to testing for impairment of goodwill.. Our operations are dependent upon certain supply arrangements for fiber.. We rely on certain supply arrangements to provide us roundwood and woodchips. If one of our suppliers failed to deliver quality roundwood or woodchips in the quantities we require, KapStone's supply may not be adequate to cover customer needs, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We rely on key customers and a loss of one or more of our key customers could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. During the year ended December 31, 2017, no customer accounted for more than 10 percent of consolidated net sales. However, each of our business segments has large customers, the loss of one or more of which could adversely affect the segment's sales and, depending on the significance of the loss, our overall business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In particular, because all of our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments, we regularly bid for new business or for the renewal of existing business and the renewal of business on less favorable terms, may adversely impact our overall business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Our business depends on effective information management systems.. We rely on our enterprise resource planning systems to support such critical business operations as processing sales orders and invoicing, inventory control, purchasing and supply chain management,. 19. Table of Contents. payroll and human resources and financial reporting. We periodically implement upgrades to such systems or migrate one or more of our affiliates, facilities or operations, including acquired businesses and assets, from one system to another. If we are unable to adequately maintain such systems to support our developing business requirements or effectively manage any upgrade or migration, we could encounter difficulties that could have a material adverse impact on our business, internal controls over financial reporting, financial results or our ability to timely and accurately report such results.. We are subject to cyber-security risks related to certain customer, employee, vendor or other company data.. We use information technologies to securely manage operations and various business functions. We rely upon various technologies to process, store and report on our business and interact with customers, vendors and employees. Despite our security design and controls, and those of our third-party providers, we could become subject to cyber-attacks which could result in operational disruptions or the misappropriation of sensitive data. Our ability to plan our operations, source materials, manufacture and ship product, account for orders and interface generally with our customers and vendors could be denied or misused. Likewise, our internal financial reporting system could be compromised. In addition, theft of intellectual property, trade secrets or confidential information about us or our employees, vendors or customers could result from a cyber incident. There can be no assurance that any such disruptions or misappropriations and the resulting repercussions would not be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Environmental regulations and potential environmental liabilities could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and require us to make unexpected capital expenditures.. We are subject to environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the United States and by authorities in Mexico with respect to our Distribution segment operations located in Northern Mexico, including requirements that regulate discharge into the environment, waste management, hazardous substance reporting, remediation of environmental contamination, forestry operations and endangered species habitats. We cannot predict the impact of future environmental laws and regulations (or changes in interpretations of existing environmental laws and regulations), particularly in the areas of emissions, climate control initiatives, Boiler MACT, NAAQSs or enforcement practices, will have on our operations and capital expenditure requirements. Environmental liabilities or new or changed compliance obligations could result in civil or criminal fines or penalties, enforcement actions, or other additional significant costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Due to past history of industrial operations at the Roanoke Rapids mill, North Charleston mill, Longview mill and some of our corrugating manufacturing plants, the possibility of on-site and off-site environmental impact to the soil and groundwater may present a heightened risk of contamination. If we are required to make significant expenditures for remediation, the costs of such efforts may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Risks related to compliance and changes with U.S., international and tax laws, rules and regulations could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Our operations are subject to U.S., foreign and international laws, rules and regulations, including those concerning transportation and safety, the import and export of goods, customs regulations, respect in the work force, payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, anti-kickback and false claims rules, competition, money laundering, and data privacy laws. While we strive to maintain high standards, we cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, or business partners that would violate such laws, rules or regulations. We could incur substantial costs in order to comply with such laws, rules and regulations, or incur substantial fines or sanctions, enforcement actions (including orders limiting our. 20. Table of Contents. operations or requiring corrective measures), and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury or sustain harm to our reputation with customers, suppliers or investors as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, laws, regulations, codes and common law.. Risks related to changes in U.S. and global economic and financial market conditions and social and political change could adversely impact our business and results of operations.. Our businesses may be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control, including general economic and business conditions in the U.S., countries in which we have operation or sell our products or globally, changes in tax laws or tax rates and conditions in the financial services markets, including counterparty risk, insurance carrier risk, rising interest rates, inflation, deflation, fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the U.S. dollar, the impact of a stronger U.S. dollar or U.S social and political change impacting matters such as environmental regulations, non-U.S. trade policies, or other factors, each of which may adversely impact our ability to compete and our business. Macro-economic challenges, including conditions in U.S. and global financial and capital markets, levels of unemployment and the ability of the U.S. and other countries to address their rising debt levels may continue to put pressure on the their respective economies or lead to changes in tax laws or tax rates. Changes in tax laws or tax rates may have a material impact on our future cash taxes, effective tax rate or deferred tax assets and liabilities. Adverse developments in the U.S. and global economy could adversely affect the demand for our products, our manufacturing costs and results of operations. In an inflationary environment, we may not be able to pass along some or all of our increased costs to our customers through increased product pricing, which could adversely impact our business, cash flows and profitability. We are not able to predict with certainty future economic and financial market conditions, and our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected by adverse market conditions.. Our pension costs are subject to a variety of factors and assumptions that could cause these costs to change.. We have a defined benefit pension plan that covers 32 percent of our U.S. employees. Our pension costs are dependent upon a variety of factors and assumptions. Fluctuations in market returns, interest rates, mortality rates, the number of retirees and longer life-expectancy may result in increased pension costs. Similarly, changes in assumptions regarding current discount rates and expected rates of return on plan assets could also change pension costs. Material adverse changes in these factors could have a negative impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. We may not be able to fully compensate for increases in fuel costs.. Volatile fuel prices have a direct impact on our business. The cost of fuel affects the price paid by us for products and raw materials, as well as the costs incurred to produce and deliver products to our customers. Although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers in the past, there is no guarantee that we can continue to do so, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability.. Risks associated with KapStone's common stock. The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile due to certain factors, including, but not limited to: quarterly fluctuations in our financial and operating results; general conditions in the paper and packaging industries; or changes in earnings estimates.. 21. Table of Contents. Our executive officers and directors control approximately 11 percent of our common stock and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote.. At December 31, 2017, our executive officers and directors owned 10.5 million shares of our common stock, or approximately 11 percent of our total outstanding common stock. Accordingly, our named executive officers and directors may have some influence over the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including certain mergers, acquisitions, dispositions, equity issuances and the election of directors. In addition, our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. At the annual meeting, as a consequence of our \"staggered\" board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our officers and directors, because of their ownership position, will have some influence regarding the outcome of the election.. Risks associated with the paper, packaging, forest products and related industries. The paper, packaging, forest products and related industries are highly cyclical. Fluctuations in the prices and cost of production of, and the demand for products could result in smaller profit margins and lower sales volumes.. Historically, economic and market shifts, fluctuations in capacity and changes in foreign currency exchange rates have created cyclical changes in prices, sales volume and margins for products in the paper, packaging, forest products and related industries. The length and magnitude of industry cycles have varied over time and by product, but generally reflect changes in macroeconomic conditions and levels of industry capacity. Most paper products and many wood products used in the packaging industry are commodities that are widely available from many producers. Because commodity products have few distinguishing qualities from producer to producer, competition for these products is based primarily on price, which is determined by supply relative to demand. The overall levels of demand for these commodity products reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in large part on general macroeconomic conditions in North America and regional economic conditions in our markets (including Europe, Asia, and Central and South America), as well as foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, if we fail or delay to make investments in cost-reducing machinery and equipment, our costs of production could be higher as compared to our competitors. The foregoing factors could materially and adversely impact our sales, cash flows, profitability and results of operations.. An increase in the cost or a reduction in the availability of wood fiber, other raw materials, energy and transportation may have an adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations.. Wood fiber, including OCC, is the principal raw material in many parts of the paper and packaging industry. Wood fiber is a commodity, and prices historically have been cyclical and have varied on a regional basis. Environmental litigation and regulatory developments have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in the United States. In addition, future domestic or foreign legislation and litigation concerning the use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest health and the response to and prevention of catastrophic wildfires could also affect timber supplies. Availability of harvested timber may further be limited by fire, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, wind storms, flooding and other causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices. Increasing demand for products packaged in containers with greater (or 100 percent) recycled paper content have and may continue to increase the demand for OCC. In addition, demand for OCC, especially from China, could result in shortages or spikes in the cost of OCC.. Industry supply of commodity paper and wood products is also subject to fluctuation, as changing industry conditions can influence producers to idle or permanently close individual machines or entire. 22. Table of Contents. mills. In addition, to avoid substantial cash costs in connection with idling or closing a mill, some producers will choose to continue to operate at a loss, sometimes even a cash loss, which could prolong weak pricing environments due to oversupply. Oversupply in these markets can also result from producers introducing new capacity in response to favorable short-term pricing trends. Industry supply of commodity papers and wood products is also influenced by overseas production capacity, which has grown in recent years and is expected to continue to grow. Wood fiber pricing is subject to regional market influences, and the cost of wood fiber may increase in particular regions due to market shifts in those regions. In addition, the ability to obtain wood fiber from foreign countries may be impacted by economic, legal and political conditions in those countries as well as transportation difficulties.. Energy is a significant input cost for the paper and packaging industry. Increases in energy prices can be expected to adversely impact businesses. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, coal and fuel oil, have been volatile in recent years. These fluctuations have historically impacted manufacturing costs of companies in the industry, often contributing to reduced margins and increased earnings volatility. Current or future environmental laws, rules and regulations (or their interpretation or changes in their interpretation) that adversely and materially impact electric utilities, including those restricting or limiting \"greenhouse gas\" emissions, are likely to result in increased electric costs and could adversely affect our results of operations, profitability and financial condition. We could be materially adversely impacted by energy supply disruptions or the inability to pass on cost increases to our customers.. Disruptions in transportation could adversely affect our supply or raw materials and/or our ability to distribute our products and could have an adverse effect on our results, profitability and liquidity.. Since we distribute our products by truck, rail, and ship, the reduced availability of those modes of transportation could limit our ability to promptly deliver products to our customers. Reduced availability of transportation could also affect our ability to receive adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner. In addition, the increased costs of transportation may reduce our profitability if we are not able to recover those costs through price increases for our products.. Our business in the past has been and in the future could be adversely affected by strikes and labor renegotiations affecting seaports, labor disputes between railroads or trucking companies and their union employees, or by a work stoppage at one or more seaports, railroads or local trucking companies servicing the areas in which we operate or with whom we do business. The impact of any transportation disruption on our business and operations is unpredictable and will be affected by, among other things, the duration of the disruption, alternative modes of transportation available to us, if any, and the additional costs associated with any alternative transportation method, which costs we may not be able to pass on to our customers.. Certain paper and wood products are vulnerable to long-term declines in demand due to competing technologies or materials.. Companies in the paper and packaging industry are subject to possible declines in demand for their products as the use of alternative materials and technologies grows and the prices of such alternatives become more competitive. Any substantial shift in demand from wood and paper products to competing technologies or materials could result in a material decrease in sales of our products and could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We cannot ensure that any efforts we might undertake to adapt our product offerings to such changes would be successful or not adversely impact our business, results of operations or financial condition.. 23. Table of Contents. Paper and packaging companies are subject to significant environmental regulation and environmental compliance expenditures, as well as other potential environmental liabilities.. Companies in the paper and packaging industry are subject to a wide range of general and industry specific environmental laws and regulations, particularly with respect to air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management, hazardous substance reporting, hazardous substance release notification, site remediation, forestry operations and endangered species habitats. We may incur substantial expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations (or new interpretations thereof), which could adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could expose us to civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including orders limiting operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or other remedial actions.. Related to the Proposed Merger with WestRock. The announcement and pendency of the proposed Merger may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Uncertainty about the effect of the proposed Merger on our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations regardless of whether the Merger is completed. These risks to our business include the following, all of which could be exacerbated by a delay in the completion of the proposed Merger:. <U+0095> the impairment of our ability to attract, retain and motivate our employees, including key personnel;     <U+0095> the diversion of significant management time and resources;    <U+0095> difficulties maintaining relationships with customers, suppliers and other business partners;    <U+0095> delays or deferments of certain business decisions by our customers, suppliers and other business partners;     <U+0095> the inability to pursue alternative business opportunities or make appropriate changes to our business because of requirements in the Merger Agreement that we use our reasonable best efforts to conduct our business in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and not engage in certain activities prior to the completion of the proposed Merger;    <U+0095> litigation relating to the proposed Merger and the costs related thereto; and    <U+0095> the incurrence of significant costs, expenses, and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the proposed Merger.. Failure to consummate the proposed Merger within the expected timeframe or at all could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. There can be no assurance that the proposed Merger will occur. Consummation of the Merger is subject to specified conditions, including:. <U+0095> the affirmative vote in favor of the adoption of the Merger Agreement by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock entitled to vote thereon;    <U+0095> expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period (or extensions thereof) under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (\"HSR Act\");    <U+0095> receipt of required antitrust approvals in Austria, Germany and Mexico;. 24. Table of Contents. <U+0095> the effectiveness of a registration statement on Form S-4 to be filed by Holdco (as the new parent company of WestRock) registering the issuance of the Holdco common stock that may be issued as consideration in the Merger;    <U+0095> the absence of any material law or any order prohibiting the consummation of the Merger;    <U+0095> subject to certain materiality exceptions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of each of the parties to the Merger Agreement, as well as the performance of each party's obligations under the Merger Agreement in all material respects;    <U+0095> each of WestRock and KapStone receiving an opinion from their respective counsel to the effect that the WestRock Merger or the Merger, respectively, should qualify for the applicable intended tax treatment; and    <U+0095> the absence of any order by any governmental entity rendering the Merger illegal, or prohibiting or preventing the Merger; and     <U+0095> other customary closing conditions.. We cannot provide any assurances that these conditions will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all or that the proposed Merger will occur.. In addition, the Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights, including (i) for KapStone and WestRock in the event the Merger is not consummated on or before October 29, 2018 (which deadline may be extended under certain circumstances to April 29, 2019), (ii) for KapStone and WestRock in the event the approval of our stockholders is not obtained or (iii) for KapStone to terminate the Merger Agreement to enter into a definitive written agreement providing for a superior alternative transaction. The conditions to the closing of the Merger may not be satisfied and the Merger Agreement could be terminated. In certain specified circumstances upon termination of the Merger Agreement, we would be required to pay WestRock a termination fee of approximately $105.6 million or reimburse WestRock for its expenses incurred in connection with the Merger in an amount up to $17.6 million. If we are required to make these payments, doing so may materially adversely affect our business, financial conditions and liquidity. In addition, satisfying the conditions to the Merger may take longer, and could cost more, than we and WestRock expect. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination may adversely affect the benefits WestRock's stockholders expect to achieve from the Merger and the trading price of WestRock's common stock. In addition, if the Merger does not close, the attention of our management will have been diverted to the Merger, rather than our operations and pursuit of other opportunities.. There can be no assurance that a remedy will be available to us in the event of a breach of the Merger Agreement by WestRock. Further, any disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the Merger, including any adverse changes in our relationships with our customers, suppliers and employees, could continue or accelerate in the event the transaction is not completed. In addition, if the Merger is not completed, and there are no other parties willing and able to acquire the Company at a price of $35.00 per share or higher, on terms acceptable to us, the share price of our common stock will likely decline to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects an assumption that the Merger will be completed. Also, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the proposed Merger, for which we will have received little or no benefit if the Merger is not completed. Many of these fees and costs will be payable by us even if the Merger is not completed and may relate to activities that we would not have undertaken other than to complete the Merger.. 25. Table of Contents. The number of shares of Holdco Common Stock that will be received per share of our common stock by KapStone stockholders receiving Stock Consideration in the Merger is fixed and will not be adjusted in the event of any change in either our or WestRock's stock prices.. The exchange ratio is fixed in the Merger Agreement and will not be adjusted for changes in the market price of either our common stock or WestRock's common stock, which changes may result from a variety of factors (many of which are beyond our control), including:. <U+0095> changes in our and WestRock's respective businesses, operations, assets, liabilities and prospects;    <U+0095> changes in market assessments of the business, operations, financial position and prospects of either company or the combined company;     <U+0095> market assessments of the likelihood that the Merger will be completed;    <U+0095> interest rates, general market and economic conditions and other factors generally affecting the price of our or WestRock's common stock;     <U+0095> federal, state and local legislation, governmental regulation and legal developments in the businesses in which we and WestRock operate; and     <U+0095> other factors beyond our control, including those described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that may discourage other companies from trying to acquire us.. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that apply both during the pendency of the Merger transaction with WestRock as well as afterward should the Merger Agreement be terminated that may discourage a third party from submitting a business combination proposal to us that might result in greater value to our stockholders than the Merger. These Merger Agreement provisions include a general prohibition on us from soliciting, or, subject to certain exceptions, entering into discussions with any third party regarding any acquisition proposal or offers for competing transactions. In addition, we would be required to pay WestRock a termination fee of approximately $105.6 million or reimburse WestRock for its expenses incurred in connection with the Merger in an amount up to $17.6 million in certain circumstances."
