[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS. Described below are certain risks that we believe apply to our business and the industry in which we operate. You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors in conjunction with other information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other public disclosures. The risks described below highlight potential events, trends or other circumstances that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity or access to sources of financing, and consequently, the market value of our common stock. These risks could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results and from guidance we may provide regarding our expectations of future financial performance. The risks described below are those that we have identified as material and is not an exhaustive list of all the risks we face. There may be others that we have not identified or that we have deemed to be immaterial. All forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf are qualified by the risks described below.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our business is cyclical and depends on spending and well completions by the onshore oil and natural gas industry in the U.S., and the level of such activity is volatile. Our business has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by industry conditions that are beyond our control.. Our business is cyclical, and we depend on the willingness of our customers to make expenditures to explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas from onshore unconventional resources in the U.S. The willingness of our customers to undertake these activities depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including:. • prices, and expectations about future prices, for oil and natural gas;. • domestic and foreign supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas and related products;. • the level of global and domestic oil and natural gas inventories;. • the supply of and demand for hydraulic fracturing and other oilfield services and equipment in the United States;. • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas;. • available pipeline, storage and other transportation capacity;. • lead times associated with acquiring equipment and products and availability of qualified personnel;. • the discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves;. • federal, state and local regulation of hydraulic fracturing and other oilfield service activities, as well as exploration and production activities, including public pressure on governmental bodies and regulatory agencies to regulate our industry;. • the availability of water resources, suitable proppant and chemicals in sufficient quantities for use in hydraulic fracturing fluids;. • geopolitical developments and political instability in oil and natural gas producing countries;. • actions of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (\"OPEC\"), its members and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls;. 13. • advances in exploration, development and production technologies or in technologies affecting energy consumption;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels and energy sources;. • disruptions due to natural disasters, unexpected weather conditions, etc.;. • uncertainty in capital and commodities markets and the ability of oil and natural gas producers to raise equity capital and debt financing; and. • U.S. federal, state and local and non-U.S. governmental regulations and taxes.. The volatility of the oil and natural gas industry and the resulting impact on exploration and production activity could adversely impact the level of drilling and completion activity by some of our customers. This volatility may result in a decline in the demand for our services or adversely affect the price of our services. In addition, material declines in oil and natural gas prices, or drilling or completion activity in the U.S. oil and natural gas shale regions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, a decrease in the development of oil and natural gas reserves in our market areas may also have an adverse impact on our business, even in an environment of strong oil and natural gas prices.. A decline in or substantial volatility of crude oil and natural gas commodity prices could adversely affect the demand for our services.. The demand for our services is substantially influenced by current and anticipated crude oil and natural gas commodity prices and the related level of drilling and completion activity and general production spending in the areas in which we have operations. Volatility or weakness in crude oil and natural gas commodity prices (or the perception that crude oil and natural gas commodity prices will decrease) affects the spending patterns of our customers and the products and services we provide are, to a substantial extent, deferrable in the event oil and natural gas companies reduce capital expenditures. As a result, we may experience lower utilization of, and may be forced to lower our rates for, our equipment and services.. Historical prices for crude oil and natural gas have been extremely volatile and are expected to continue to be volatile. For example, since 1999, oil prices have ranged from as low as approximately $10 per barrel to over $100 per barrel. In recent years, oil and natural gas prices and, therefore, the level of exploration, development and production activity, experienced a sustained decline from the highs in the latter half of 2014 as a result of an increasing global supply of oil and a decision by OPEC to sustain its production levels in spite of the decline in oil prices and slowing economic growth in the Eurozone and China. From late 2014 to second half of 2016, prices. for U.S. oil weakened in response to continued high levels of production by OPEC, a buildup in inventories and lower global demand. OPEC's recent agreement to reduce its oil production has provided upward momentum for oil and natural gas prices, but member nations may opt to not follow this agreement. Although beginning in late 2016 oil prices and natural gas prices have recovered to $60.46 per barrel and $3.69 per MMbtu, respectively, as of December 29, 2017, the volatility of our industry persists.. As a result of the significant decline in the price of oil, beginning in late 2014, E&P companies moved to significantly cut costs, both by decreasing drilling and completion activity and by demanding price concessions from their service providers, including providers of hydraulic fracturing services. In turn, service providers, including hydraulic fracturing service providers, were forced to lower their operating costs and capital expenditures, while continuing to operate their businesses in an extremely competitive environment. Prolonged periods of price instability in the oil and natural gas industry will adversely affect the demand for our products and services and our financial condition, prospects and results of operations.. Additionally, the commercial development of economically viable alternative energy sources (such as wind, solar geothermal, tidal, fuel cells and biofuels) and fuel conservation measures could reduce demand for our services and create downward pressure on the revenue we are able to derive from such services, as they are dependent on oil and natural gas commodity prices.. 14. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the energy services industry.. Risks inherent to our industry can cause personal injury, loss of life, suspension of or impact upon operations, damage to geological formations, damage to facilities, business interruption and damage to, or destruction of, property, equipment and the environment. Such risks may include, but are not limited to:. • equipment defects;. • vehicle accidents;. • explosions and uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids;. • unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressures and industrial accidents;. • blowouts;. • cratering;. • loss of well control;. • collapse of the borehole; and. • damaged or lost drilling equipment.. In addition, our hydraulic fracturing and well completion services could become a source of spills or releases of fluids, including chemicals used during hydraulic fracturing activities, at the site where such services are performed, or could result in the discharge of such fluids into underground formations that were not targeted for fracturing or well completion activities, such as potable aquifers. These risks could expose us to substantial liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, loss of oil and natural gas production, pollution and other environmental damages and could result in a variety of claims, losses and remedial obligations that could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The existence, frequency and severity of such incidents could affect operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. In particular, our customers may elect not to purchase our services if they view our safety record as unacceptable, which could cause us to lose customers and substantial revenue, and any litigation or claims, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation with our customers and the public and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future.. We may be subject to claims for personal injury and property damage, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, prospects and results of operations.. Our services are subject to inherent risks that can cause personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment or the suspension of our operations. Our operations are subject to, and exposed to, employee/employer liabilities and risks such as wrongful termination, discrimination, labor organizing, retaliation claims and general human resource related matters. Litigation arising from operations where our facilities are located, or our services are provided, may cause us to be named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting potentially large claims including claims for exemplary damages. We maintain what we believe is customary and reasonable insurance to protect our business against these potential losses, but such insurance may not be adequate to cover our liabilities, and we are not fully insured against all risks. Further, our insurance has deductibles or self-insured retentions and contains certain coverage exclusions. The current trend in the insurance industry is towards larger deductibles and self-insured retentions. In addition, insurance may not be available in the future at rates that we consider reasonable and commercially justifiable, compelling us to have larger deductibles or self-insured retentions to effectively manage expenses. As a result, we could become subject to material uninsured liabilities or situations where we have high deductibles or self-insured retentions that expose us to liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations.. 15. Litigation and other proceedings could have a negative impact on our business.. The nature of our business makes us susceptible to legal proceedings and governmental audits and investigations from time to time. In addition, during periods of depressed market conditions, we may be subject to an increased risk of our customers, vendors, current and former employees and others initiating legal proceedings against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, any legal proceedings or claims, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively impact our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. See Note (18) Commitments and Contingencies of Part II, \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" for further discussion of our legal and environmental contingencies for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.. Competition within the oilfield services industry may adversely affect our ability to market our services.. The oilfield services industry is highly competitive and fragmented and includes several large companies that compete in many of the markets we serve, as well as numerous small companies that compete with us on a local basis. Our larger competitors' greater resources could allow them to better withstand industry downturns and to compete more effectively on the basis of technology, geographic scope and retained skilled personnel. We believe the principal competitive factors in the market areas we serve are multi-basin service capability, proximity to customers, technical expertise, equipment capacity, work force competency, efficiency, safety records, reputation experience and price. Our operations may be adversely affected if our current competitors or new market entrants introduce new products or services with better features, performance, prices or other characteristics than our products and services or expand into service areas where we operate. Competitive pressures or other factors may also result in significant price competition, particularly during industry downturns, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Significant increases in overall market capacity have previously caused price competition and led to lower pricing and utilization levels for our services.. The competitive environment has intensified since late 2014 as a result of the industry downturn and oversupply of oilfield services. We have seen substantial reductions in the prices we can charge for our services based on reduced demand and resulting overcapacity. Any significant future increase in overall market capacity for completion services could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our assets require significant amounts of capital for maintenance, upgrades and refurbishment and may require significant capital expenditures for new equipment.. Our hydraulic fracturing fleets and other completion service-related equipment require significant capital investment in maintenance, upgrades and refurbishment to maintain their competitiveness. For example, from April 1, 2016 through December 31, 2017, we commissioned 14 hydraulic fracturing fleets to service customers at a total cost to deploy of $29.0 million, including capital expenditures. Our fleets and other equipment typically do not generate revenue while they are undergoing maintenance, refurbishment or upgrades. Any maintenance, upgrade or refurbishment project for our assets could increase our indebtedness or reduce cash available for other opportunities. Further, such projects may require proportionally greater capital investments as a percentage of total asset value, which may make such projects difficult to finance on acceptable terms. To the extent we are unable to fund such projects, we may have less equipment available for service or our equipment may not be attractive to potential or current customers. Additionally, increased demand, competition or advances in technology within our industry may require us to update or replace existing fleets or build or acquire new fleets. For example, between December 8, 2017 and December 10, 2017, we placed orders for an aggregate of approximately 150,000 newbuild hydraulic horsepower representing three additional hydraulic fracturing fleets, with anticipated capital expenditures for the three fleets of approximately $115.0 million. Such demands on our capital or reductions in demand for our hydraulic fracturing fleets and other completion service related equipment and the increase in cost to maintain labor necessary for such maintenance and improvement, in each case, could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity position, financial condition, prospects and results of operations and may increase the cost to make our inactive fleets operational.. 16. Until recently, we were dependent on a few customers in a single industry. The loss of one or more significant customers could adversely affect our financial condition, prospects and results of operations.. Our customers are engaged in the oil and natural gas E&P business in the U.S. Historically, we have been dependent upon a few customers for a significant portion of our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2017, no customer represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2016, three customers, Shell Exploration & Production, XTO Energy and Seneca Resources Corporation, individually represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2015, four customers, EQT Production Company, XTO Energy, Shell Exploration & Production and Southwestern Energy Company, individually represented more than 10% of our consolidated revenue.. Our business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our significant customers ceases to engage us for our services on favorable terms or at all or fails to pay or delays in paying us significant amounts of our outstanding receivables. Although we do have contracts for multiple projects with certain of our customers, most of our services are provided on a project-by-project basis.. Additionally, the E&P industry is characterized by frequent consolidation activity. Changes in ownership of our customers may result in the loss of, or reduction in, business from those customers, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations.. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers could adversely affect our financial results.. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers, many of whose operations are concentrated solely in the domestic E&P industry which, as described above, is subject to volatility and, therefore, credit risk. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully reduce customer credit risk. If we are unable to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers or unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness, any resulting increase in nonpayment or nonperformance by them and our inability to re-market or otherwise use our equipment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and/or results of operations.. Our commitments under supply agreements could exceed our requirements, and our reliance on suppliers exposes us to risks including price, timing of delivery and quality of products and services upon which our business relies.. We have purchase commitments with certain vendors to supply a majority of the proppant used in our operations. Some of these agreements are take-or-pay agreements with minimum purchase obligations. If demand for our hydraulic fracturing services decreases from current levels, demand for the raw materials and products we supply as part of these services will also decrease. If demand decreases enough, we could have contractual minimum commitments that exceed the required amount of goods we need to supply to our customers. In this instance, we could be required to purchase goods that we do not have a present need for, pay for goods that we do not take delivery of or pay prices in excess of market prices at the time of purchase. Additionally, our reliance on outside suppliers for some of the key materials and equipment we use in providing our services involves risks, including limited control over the price, timely delivery availability and quality of such materials or equipment. In addition to continued growth and demand for sand, some transitory factors that also can potentially affect timely delivery and availability of sand include inclement weather, flooding impacts, rail-related output constraints and delays on opening new mine sources.. Unexpected and immediate changes in the availability and pricing of raw materials, or the loss of or interruption in operations of one or more of our suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, prospects and financial condition.. Raw materials essential to our business are normally readily available. However, high levels of demand for raw materials, such as gels, guar, proppant and hydrochloric acid, have triggered constraints in the supply chain of those raw materials and could dramatically increase the prices of such raw materials. For example, during 2012,. 17. companies in our industry experienced a shortage of guar, which is a key ingredient in fracturing fluids. This shortage resulted in an unexpected and immediate increase in the price of guar. During 2008, our industry faced sporadic proppant shortages requiring work stoppages, which adversely impacted the operating results of several competitors. An increase in the cost of proppant as a result of increased demand or a decrease in the number of proppant providers could increase our cost of an essential raw material in hydraulic stimulation and have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, prospects and financial condition. We may not be able to mitigate any future shortages of raw materials.. New technology may cause us to become less competitive.. The oilfield services industry is subject to the introduction of new drilling and completion techniques and services using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent or other intellectual property protections. Although we believe our equipment and processes currently give us a competitive advantage, as competitors and others use or develop new or comparable technologies in the future, we may lose market share or be placed at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we may face competitive pressure to develop, implement or acquire certain new technologies at a substantial cost. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that may allow them to enjoy technological advantages and develop and implement new products on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. We cannot be certain that we will be able to develop and implement new technologies or products on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. Limits on our ability to develop, effectively use and implement new and emerging technologies may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations.. Competition among oilfield service and equipment providers is affected by each provider's reputation for safety and quality.. Our activities are subject to a wide range of national, state and local occupational health and safety laws and regulations. In addition, customers maintain their own compliance and reporting requirements. Failure to comply with these health and safety laws and regulations, or failure to comply with our customers' compliance or reporting requirements, could tarnish our reputation for safety and quality and have a material adverse effect on our competitive position.. Oilfield anti-indemnity provisions enacted by many states may restrict or prohibit a party's indemnification of us.. We typically enter into agreements with our customers governing the provision of our services, which usually include certain indemnification provisions for losses resulting from operations. Such agreements may require each party to indemnify the other against certain claims regardless of the negligence or other fault of the indemnified party; however, many states place limitations on contractual indemnity agreements, particularly agreements that indemnify a party against the consequences of its own negligence. Furthermore, certain states, including Louisiana, New Mexico, Texas and Wyoming, have enacted statutes generally referred to as \"oilfield anti-indemnity acts\" expressly prohibiting certain indemnity agreements contained in or related to oilfield services agreements. Such oilfield anti-indemnity acts may restrict or void a party's indemnification of us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations.. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding issues of health, safety and protection of the environment. Under these laws and regulations, we may become liable for penalties, damages or costs of remediation or other corrective measures. Any changes in laws or government regulations could increase our costs of doing business.. Our operations are subject to stringent federal, state, local and tribal laws and regulations relating to, among other things, protection of natural resources, clean air and drinking water, wetlands, endangered species, greenhouse gasses, nonattainment areas, the environment, health and safety, chemical use and storage, waste management, waste disposal and transportation of waste and other hazardous and nonhazardous materials. Our operations involve risks of environmental liability, including leakage from an operator's casing during our operations or accidental spills onto or into surface or subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater. Some environmental laws and regulations. 18. may impose strict liability, joint and several liability, or both. In some situations, we could be exposed to liability as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, third parties without regard to whether we caused or contributed to the conditions. Additionally, environmental concerns, including clean air, drinking water contamination and seismic activity, have prompted investigations that could lead to the enactment of regulations, limitations, restrictions or moratoria that could potentially have a material adverse impact on our business. Actions arising under these laws and regulations could result in the shutdown of our operations, fines and penalties (administrative, civil or criminal), revocations of permits to conduct business, expenditures for remediation or other corrective measures and/or claims for liability for property damage, exposure to hazardous materials, exposure to hazardous waste, nuisance or personal injuries. Sanctions for noncompliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may also include the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, revocation of permits and temporary or permanent cessation of operations in a particular location and issuance of corrective action orders. Such claims or sanctions and related costs could cause us to incur substantial costs or losses and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations. Additionally, an increase in regulatory requirements, limitations, restrictions or moratoria on oil and natural gas exploration and completion activities at a federal, state or local level could significantly delay or interrupt our operations, limit the amount of work we can perform, increase our costs of compliance, or increase the cost of our services, thereby possibly having a material adverse impact on our financial condition.. If we do not perform in accordance with government, industry, customer or our own health, safety and environmental standards, we could lose business from our customers, many of whom have an increased focus on environmental and safety issues.. We are subject to the EPA, U.S. Department of Transportation, U.S. Nuclear Regulation Commission, OSHA and state regulatory agencies that regulate operations to prevent air, soil and water pollution. The energy extraction sector is one of the sectors designated for increased enforcement by the EPA, which will continue to regulate our industry in the years to come, potentially resulting in additional regulations that could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects or financial condition.. The EPA regulates air emissions from all engines, including off-road diesel engines that are used by us to power equipment in the field. Under these U.S. emission control regulations, we could be limited in the number of certain off-road diesel engines we can purchase. Further, the emission control and fuel quality regulations could result in increased costs.. Laws and regulations protecting the environment generally have become more stringent over time, and we expect them to continue to do so. This could lead to material increases in our costs, and liability exposure, for future environmental compliance and remediation. Additionally, if we expand the size or scope of our operations, we could be subject to existing regulations that are more stringent than the requirements under which we are currently allowed to operate or require additional authorizations to continue operations. Compliance with this additional regulatory burden could increase our operating or other costs.. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could prohibit, restrict or limit hydraulic fracturing operations, could increase our operating costs or could result in the disclosure of proprietary information resulting in competitive harm.. During recent sessions of the U.S. Congress, several pieces of legislation were introduced in the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives for the purpose of amending environmental laws such as the Clean Air Act, the SDWA and the Toxic Substance Control Act with respect to activities associated with extraction and energy production industries, especially the oil and gas industry. Furthermore, various items of legislation and rulemaking have been proposed that would regulate or prevent federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing on federally owned land. Proposed rulemaking from the EPA and OSHA, such as the proposed regulation relating to respirable silica sand, could increase our regulatory requirements, which could increase our costs of compliance or increase the costs of our services, thereby possibly having a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.. 19. If the EPA or another federal or state-level agency asserts jurisdiction over certain aspects of hydraulic fracturing operations, an additional level of regulation established at the federal or state level could lead to operational delays and increase our costs. The EPA recently issued a study of the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater. The EPA report states that there is scientific evidence that hydraulic fracturing activities can impact drinking resources under some circumstances, and identifies certain conditions in which the EPA believes the impact of such activities on drinking water and groundwater can be more frequent or severe. The EPA study could spur further initiatives to regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or otherwise. Many regulatory and legislative bodies routinely evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of laws and regulations affecting the oil and gas industry. As a result, state legislatures, state regulatory agencies and local municipalities may consider legislation, regulations or ordinances, respectively, that could affect all aspects of the oil and natural gas industry and occasionally take action to restrict or further regulate hydraulic fracturing operations. At this time, it is not possible to estimate the potential impact on our business of these state and municipal actions or the enactment of additional federal or state legislation or regulations affecting hydraulic fracturing. Compliance, stricter regulations or the consequences of any failure to comply by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations.. Many states in which we operate require the disclosure of some or all of the chemicals used in our hydraulic fracturing operations. Certain aspects of one or more of these chemicals may be considered proprietary by us or our chemical suppliers. Disclosure of our proprietary chemical information to third parties or to the public, even if inadvertent, could diminish the value of our trade secrets or those of our chemical suppliers and could result in competitive harm to us, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations.. We are also aware that some states, counties and municipalities have enacted or are considering moratoria on hydraulic fracturing. For example, New York and Vermont have banned or are in the process of banning the use of high volume hydraulic fracturing. Alternatively, some municipalities are or have considered zoning and other ordinances, the conditions of which could impose a de facto ban on drilling and/or hydraulic fracturing operations. Further, some states, counties and municipalities are closely examining water use issues, such as permit and disposal options for processed water, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, prospects and results of operations if such additional permitting requirements are imposed upon our industry. Additionally, our business could be affected by a moratorium or increased regulation of companies in our supply chain, such as sand mining by our proppant suppliers, which could limit our access to supplies and increase the costs of our raw materials. At this time, it is not possible to estimate how these various restrictions could affect our ongoing operations. For more information, see \"Item 1. Business - Environmental regulation.\". Existing or future laws and regulations related to greenhouse gases and climate change could have a negative impact on our business and may result in additional compliance obligations with respect to the release, capture and use of carbon dioxide that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition.. Changes in environmental requirements related to greenhouse gases and climate change may negatively impact demand for our services. For example, oil and natural gas exploration and production may decline as a result of environmental requirements, including land use policies responsive to environmental concerns. Federal, state and local agencies have been evaluating climate-related legislation and other regulatory initiatives that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, existing or future laws and regulations related to greenhouse gases and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, could have a negative impact on our business if such laws or regulations reduce demand for oil and natural gas. Likewise, such restrictions may result in additional compliance obligations with respect to the release, capture, sequestration and use of carbon dioxide that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition.. 20. Comprehensive tax reform bills could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. The U.S. government has enacted comprehensive tax legislation that includes significant changes to the taxation of business entities. These changes include, among others, a permanent reduction to the corporate income tax rate, additional limitations on the tax deductibility of interest, immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time and modification or repeal of many business deductions and credits. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of this tax reform is uncertain, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.. We use intellectual property relating to hydraulic fracturing fluids and electronic pump control which is subject to non-exclusive license arrangements and may be licensed to our competitors, which could adversely affect our business.. Trican has licensed our use of certain of its hydraulic fracturing fluids and electronic pump control technology under non-exclusive agreements. Accordingly, Trican has the right to license the same technologies and fracturing fluids that we use in our operations to our competitors, which could adversely affect our business. The rights obtained under this license may be shared with others who have been granted a similar non-exclusive license. As a result, the non-exclusive nature of this license may lead to conflicts between us and others granted similar rights.. If we are unable to fully protect our intellectual property rights, we may suffer a loss in our competitive advantage or market share.. We do not have patents or patent applications relating to many of our key processes and technology. If we are not able to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets, or if our competitors are able to replicate our technology or services, our competitive advantage would be diminished. We also cannot assure you that any patents we may obtain in the future would provide us with any significant commercial benefit or would allow us to prevent our competitors from employing comparable technologies or processes.. We may be subject to interruptions or failures in our information technology systems.. We rely on sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure to support our business, including process control technology. Any of these systems may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, usage errors by employees, computer viruses, cyber-attacks or other security breaches, or similar events. The failure of any of our information technology systems may cause disruptions in our operations, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability.. Changes in transportation regulations may increase our costs and negatively impact our results of operations.. We are subject to various transportation regulations including as a motor carrier by the U.S. Department of Transportation and by various federal, state and tribal agencies, whose regulations include certain permit requirements of highway and safety authorities. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers over our trucking operations, generally governing such matters as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, equipment testing, driver requirements and specifications and insurance requirements. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may impact our operations, such as changes in fuel emissions limits, hours of service regulations that govern the amount of time a driver may drive or work in any specific period and limits on vehicle weight and size. As the federal government continues to develop and propose regulations relating to fuel quality, engine efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions, we may experience an increase in costs related to truck purchases and maintenance, impairment of equipment productivity, a decrease in the residual value of vehicles, unpredictable fluctuations in fuel prices and an increase in operating expenses. Increased truck traffic may contribute to deteriorating road conditions in some areas where our operations are performed. Our operations, including routing and weight restrictions, could be affected by road construction, road repairs, detours and state and local regulations and ordinances restricting access to certain roads. Proposals to increase federal, state or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels, are also made from time to time, and any such increase would increase our operating costs. Also, state and local regulation of permitted routes and times on specific roadways could. 21. adversely affect our operations. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any legislative or regulatory changes or municipal ordinances applicable to our logistics operations will be enacted and to what extent any such legislation or regulations could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations.. We may be unable to employ a sufficient number of key employees, technical personnel and other skilled or qualified workers.. The delivery of our services and products requires personnel with specialized skills and experience who can perform physically demanding work. As a result of the volatility in the energy service industry and the demanding nature of the work, workers may choose to pursue employment with our competitors or in fields that offer a more desirable work environment. Furthermore, we require full compliance with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 and other laws concerning immigration and the hiring of legally documented workers. We recognize that foreign nationals may be a valuable source of talent, but that not all foreign nationals are authorized to work for U.S. companies immediately, without first obtaining a required work authorization from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security or similar government agency. Our ability to be productive and profitable will depend upon our ability to employ and retain skilled workers. In addition, our ability to further expand our operations according to geographic demand for our services depends in part on our ability to relocate or increase the size of our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled workers in our areas of operations can be high, the supply may be limited and we may be unable to relocate our employees from areas of lower utilization to areas of higher demand. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. Further, a significant decrease in the wages paid by us or our competitors as a result of reduced industry demand could result in a reduction of the available skilled labor force, and there is no assurance that the availability of skilled labor will improve following a subsequent increase in demand for our services or an increase in wage rates. If any of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired.. We depend heavily on the efforts of executive officers, managers and other key employees to manage our operations. The unexpected loss or unavailability of key members of management or technical personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations.. Adverse weather conditions could impact demand for our services or materially impact our costs.. Our business could be materially adversely affected by adverse weather conditions. For example, unusually warm winters could adversely affect the demand for our services by decreasing the demand for natural gas. In addition, unusually cold winters and other weather conditions could adversely affect our ability to perform our services due to delays in the delivery of products that we need to provide our services. For example, recent weather-induced rail congestion, combined with flooding impacts at suppliers' mines, has contributed to a reduction in the availability of sands used in our operations. Our operations in arid regions can also be affected by droughts and limited access to water used in our hydraulic fracturing operations. Adverse weather can also directly impede our own operations. Repercussions of adverse weather conditions may include:. • curtailment of services;. • weather-related damage to facilities and equipment, resulting in delays in operations;. • inability to deliver equipment, personnel and products to job sites in accordance with contract schedules; and. • loss of productivity.. Delays in obtaining, or inability to obtain or renew, permits or authorizations by our customers for their operations or by us for our operations could impair our business.. In most states, our customers are required to obtain permits or authorizations from one or more governmental agencies or other third parties to perform drilling and completion activities, including hydraulic. 22. fracturing. Such permits or approvals are typically required by state agencies, but can also be required by federal and local governmental agencies or other third parties. The requirements for such permits or authorizations vary depending on the location where such drilling and completion activities will be conducted. As with most permitting and authorization processes, there is a degree of uncertainty as to whether a permit will be granted, the time it will take for a permit or approval to be issued and the conditions which may be imposed in connection with the granting of the permit. In some jurisdictions, such as New York State and within the jurisdiction of the Delaware River Basin Commission, certain regulatory authorities have delayed or suspended the issuance of permits or authorizations while the potential environmental impacts associated with issuing such permits can be studied and appropriate mitigation measures evaluated. In Texas, rural water districts have begun to impose restrictions on water use and may require permits for water used in drilling and completion activities. Permitting, authorization or renewal delays, the inability to obtain new permits or the revocation of current permits could cause a loss of revenue and potentially have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations.. We are also required to obtain federal, state, local and/or third-party permits and authorizations in some jurisdictions in connection with our wireline services. These permits, when required, impose certain conditions on our operations. Any changes in these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations.. We may not be successful in identifying and making acquisitions.. Part of our strategy to expand our geographic scope and customer relationships, increase our access to technology and to grow our business is dependent on our ability to make acquisitions that result in accretive revenues and earnings. We may be unable to make accretive acquisitions or realize expected benefits of any acquisitions for any of the following reasons:. • failure to identify attractive targets;. • incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets;. • failure to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all;. • restrictions in our debt agreements;. • failure to successfully integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets;. • failure to retain or attract key employees; and. • diversion of management's attention from existing operations or other priorities.. Our acquisition strategy requires that we successfully integrate acquired companies into our business practices as well as our procurement, management and enterprise-wide information technology systems. We may not be successful in implementing our business practices at acquired companies, and our acquisitions could face difficulty in transitioning from their previous information technology systems to our own. Furthermore, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations of management are combined. Any such difficulties, or increased costs associated with such integration, could affect our business, financial performance and operations.. If we are unable to identify, complete and integrate acquisitions, it could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations.. 23. Integrating acquisitions may be time-consuming and create costs that could reduce our net income and cash flows.. Part of our strategy includes pursuing acquisitions that we believe will be accretive to our business. If we consummate an acquisition, the process of integrating the acquired business may be complex and time consuming, may be disruptive to the business and may cause an interruption of, or a distraction of management's attention from, the business as a result of a number of obstacles, including, but not limited to:. • a failure of our due diligence process to identify significant risks or issues;. • the loss of customers of the acquired company or our company;. • negative impact on the brands or banners of the acquired company or our company;. • a failure to maintain or improve the quality of customer service;. • difficulties assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company;. • our inability to retain key personnel of the acquired company;. • the incurrence of unexpected expenses and working capital requirements;. • our inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals, including synergies, for the combined businesses;. • difficulty in maintaining internal controls, procedures and policies;. • mistaken assumptions about the overall costs of equity or debt; and. • unforeseen difficulties operating in new product areas or new geographic areas.. Any of the foregoing obstacles, or a combination of them, could decrease gross profit margins or increase selling, general and administrative expenses in absolute terms and/or as a percentage of net sales, which could in turn negatively impact our net income and cash flows.. We may not be able to consummate acquisitions in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, future acquisitions are accompanied by the risk that the obligations and liabilities of an acquired company may not be adequately reflected in the historical financial statements of that company and the risk that those historical financial statements may be based on assumptions which are incorrect or inconsistent with our assumptions or approach to accounting policies. Any of these material obligations, liabilities or incorrect or inconsistent assumptions could adversely impact our results of operations, prospects and financial condition.. Our historical financial statements may not be indicative of future performance.. In light of the Trican transaction completed in March 2016 and the RockPile Acquisition completed in July 2017, our operating results only reflect the impact of the acquisition for dates after the closing of the transaction, and, therefore, comparisons with prior periods are difficult. As a result, our limited historical financial performance as the owner of the Acquired Trican Operations and RockPile may make it difficult for stockholders to evaluate our business and results of operations to date and to assess our future prospects and viability.. Furthermore, as a result of the implementation of new business initiatives and strategies following the completion of the Trican and RockPile transactions, our historical results of operations are not necessarily indicative of our ongoing operations and the operating results to be expected in the future.. 24. Risks Related to Owning Our Indebtedness. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, we had $275.1 million of debt outstanding, net of discounts and deferred financing costs (not including capital lease obligations). After giving effect to our borrowing base, we had approximately $199.7 million of availability under our  2017 ABL Facility.. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it could:. • adversely affect the market price of our common stock;. • increase our vulnerability to interest rate increases and general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • limit our ability to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, debt service requirements and other general corporate requirements; and. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt.. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt or that we will be able to refinance our debt on commercially reasonable terms. If we were unable to make payments or refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, such as:. • sales of assets;. • sales of equity; or. • negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt.. Our debt instruments may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, our ability to use some of our options.. Despite our significant indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur additional debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the credit agreements that govern the 2017 ABL Facility (as defined herein) and the 2017 Term Loan Facility (as defined herein and, together with the 2017 ABL Facility, the \"Senior Secured Debt Facilities\") permit us to incur additional indebtedness, subject to certain limitations. If new indebtedness is added to our and our subsidiaries' current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face would intensify. See Part II, \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Principal Debt Agreements\" for further details.. 25. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain operating covenants and restrictions that limit our operations and could lead to adverse consequences if we fail to comply with them.. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain certain operating covenants and other restrictions relating to, among other things, limitations on indebtedness (including guarantees of additional indebtedness) and liens, mergers, consolidations and dissolutions, sales of assets, investments and acquisitions, dividends and other restricted payments, repurchase of shares of capital stock and options to purchase shares of capital stock and certain transactions with affiliates. In addition, our Senior Secured Debt Facilities include certain financial covenants.. The restrictions in the agreements governing our indebtedness may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility.. Failure to comply with these financial and operating covenants could result from, among other things, changes in our results of operations, the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the pricing of our products, our success at implementing cost reduction initiatives, our ability to successfully implement our overall business strategy or changes in general economic conditions, which may be beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions could result in a default under the agreements that govern these facilities that would permit the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. If we are unable to repay such amounts, lenders having secured obligations could proceed against the collateral securing these obligations. The collateral includes the capital stock of our domestic subsidiaries and substantially all of our and our subsidiaries' other tangible and intangible assets, subject in each case to certain exceptions. This could have serious consequences on our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or otherwise insolvent. In addition, these covenants may restrict our ability to engage in transactions that we believe would otherwise be in the best interests of our business and stockholders.. See Part II, \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Principal Debt Agreements\" for further details.. Substantially all of our debt is variable rate and increases in interest rates could negatively affect our financing costs and our ability to access capital.. We have exposure to future interest rates based on the variable rate debt under the Senior Secured Debt Facilities and to the extent we raise additional debt in the capital markets to meet maturing debt obligations, to fund our capital expenditures and working capital needs and to finance future acquisitions. Daily working capital requirements are typically financed with operational cash flow and through borrowings under our 2017 ABL Facility, if needed. The interest rate on these borrowing arrangements is generally determined from the inter-bank offering rate at the borrowing date plus a pre-set margin. Although we employ risk management techniques to hedge against interest rate volatility, significant and sustained increases in market interest rates could materially increase our financing costs and negatively impact our reported results.. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the public offering price.. The market price for our common stock is volatile. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including. •  the failure of securities analysts to cover, or continue to cover, our common stock, or changes in financial estimates by analysts;. •  changes in, or investors' perception of, the hydraulic fracturing industry;. 26. •  the activities of competitors;. •  future issuances and sales of our common stock, including in connection with acquisitions;. •  our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;. •  the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;. •  regulatory or legal developments in the United States;. •  litigation involving us, our industry, or both; and. •  general economic conditions.. As a result of these factors, you may not be able to resell your shares of our common stock at or above the offering price. In addition, the stock market often experiences extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.. Keane Investor and our Sponsor control us and may have conflicts of interest with other stockholders in the future.. Keane Investor controls approximately 50.7% of our common stock. As a result, Keane Investor is able to control the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. Seven of our 12 directors are employees of, appointees of, or advisors to, members of Cerberus, as described under Part III, \"Item 10. Directors, Officers and Corporate Governance.\" Cerberus, through Keane Investor, will also have sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. The interests of Cerberus may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Additionally, Cerberus is in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Cerberus may also pursue, for its own members' accounts, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as Cerberus continues to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock through Keane Investor, Cerberus will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions.. We are restricted from competing with Trican in the oilfield services business in Canada, which may adversely affect our access to, or our ability to expand within, the Canadian market.. We agreed to a non-competition provision with Trican as part our acquisition of the Acquired Trican Operations, pursuant to which, subject to certain limited exceptions, we may not compete, directly or indirectly, with Trican in Canada in the oilfield services business through March 16, 2018. Subject to certain limited exceptions, we also may not own an interest in any entity that competes directly or indirectly with Trican in Canada, other than with respect to any industrial services or completion tools business or certain interests in companies with limited revenues derived from Canadian operations. These restrictions may adversely affect our access to or ability to expand within the Canadian market. Additionally, Trican has an ownership interest in Keane Investor, and conflicts of interest may therefore arise between Trican and our other shareholders relating to opportunities to enter into or expand within the Canadian oilfield business.. 27. We will continue to incur increased costs as a result of becoming a publicly traded company.. As a newly public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and the rules and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\"). Being subject to these rules and regulations will result in additional legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, will make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and may also place significant strain on management, systems and resources.. These laws and regulations also could make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or our board committees or as our executive officers. Furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our common stock, fines, sanctions and other regulatory actions and potentially civil litigation.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.. Keane Investor controls a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE rules. Under the NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including:. •    the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors;. •    the requirement that we have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and. •    the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities.. We currently utilize, and intend to continue to utilize these exemptions. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors nor do our nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements.. Provisions in our charter documents, certain agreements governing our indebtedness, our Stockholders' Agreement and Delaware law could make an acquisition of us more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management, even if beneficial to our stockholders.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that some stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares of our common stock. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, possibly depressing the market price of our common stock.. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace members of our management team. Examples of such provisions are as follows:. •    from and after such date that Keane Investor and its respective Affiliates (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act, or any person who is an express assignee or designee of Keane Investor's respective rights under our. 28. certificate of incorporation (and such assignee's or designee's Affiliates) (of these entities, the entity that is the beneficial owner of the largest number of shares is referred to as the \"Designated Controlling Stockholder\") ceases to own, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the then-outstanding shares of our common stock (the \"50% Trigger Date\"), the authorized number of our directors may be increased or decreased only by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the then-outstanding shares of our common stock or by resolution of our board of directors;. •    prior to the 50% Trigger Date, only our board of directors and the Designated Controlling Stockholder are expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws and, from and after the 50% Trigger Date, our stockholders may only amend our bylaws with the approval of at least two-thirds of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote;. •    from and after the 50% Trigger Date, the manner in which stockholders can remove directors from the board will be limited;. •    from and after the 50% Trigger Date, stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and actions by our stockholders by written consent will be prohibited;. •    from and after such date that Keane Investor and its respective Affiliates (or any person who is an express assignee or designee of Keane Investor's respective rights under our certificate of incorporation (and such assignee's or designee's Affiliates)) ceases to own, in the aggregate, at least 35% of the then-outstanding shares of our common stock (the \"35% Trigger Date\"), advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings and nominations to our board of directors will be established;. •    limits on who may call stockholder meetings;. •    requirements on any stockholder (or group of stockholders acting in concert), other than, prior to the 35% Trigger Date, the Designated Controlling Stockholder, who seeks to transact business at a meeting or nominate directors for election to submit a list of derivative interests in any of our company's securities, including any short interests and synthetic equity interests held by such proposing stockholder;. •    requirements on any stockholder (or group of stockholders acting in concert) who seeks to nominate directors for election to submit a list of \"related party transactions\" with the proposed nominee(s) (as if such nominating person were a registrant pursuant to Item 404 of Regulation S-K, and the proposed nominee was an executive officer or director of the \"registrant\"); and. •    our board of directors is authorized to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a \"poison pill\" that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined by our board of directors at the time of issuance or fixed by resolution without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and, therefore, could reduce the value of our common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock could delay, discourage, prevent or make it more difficult or costly to acquire or effect a change in control, thereby preserving the current stockholders' control.. In addition, under the agreements governing the Senior Secured Debt Facilities, a change in control may lead the lenders and/or holders to exercise remedies such as acceleration of the obligations thereunder, termination of their commitments to fund additional advances and collection against the collateral securing such obligations.. Pursuant to a limited liability company agreement entered into by Cerberus and certain other entities and individuals who agreed to co-invest with Cerberus through Keane Investor (the \"Keane Investor LLC Agreement\"),. 29. such appointees shall be selected by Keane Investor's board of managers so long as Keane is a controlled company under the applicable rules of the NYSE. See Part III, \"Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related-Party Transactions and Director Independence - Keane Investor Limited Liability Company Agreement.\". Our Stockholders' Agreement (as defined herein) provides that, except as otherwise required by applicable law, from the date on which (a) Keane is no longer a controlled company under the applicable rules of the NYSE but prior to the 35% Trigger Date, Keane Investor has the right to designate a number of individuals who satisfy the Director Requirements (as defined herein) equal to one director fewer than 50% of our board of directors at any time and shall cause its directors appointed to our board of directors to vote in favor of maintaining an 11-person board of directors unless the management board of Keane Investor otherwise agrees by the affirmative vote of 80% of the management board of Keane Investor; (b) a Holder (as defined herein) has beneficial ownership of at least 20% but less than 35% of our outstanding common stock, the Holder will have the right to designate a number of individuals who satisfy the Director Requirements equal to the greater of three or 25% of the size of our board of directors at any time (rounded up to the next whole number); (c) a Holder has beneficial ownership of at least 15% but less than 20% of our outstanding common stock, the Holder will have the right to designate the greater of two or 15% of the size of our board of directors at any time (rounded up to the next whole number); and (d) a Holder has beneficial ownership of at least 10% but less than 15% of our outstanding common stock, it will have the right to designate one individual who satisfies the Director Requirements. The ability of Keane Investor or a Holder to appoint one or more directors could make an acquisition of us more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management, even if beneficial to our stockholders.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees.. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for: (a) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (b) any action asserting a claim for breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders; (c) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\"), our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws; or (d) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock is deemed to have received notice of and consented to the foregoing provisions. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds more favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find this choice of forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations.. If a substantial number of shares becomes available for sale and are sold in a short period of time, the market price of our common stock could decline and our stockholders may be diluted.. If Keane Investor, WDE RockPile Aggregate, LLC and three other individuals who acquired shares of our common stock in the RockPile acquisition (together with WDE RockPile Aggregate, LLC, the \"RockPile Holders\") sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decrease. The perception in the public market that Keane Investor or the RockPile Holders might sell shares of common stock could also create a perceived overhang and depress our market price. 112,243,769 shares of common stock are outstanding of which 65,579,625 shares are held by Keane Investor and the RockPile Holders.. Keane Investor and our executive officers and directors, but not the RockPile Holders, have previously agreed with certain underwriters to a \"lock-up\" period, meaning that such parties may not, subject to certain exceptions, sell any of their existing shares of our common stock without the prior written consent of representatives of the underwriters until at least April 17, 2018. When the lock-up agreements expire, these shares will become. 30. eligible for sale, The market price for shares of our common stock may drop when the restrictions on resale by Keane Investor lapse.. In addition, Keane Investor and the RockPile Holders have substantial demand and incidental registration rights, as described in Part III, \"Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions - Stockholders' Agreement.\". We may be required to make payments under our contingent value rights agreement with the RockPile Holders.. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Contingent Value Rights Agreement (the \"CVR Agreement\") by and among the Company, the Principal Seller and Permitted Holders (as defined in the CVR Agreement, the \"RockPile Holders\") entered into upon consummation of the RockPile acquisition, the RockPile Holders received non-transferable contingent value rights, which collectively entitle the RockPile Holders to receive from the Company, in certain circumstances, an aggregate payment amount of up to $20.0 million. The aggregate payment amount is contingent upon the difference between $19.00 and the trading price of Keane's common stock in a 30-trading day period prior to April 3, 2018, the nine-month maturity date of the contingent value rights, with such amount to be reduced, in certain circumstances, to the extent the Company shares acquired by the RockPile Holder's in the RockPile acquisition are resold by the RockPile Holders prior to the maturity date. To the extent we are required to make a payment to the RockPile Holders under the CVR Agreement upon maturity, our liquidity may be adversely affected. For additional information on our obligations under the CVR Agreement, see Note (3) Acquisitions of Part II, \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data.\". If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common shares, the market price of our common stock could decline.. The trading market for our common shares likely will be influenced by the research and reports that equity and debt research analysts publish about the industry, us and our business. The market price of our common stock could decline if one or more securities analysts fail to cover our securities, if those analysts downgrade our shares or if those analysts issue a sell recommendation or other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who elect to cover us downgrade our shares, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. Because we do not currently intend to pay dividends, our stockholders may not receive any return on investment unless they sell their common stock for a price greater than that which they paid for it.. We do not currently intend to pay dividends, and our stockholders will not be guaranteed, or have contractual or other rights, to receive dividends. Our board of directors may, in its discretion, modify or repeal our dividend policy. The declaration and payment of dividends depends on various factors, including: our net income, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors.. In addition, we are a holding company that does not conduct any business operations of our own. As a result, we are dependent upon cash dividends and distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries to make dividend payments. Our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends is restricted by agreements governing their debt instruments, and may be restricted by agreements governing any of our subsidiaries' future indebtedness. Furthermore, our subsidiaries are permitted under the terms of their debt agreements to incur additional indebtedness that may severely restrict or prohibit the payment of dividends. See Part II, \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". Under the DGCL, our board of directors may not authorize payment of a dividend unless it is either paid out of our surplus, as calculated in accordance with the DGCL, or if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of our net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year.. 31. Our stockholders may be diluted by the future issuance of additional common stock in connection with our equity incentive plans, acquisitions or otherwise.. We have 387,756,231 shares of common stock authorized but unissued under our certificate of incorporation. We will be authorized to issue these shares of common stock and options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to common stock for consideration and on terms and conditions established by our board of directors in its sole discretion, whether in connection with acquisitions or otherwise. We have reserved 7,734,601 shares of our common stock for awards that may be issued under our Equity and Incentive Award Plan. Any common stock that we issue, including under our Equity and Incentive Award Plan or other equity incentive plans that we may adopt in the future, may result in additional dilution to our stockholders.. In the future, we may also issue our securities, including shares of our common stock, in connection with investments or acquisitions. We regularly evaluate potential acquisition opportunities, including ones that would be significant to us, and we are currently participating in processes regarding several potential acquisition opportunities, including ones that would be significant to us. We cannot predict the timing of any contemplated transactions, and none are currently probable, but any pending transaction could be entered into as soon as shortly after the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The number of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then-outstanding shares of common stock. Any issuance of additional securities in connection with investments or acquisitions may result in additional dilution to our stockholders.. 32"
