[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a summary of what management currently believes to be the material risks related to an investment in the Company's securities.. Changes in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.. We derive our income mainly from the difference or \"spread\" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the larger the spread, the more we earn. When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in our spread and can adversely affect our income.. From an interest rate risk perspective, we have generally been liability sensitive, which indicates that liabilities generally re-price faster than assets.. In response to negative economic developments, the Federal Reserve Board's Open Market Committee steadily reduced its federal funds rate target from 5.25% in September 2007 to between 0.00% and 0.25% currently, which has had the effect of reducing our cost of funds. Given our historic liability sensitivity, the decline in our cost of funds initially outpaced the decline in yield on our earning assets thereby having a positive impact on our net interest rate spread and net interest margin during the years preceding fiscal 2012. However, from fiscal 2012 through fiscal 2014, the rate of reduction in our cost of interest-bearing liabilities slowed in relation to the continuing decline in the yield on our interest-earning assets. Consequently, our net interest rate spread decreased by two basis points to 2.32% for the year ended June 30, 2014 from 2.34% for the year ended June 30, 2013. Our net interest margin declined six basis points to 2.44% for the year ended June 30, 2014 from 2.50% for the year ended June 30, 2013. Our net interest spread declined 12 basis points during fiscal 2013 from 2.46% for the preceding fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. Our net interest margin declined an additional 15 basis points during fiscal 2013 from 2.65% for the preceding fiscal year ended June 30, 2012.. We continue to be at risk of additional reductions in our net interest rate spread and net interest margin resulting from further declines in our yield on interest-earning assets that may outpace any subsequent reductions in our cost of funds. In particular, our ability to further reduce the cost of our interest-bearing deposits is increasingly limited given that most deposit offering rates are already well below 1.00% at June 30, 2014. Moreover, our liability sensitivity may adversely affect net income in the future when market interest rates ultimately increase from historical lows and our cost of interest-bearing liabilities rises faster than our yield on interest-earning assets.. Interest rates also affect how much money we lend. For example, when interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases and loan originations tend to decrease. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and securities. A reduction in interest rates generally results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing cost. This causes reinvestment risk, because we generally are not able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities.. Changes in market interest rates could also reduce the value of our interest-earning assets including, but not limited to, our securities portfolio. In particular, the unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive income which is a component of stockholders' equity. As such, declines in the fair value of such securities resulting from increases in market interest rates may adversely affect stockholders' equity.. 65. Table of Contents. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease.. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the required amount of the allowance for loan losses, we evaluate certain loans individually and establish loan loss allowances for specifically identified impairments. For all non-impaired loans, including those not individually reviewed, we estimate losses and establish loan loss allowances based upon historical and environmental loss factors. If the assumptions used in our calculation methodology are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in further additions to our allowance. While our allowance for loan losses was 0.71% of total loans at June 30, 2014, significant additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income.. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. A significant portion of our assets consists of investment securities, which generally have lower yields than loans, and we classify a significant portion of our investment securities as available for sale which creates potential volatility in our equity and may have an adverse impact on our net income.. As of June 30, 2014, our securities portfolio, which includes mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations, totaled $1.36 billion, or 38.7% of our total assets. Investment securities typically have lower yields than loans. For fiscal 2014, the weighted average yield of our investment securities portfolio was 2.08% as compared to 4.31% for our loan portfolio. Accordingly, our net interest margin is lower than it would have been if a higher proportion of our interest-earning assets had been invested in loans. Additionally, $845.1 million, or 62.3% of our investment securities, are classified as available for sale and reported at fair value with unrealized gains or losses excluded from earnings and reported in other comprehensive income which affects our reported equity. Accordingly, given the significant size of the investment securities portfolio classified as available for sale and due to possible mark-to-market adjustments of that portion of the portfolio resulting from market conditions, we may experience greater volatility in the value of reported equity. Moreover, given that we actively manage our investment securities portfolio classified as available for sale, we may sell securities which could result in a realized loss, thereby reducing our net income.. Our increased commercial lending exposes us to additional risk.. Our commercial loans increased to 60.3% of total loans at June 30, 2014 from 21.5% of total loans at June 30, 2010. Our commercial lending operations include commercial mortgages, multi-family loans and other non-residential mortgage loans. We intend to continue increasing our commercial lending as part of our planned transition from a traditional thrift to a full-service community bank. We have also increased our commercial lending staff and are seeking additional commercial lenders to help grow the commercial loan portfolio. Our increased commercial lending, however, exposes us to greater risks than one- to four-family residential lending. Unlike single-family, owner-occupied residential mortgage loans,. 66. Table of Contents. which generally are made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayment from his or her employment and other income and are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable and realizable, the repayment of commercial loans typically is dependent on the successful operation and income stream of the borrower, which can be significantly affected by economic conditions, and are secured, if at all, by collateral that is more difficult to value or sell or by collateral which may depreciate in value. In addition, commercial loans generally carry larger balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers than one- to four-family mortgage loans, which increases the financial impact of a borrower's default.. Our loan portfolio contains a significant portion of loans that are unseasoned. It is difficult to evaluate the future performance of unseasoned loans.. Our net loan portfolio has grown to $1.73 billion at June 30, 2014, from $1.00 billion at June 30, 2010. A portion of this increase is due to increases in commercial real estate and commercial business loans resulting from originations and from purchases of and participations in loans originated by other financial institutions. It is difficult to assess the future performance of these loans recently added to our portfolio because our relatively limited experience with such loans does not provide us with a significant payment history from which to evaluate future collectability. These loans may experience higher delinquency or charge-off levels than our historical loan portfolio experience, which could adversely affect our future performance.. Because we intend to continue to increase our commercial business loan originations, our credit risk will increase.. We intend to increase our originations of commercial business loans, including C&I and SBA loans, which generally have more risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Since repayment of commercial business loans may depend on the successful operation of the borrower's business, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the local economy. Because we plan to continue to increase our originations of these loans, it may be necessary to increase the level of our allowance for loan losses because of the increased risk characteristics associated with these types of loans. Any such increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings. Additionally, Kearny Bank historically has not had a significant portfolio of commercial business loans.. Kearny Bank's reliance on brokered deposits could adversely affect its liquidity and operating results.. Among other sources of funds, Kearny Bank relies on brokered deposits to provide funds with which to make loans and provide for other liquidity needs. On June 30, 2014, brokered deposits totaled $232.0 million, or approximately 9.7% of total deposits. Kearny Bank's primary source for brokered money market deposits is the Promontory Interfinancial Network's (\"Promontory\") Insured Network Deposits (\"IND\"), a brokered deposit network that is sourced by Promontory from large retail and institutional brokerage firms whose individual clients seek to have a portion of their investments held in interest-bearing accounts at FDIC-insured institutions. Our Promontory IND deposits totaled $213.5 million at June 30, 2014. These funds were augmented by a small portfolio of longer-term, brokered certificates of deposit acquired during fiscal 2014 which totaled approximately $18.5 million at June 30, 2014.. Generally brokered deposits may not be as stable as other types of deposits. In the future, those depositors may not replace their brokered deposits with us as they mature, or we may have to pay a higher. 67. Table of Contents. rate of interest to keep those deposits or to replace them with other deposits or other sources of funds. Not being able to maintain or replace those deposits as they mature would adversely affect our liquidity. Paying higher deposit rates to maintain or replace brokered deposits would adversely affect our net interest margin and operating results.. We may be required to record additional impairment charges with respect to our investment securities portfolio.. We review our securities portfolio at the end of each quarter to determine whether the fair value is below the current carrying value. When the fair value of any of our investment securities has declined below its carrying value, we are required to assess whether the impairment is other than temporary. If we conclude that the impairment is other than temporary, we are required to write down the value of that security. The \"credit-related\" portion of the impairment is recognized through earnings whereas the \"noncredit-related\" portion is generally recognized through other comprehensive income in the circumstances where the future sale of the security is unlikely.. At June 30, 2014, we had investment securities with fair values of approximately $1.35 billion on which we had approximately $14.3 million in gross unrealized losses. All unrealized losses on investment securities at June 30, 2014 represented temporary impairments of value. However, if changes in the expected cash flows of these securities and/or prolonged price declines result in our concluding in future periods that the impairment of these securities is other than temporary, we will be required to record an impairment charge against income equal to the credit-related impairment.. Our investments in corporate and municipal debt securities and collateralized loan obligations expose us to additional credit risks.. The composition and allocation of our investment portfolio has historically emphasized U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities and U.S. agency debentures. While such assets remain a significant component of our investment portfolio at June 30, 2014, recent enhancements to our investment policies, strategies and infrastructure have enabled us to diversify the composition and allocation of our securities portfolio. Such diversification has included investing in bank-qualified municipal obligations, bonds issued by financial institutions and collateralized loan obligations. Unlike U.S. agency securities, the municipal and corporate debt securities acquired are backed only by the credit of their issuers while investments in collateralized loan obligations generally rely on the structural characteristics of an individual tranche within a larger investment vehicle to protect the investor from credit losses arising from borrowers defaulting on the underlying securitized loans.. While we have invested primarily in investment grade securities, these securities are not backed by the federal government and expose us to a greater degree of credit risk than U.S. agency securities. Any decline in the credit quality of these securities exposes us to the risk that the market value of the securities could decrease which may require us to write down their value and could lead to a possible default in payment.. We hold certain intangible assets that could be classified as impaired in the future. If these assets are considered to be either partially or fully impaired in the future, our earnings would decrease.. At June 30, 2014, we had approximately $109.4 million in intangible assets on our balance sheet comprising $108.6 million of goodwill and $790,000 of core deposit intangibles. We are required to periodically test our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for impairment. The impairment testing process considers a variety of factors, including the current market price of our common stock, the. 68. Table of Contents. estimated net present value of our assets and liabilities, and information concerning the terminal valuation of similarly situated insured depository institutions. If an impairment determination is made in a future reporting period, our earnings and the book value of these intangible assets will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. If an impairment loss is recorded, it will have little or no impact on the tangible book value of our common stock or our regulatory capital levels, but recognition of such an impairment loss could significantly restrict Kearny Bank's ability to make dividend payments to the parent company and Kearny-Federal's ability to pay dividends to stockholders.. Recently enacted financial reform legislation could substantially increase our compliance burden and costs and necessitate changes in the conduct of our business.. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is having a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act are being implemented over time. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear and may not be known for many years. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. In particular, the following provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, among others, are impacting our operations and activities, both currently and prospectively:. <U+0095>   elimination of the OTS as our primary federal regulator, which requires us to continue adapting to a new regulatory regime;. <U+0095>   weakening of federal preemption standards applicable to Kearny Bank, which exposes us to additional state regulation;. <U+0095>   changes in methodologies for calculating deposit insurance premiums and increases in required deposit insurance fund reserve levels, which could increase our deposit insurance expense;. <U+0095>   application of regulatory capital requirements to Kearny-Federal; and. <U+0095>   imposition of comprehensive, new consumer protection requirements, which could substantially increase our compliance burden and potentially expose us to new liabilities.. Further, we may be required to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and continue to make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act. Failure to comply with the new requirements may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to our investors.. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability.. Competition is intense within the banking and financial services industry in New Jersey and New York. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment. 69. Table of Contents. banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources, higher lending limits and offer services that we do not or cannot provide. This competition makes it more difficult for us to originate new loans and retain and attract new deposits. Price competition for loans may result in originating fewer loans, or earning less on our loans and price competition for deposits may result in a reduction of our deposit base or paying more on our deposits.. Our business is geographically concentrated in New Jersey and New York and a downturn in economic conditions within the region could adversely affect our profitability.. A substantial majority of our loans are to individuals and businesses in New Jersey and New York. The decline in the economy of the region could continue to have an adverse impact on our earnings. We have a significant amount of real estate mortgages, such that continuing decreases in local real estate values may adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which may adversely influence our profitability.. The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and new capital rules is uncertain.. The federal banking agencies have recently adopted proposals that when effective will substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to Kearny-Federal and Kearny Bank. The amendments implement the \"Basel III\" regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The new rules will apply regulatory capital requirements to Kearny-Federal. The amended rules include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which will become effective in January 2015 with certain requirements to be phased in beginning in 2016, and will refine the definition of what constitutes \"capital\" for purposes of calculating those ratios.. The new minimum capital level requirements applicable to Kearny Bank would include: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The amended rules also establish a \"capital conservation buffer\" of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement will be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and will increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions.. The Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will result in generally higher regulatory capital standards. However, it is difficult at this time to predict the precise effect on us. The application of more stringent capital requirements to Kearny-Federal and Kearny Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could further limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares.. 70. Table of Contents. A natural disaster could harm our business.. Natural disasters can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties, reduce or destroy the value of the collateral for our loans and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The occurrence of a natural disaster could result in one or more of the following: (i) an increase in loan delinquencies; (ii) an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; (iii) a decrease in the demand for our products and services; or (iv) a decrease in the value of the collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, the value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage.. Acts of terrorism and other external events could impact our ability to conduct business.. Financial institutions have been, and continue to be, targets of terrorist threats aimed at compromising operating and communication systems and the metropolitan New York area and northern New Jersey remain central targets for potential acts of terrorism. Such events could cause significant damage, impact the stability of our facilities and result in additional expenses, impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, reduce the value of collateral securing repayment of our loans, and result in the loss of revenue. While we have established and regularly test disaster recovery procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition.. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, we face significant operational risks.. We operate in diverse markets and rely on the ability of our employees and systems to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside Kearny-Federal, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, and business continuation and disaster recovery. Insurance coverage may not be available for such losses, or where available, such losses may exceed insurance limits. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, we could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action, and suffer damage to our reputation.. Our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and reducing the potential for significant losses.. Our risk management framework is designed to minimize risk and loss to us. We seek to identify, measure, monitor, report and control our exposure to risk, including strategic, market, liquidity, compliance and operational risks. While we use a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques, these techniques are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown risks. Recent economic conditions and heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry, among other developments, have increased our level of risk. Accordingly, we could suffer losses as a result of our failure to properly anticipate and manage these risks.. 71. Table of Contents. We could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls.. A failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of us. We continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to continually strengthening our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and banking regulations.. Risks associated with system failures, interruptions, or breaches of security could negatively affect our earnings.. Information technology systems are critical to our business. We use various technology systems to manage our customer relationships, general ledger, securities investments, deposits, and loans. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the effect of system failures, interruptions, and security breaches, but such events may still occur or may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition, any compromise of our systems could deter customers from using our products and services. Although we rely on security systems to provide security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from security breaches.. In addition, we outsource a majority of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel.. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business thereby subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value.. We regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur at any time. We would seek acquisition partners that offer us either significant market presence or the potential to expand our market footprint and improve profitability through economies of scale or expanded services.. Future acquisitions of other banks, businesses, or branches may have an adverse effect on our financial results and may involve various other risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things:. <U+0095>   difficulty in estimating the value of the target company;. <U+0095>   payment of a premium over book and market values that may dilute our tangible book value and earnings per share in the short and long term;. 72. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company;. <U+0095>   exposure to potential asset quality problems of the target company;. <U+0095>   potential volatility in reported income associated with goodwill impairment losses;. <U+0095>   difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company;. <U+0095>   inability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits;. <U+0095>   potential disruption to our business;. <U+0095>   potential diversion of our management's time and attention;. <U+0095>   possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; and. <U+0095>   potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company.. Our inability to achieve profitability on new branches may negatively affect our earnings.. We have expanded our presence throughout our market area and we intend to pursue further expansion through de novo branching or the purchase of branches from other financial institutions. The profitability of our expansion strategy will depend on whether the income that we generate from the new branches will offset the increased expenses resulting from operating these branches. We expect that it may take a period of time before these branches can become profitable, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. During this period, the expense of operating these branches may negatively affect our net income."
