[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.. We operate in a highly competitive industry with low barriers to entry and may be unable to compete successfully against existing or new competitors.. The worldwide staffing services market is highly competitive with limited barriers to entry.  We compete in global, national, regional and local markets with full-service and specialized temporary staffing and consulting companies.  While the majority of our competitors are significantly smaller than us, several competitors, including Adecco S.A., Randstad Holding N.V., ManpowerGroup Inc., Allegis Group and Recruit Holdings, are considerably larger than we are and have more substantial marketing and financial resources.  Additionally, the emergence of online staffing platforms or other forms of disintermediation may pose a competitive threat to our services, which operate under a more traditional staffing business model.  Price competition in the staffing industry is intense, particularly for the provision of office clerical and light industrial personnel.  We expect that the level of competition will remain high, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability.. The number of customers distributing their staffing service purchases among a broader group of competitors continues to increase which, in some cases, may make it more difficult for us to obtain new customers, or to retain or maintain our current share of business, with existing customers.  We also face the risk that our current or prospective customers may decide to provide similar services internally.  As a result, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future.. Our business is significantly affected by fluctuations in general economic conditions.. Demand for staffing services is significantly affected by the general level of economic activity and employment in the United States and the other countries in which we operate.  When economic activity increases, temporary employees are often added before full-time employees are hired.  As economic activity slows, however, many companies reduce their use of temporary employees before laying off full-time employees.  Significant swings in economic activity historically have had a disproportionate impact on staffing industry volumes.  We may also experience more competitive pricing pressure and slower customer payments during periods of economic downturn.  A substantial portion of our revenues and earnings are generated by our business operations in the United States.  Any significant economic downturn in the United States or certain other countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Technological advances may significantly disrupt the labor market and weaken demand for human capital at a rapid rate.. Our success is directly dependent on our customers' demands for talent.  As technology continues to evolve, more tasks currently performed by people may be replaced by automation, robotics, machine learning, artificial intelligence and other technological advances outside of our control.  This trend poses a risk to the staffing industry as a whole, particularly in lower-skill job categories that may be more susceptible to such replacement.. We may not achieve the intended effects of our business strategy.. Our business strategy focuses on driving growth in higher margin specialties.  We have made targeted investments, adjusted our operating models and increased the resources necessary for driving sustainable growth within our targeted higher-margin solutions.  If we are unsuccessful in executing our strategy, we may not achieve either our stated goal of strong revenue growth or the intended productivity improvements, which could negatively impact profitability.. We are at risk of damage to our brand, which is important to our success.. Our success depends, in part, on the goodwill associated with our brand.  Because we assign employees to work under the direction and supervision of our customer at work locations not under Kelly's control, we are at risk of our employees engaging in unauthorized conduct that could harm our reputation.  Our Kelly Educational Staffing product is particularly susceptible to this exposure.  An occurrence that damages Kelly's reputation could cause the loss of current and future customers, additional regulatory scrutiny and liability to third parties.. 7. Our intellectual property assets could be infringed upon or compromised, and there are limitations to our ability to protect against such events.. Our success is dependent in part on our proprietary business processes, our intellectual property and our thought leadership.  To protect those rights, we depend upon protections afforded by the laws of the various countries in which we operate, as well as contractual language and our own enforcement initiatives.  These defenses may not be sufficient to fully protect us or to deter infringement or other misappropriation of our trade secrets and other intellectual property.  In addition, third parties may challenge the validity or enforceability of our intellectual property rights.  We also face the risk that third parties may allege that the operation of our business infringes or otherwise misappropriates intellectual property rights that they own or license.  Losses or claims of this nature could cause us to incur significant expense, harm our reputation, reduce our competitive advantages or prevent us from offering certain services or solutions.  The remedies available to us may be limited or leave us without full compensation.. If we fail to successfully develop new service offerings, we may be unable to retain our current customers and gain new customers and our revenues would decline.. The process of developing new service offerings requires accurate anticipation of customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends.  This may require that we make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether these investments will eventually result in service offerings that achieve customer acceptance and generate the revenues required to provide desired returns.  If we fail to accurately anticipate and meet our customers' needs through the development of new service offerings or do not successfully deliver new service offerings, our competitive position could be weakened and that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. As we increasingly offer services outside the realm of traditional staffing, including business process outsourcing, we are exposed to additional risks which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business strategy focuses on growing our outsourcing and consulting business, including business process outsourcing, where we provide operational management of our customers' non-core functions or departments.  This could expose us to certain risks unique to that business, including product liability or product recalls.  Although we have internal vetting processes intended to control such risks, there is no assurance that these processes will be effective.  Additionally, while we maintain insurance in types and amounts we believe are appropriate in light of the aforementioned exposures, there can also be no assurance that such insurance policies will remain available on reasonable terms or be sufficient in amount or scope of coverage.. We are increasingly dependent on third parties for the execution of critical functions.. We do not maintain our own vendor management technology, and we have outsourced certain other critical applications or business processes to external providers, including cloud-based services.  We have elected to enter into supplier partnerships rather than establishing or maintaining our own operations in some of the territories where our customers require our services.  We do not maintain a controlling interest in our expanded staffing joint venture in Asia Pacific (PersolKelly Asia Pacific) and have elected to rely on the joint venture to provide certain back office and administrative services to our GTS operations in the region.  The failure or inability to perform on the part of one or more of these critical suppliers or partners could cause significant disruptions and increased costs.. Past and future acquisitions may not be successful.. From time to time, we acquire and invest in companies throughout the world.  Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including the diversion of management's attention from its existing operations, the failure to retain key personnel or customers of an acquired business, the failure to realize anticipated benefits such as cost savings and revenue enhancements, the potentially substantial transaction costs associated with acquisitions, the assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired business and the inability to successfully integrate the business into our operations.  Potential impairment losses could result if we overpay for an acquisition.  There can be no assurance that any past or future acquired businesses will generate anticipated revenues or earnings.. 8. Investments in equity affiliates expose us to additional risks and uncertainties.. We participate, or may participate in the future, in certain investments in equity affiliates, such as joint ventures or other equity investments with strategic partners, including PersolKelly Asia Pacific.  These arrangements expose us to a number of risks, including the risk that the management of the combined venture may not be able to fulfill their performance obligations under the management agreements or that the joint venture parties may be incapable of providing the required financial support.  Additionally, improper, illegal or unethical actions by the venture management could have a negative impact on the reputation of the venture and our company.. A loss of major customers or a change in such customers' buying behavior could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business strategy is focused on serving large corporate customers through high volume global service agreements.  While our strategy is intended to enable us to increase our revenues and earnings from our major corporate customers, the strategy also exposes us to increased risks arising from the possible loss of major customer accounts.  The deterioration of the financial condition or business prospects of these customers could reduce their need for our services and result in a significant decrease in the revenues and earnings we derive from these customers.  Continuing merger and acquisition activity involving our large corporate customers could put existing business at risk or impose additional pricing pressures.  Since receipts from customers generally lag payroll to temporary employees, the bankruptcy of a major customer could have a material adverse impact on our ability to meet our working capital requirements.  Additionally, most of our customer contracts can be terminated by the customer on short notice without penalty.  This creates uncertainty with respect to the revenues and earnings we may recognize with respect to our customer contracts.. Our business with large customer accounts reflects a market-driven shift in buying behaviors in which reliance on a small number of staffing partners has shifted to reliance upon outsourced workforce solutions.  The movement from single-sourced to competitively sourced staffing contracts may also substantially reduce our future revenues from such customers.  While Kelly has sought to address this trend with the adoption of talent supply chain strategies, including providing CWO services within our GTS segment, we may not be selected or retained as the CWO service provider by our large customers.  This may result in a material decrease in the revenue we derive from providing staffing services to such customers.. Our business with the federal government and government contractors presents additional risk considerations.  We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts.  Failure to meet these obligations could result in civil penalties, fines, suspension of payments, reputational damage, disqualification from doing business with government agencies and other sanctions or adverse consequences.  Government procurement practices may change in ways that impose additional costs or risks upon us or pose a competitive disadvantage.  Our employees may be unable to obtain or retain the security clearances necessary to conduct business under certain contracts, or we could lose or be unable to secure or retain a necessary facility clearance.  Government agencies may temporarily or permanently lose funding for awarded contracts, or there could be delays in the start-up of projects already awarded and funded.. We conduct a significant portion of our operations outside of the United States and we are subject to risks relating to our international business activities, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates and numerous legal and regulatory requirements.. We conduct our business in most major staffing markets throughout the world.  Our operations outside the United States are subject to risks inherent in international business activities, including:. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. • restrictions or limitations on the transfer of funds;. • government intrusions including asset seizures, expropriations or de facto control;. • varying economic and political conditions;. • differences in cultures and business practices;. • differences in employment and tax laws and regulations;. • differences in accounting and reporting requirements;. • differences in labor and market conditions;. • changing and, in some cases, complex or ambiguous laws and regulations; and. • litigation, investigations and claims.. Our operations outside the United States are reported in the applicable local currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements.  Exchange rates for currencies of. 9. these countries may fluctuate in relation to the U.S. dollar and these fluctuations may have an adverse or favorable effect on our operating results when translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars.. Our international operations subject us to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, and other laws and regulations.. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations (\"Anti-Corruption Laws\") prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents.  While we devote substantial resources to our global compliance programs and have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments, our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our policies.  Our failure to comply with Anti-Corruption Laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation.  Operations outside the U.S. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment.  As a result, we may be subject to legal liability and reputational damage.. We depend on our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified permanent full-time employees.. As we aim to expand the number of clients adopting talent supply chain management and other complex solutions in order to support our growth strategy, we are highly reliant on individuals who possess specialized knowledge and skills to lead complex solutions and operations.  There can be no assurance that qualified personnel will continue to be available.  Our success is increasingly dependent on our ability to attract, develop and retain these experts.. We depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified temporary personnel (employed directly by us or through third-party suppliers).. We depend on our ability to attract qualified temporary personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the staffing requirements of our customers.  We must continually evaluate our base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing customer needs.  Competition for individuals with proven professional skills is intense, and demand for these individuals is expected to remain strong for the foreseeable future.  There can be no assurance that qualified personnel will continue to be available in sufficient numbers and on terms of employment acceptable to us and our customers.  Our success is substantially dependent on our ability to recruit and retain qualified temporary personnel.. We may be exposed to employment-related claims and losses, including class action lawsuits and collective actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We employ and assign personnel in the workplaces of other businesses.  The risks of these activities include possible claims relating to:. • discrimination and harassment;. • wrongful termination or retaliation;. • violations of employment rights related to employment screening or privacy issues;. • apportionment between us and our customer of legal obligations as an employer of temporary employees;. • classification of workers as employees or independent contractors;. • employment of unauthorized workers;. • violations of wage and hour requirements;. • retroactive entitlement to employee benefits, including health insurance;. • failure to comply with leave policy requirements; and. • errors and omissions by our temporary employees, particularly for the actions of professionals such as attorneys, accountants, teachers and scientists.. We are also subject to potential risks relating to misuse of customer proprietary information, misappropriation of funds, death or injury to our employees, damage to customer facilities due to negligence of temporary employees, criminal activity and other similar occurrences.  We may incur fines and other losses or negative publicity with respect to these risks.  In addition, these occurrences may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming and expensive.  In the U.S. and certain other countries in which we operate, new employment and labor laws and regulations have been proposed or adopted that may increase the potential exposure of employers to employment-related claims and litigation.  In addition, such laws and regulations are arising with increasing frequency at the state and local level in the U.S. and the resulting inconsistency in such laws and regulations results in additional complexity.  There can be no assurance that the corporate policies and practices we have in place to help reduce our exposure to these risks will be effective or that we will not experience losses as a result of. 10. these risks.  Although we maintain insurance in types and amounts we believe are appropriate in light of the aforementioned exposures, there can also be no assurance that such insurance policies will remain available on reasonable terms or be sufficient in amount or scope of coverage.  Additionally, should we have a material inability to produce records as a consequence of litigation or a government investigation, the cost or consequences of such matters could become much greater.. A failure to maintain the privacy of information entrusted to us could have significant adverse consequences.. In the normal course of business we control, we process or have access to personal information regarding our own employees or employment candidates, as well as that of many of our customers or managed suppliers.  Information concerning our employees and candidates may also reside in systems controlled by third parties for purposes such as employee benefits and payroll administration.  The legal and regulatory environment concerning data privacy is becoming more complex and challenging, and the potential consequences of non-compliance have become more severe.  Any failure to protect such personal information from inappropriate access or disclosure, whether through social engineering or by accident or other cause, could have severe consequences including fines, litigation, regulatory sanctions including loss of our status as a subscriber to the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework, reputational damage and loss of customers or employees.  Although we have a program designed to preserve the privacy of the personal data that we control or process, as well as personal data that we entrust to third parties, there can be no assurance that our program will meet all current and future regulatory requirements, anticipate all potential methods of unauthorized access, or prevent all inappropriate disclosures.  Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all such costs or consequences, and there can be no assurance that any insurance that we now maintain will remain available under acceptable terms.. Cyber attacks or other breaches of network or information technology security could have an adverse effect on our systems, services, reputation and financial results.. We rely upon multiple information technology systems and networks, some of which are web-based or managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities.  Our networks and applications are increasingly accessed from locations and by devices not within our physical control, and the specifics of our technology systems and networks may vary by geographic region.  In the course of ordinary business, we may store or process proprietary or confidential information concerning our business and financial performance and current, past or prospective employees, customers, vendors and managed suppliers.  The secure and consistent operation of these systems, networks and processes is critical to our business operations.  Moreover, our temporary employees may be exposed to, or have access to, similar information in the course of their customer assignments.  We routinely experience cyber attacks, which may include the use of malware, computer viruses, social engineering schemes and other means of attempted disruption or unauthorized access.. The actions we take to reduce the risk of impairments to our operations or systems and breaches of confidential or proprietary data may not be sufficient to prevent or repel future cyber events or other impairments of our networks or information technologies.  An event involving the destruction, modification, accidental or unauthorized release, or theft of sensitive information from systems related to our business, or an attack that results in damage to or unavailability of our key technology systems or those of critical vendors, could result in damage to our reputation, fines, regulatory sanctions or interventions, contractual or financial liabilities, additional compliance and remediation costs, loss of employees or customers, loss of payment card network privileges, operational disruptions and other forms of costs, losses or reimbursements, any of which could materially adversely affect our operations or financial condition.  Our cyber security and business continuity plans may not be effective in anticipating, preventing and effectively responding to all potential cyber risk exposures.  Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all such costs or consequences, and there can be no assurance that any insurance that we now maintain will remain available under acceptable terms.. Damage to our key data centers could affect our ability to sustain critical business applications.. Many business processes critical to our continued operation are housed in our data center situated within the corporate headquarters complex as well as regional data centers in Asia-Pacific and Europe.  Those processes include, but are not limited to, payroll, customer reporting and order management.  While we have taken steps to protect these operations and have developed remote recovery capabilities, the loss of a data center would create a substantial risk of business interruption which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our information technology projects may not yield their intended results.. We have a number of information technology projects in process or in the planning stages, including improvements to applicant onboarding and tracking systems, order management, and improvements to financial processes such as billing and accounts. 11. payable through system consolidation and upgrades.   Although the technology is intended to increase productivity and operating efficiencies, these projects may not yield their intended results.  Any delays in completing, or an inability to successfully complete, these technology initiatives or an inability to achieve the anticipated efficiencies could adversely affect our operations, liquidity and financial condition.  In addition, our information technology investments and strategy may not provide the ability to keep up with evolving industry trends and customer expectations which could weaken our competitive position.  We also do not currently utilize a single enterprise resource planning system, which limits our ability and increases the amount of investment and effort necessary to provide global service integration to our customers.. Failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting.. Failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting.  If our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence.  In addition, if we do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis, which could have a negative effect on our stock price.. Impairment charges relating to our goodwill, intangibles and long-lived assets, including equity method investments, could adversely affect our results of operations.. We regularly monitor our goodwill, long-lived assets and equity method investments for impairment indicators.  In conducting our goodwill impairment testing, we compare the fair value of each of our reporting units with goodwill to the related net book value.  In conducting our impairment analysis of long-lived assets and intangibles, we compare the undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated from the long-lived assets and intangibles to the related net book values.  We review our equity method investment for indicators of impairment on a periodic basis or whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying amount may be other-than-temporarily impaired.  Changes in economic or operating conditions impacting our estimates and assumptions could result in the impairment of our goodwill, intangibles, long-lived assets and equity method investments.   In the event that we determine that there is an impairment, we may be required to record a significant non-cash charge to earnings that could adversely affect our results of operations.. Unexpected changes in claim trends on our workers' compensation, unemployment, disability and medical benefit plans may negatively impact our financial condition.. We self-insure, or otherwise bear financial responsibility for, a significant portion of expected losses under our workers' compensation program, disability and medical benefits claims.  Unexpected changes in claim trends, including the severity and frequency of claims, actuarial estimates and medical cost inflation, could result in costs that are significantly different than initially reported.  If future claims-related liabilities increase due to unforeseen circumstances, or if we must make unfavorable adjustments to accruals for prior accident years, our costs could increase significantly.  In addition, unemployment insurance costs are dependent on benefit claims experience from employees which may vary from current levels and result in increased costs.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase the fees charged to our customers in a timely manner and in a sufficient amount to cover increased costs as a result of any changes in claims-related liabilities.. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which may restrict the types of employment services we are permitted to offer or result in additional or increased taxes, including payroll taxes or other costs that reduce our revenues and earnings.. The temporary employment industry is heavily regulated in many of the countries in which we operate.  Changes in laws or government regulations may result in prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services we are permitted to offer or the imposition of new or additional benefit, licensing or tax requirements that could reduce our revenues and earnings. In particular, we are subject to state unemployment taxes in the U.S., which typically increase during periods of increased levels of unemployment.  We also receive benefits, such as the work opportunity income tax credit in the U.S., that regularly expire and may not be reinstated.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to increase the fees charged to our customers in a timely manner and in a sufficient amount to fully cover increased costs as a result of any changes in laws or government regulations.  Any future changes in laws or government regulations, or interpretations thereof, including additional laws and regulations enacted at a local level may make it more difficult or expensive for us to provide staffing services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 12. Government litigation and regulatory activity relating to competition rules may limit how we structure and market our services.. As a leading staffing and recruiting company, we are closely scrutinized by government agencies under U.S. and foreign competition laws.  An increasing number of governments are regulating competition law activities, leading to increased scrutiny.  Some jurisdictions also allow competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct.. The European Commission and its various competition authorities have targeted industry trade associations in which we participate.  Any government regulatory actions may hamper our ability to provide the cost-effective benefits to consumers and businesses, reducing the attractiveness of our services and the revenue that come from them.  New competition law actions could be initiated.  The outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including:. • We may have to choose between withdrawing certain services from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those services to comply with government rulings, which may entail a delay in a service delivery.. • Adverse rulings may act as precedent in other competition law proceedings.. We may have additional tax or unclaimed property liabilities that exceed our estimates.. We are subject to a multitude of federal, state and local taxes in the jurisdictions we operate in, including the tax provisions of the U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010.  We are also subject to unclaimed or abandoned property (escheat) laws.  Our tax expense could be materially impacted by changes in tax laws in these jurisdictions, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in the mix of income by country.  The demographics of our workforce and the visibility of our industry may make it more likely we become a target of government investigations, and we are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities.  Although we believe our tax and unclaimed property estimates are reasonable, the final determination of audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical tax provisions and accruals.  The results of an audit or litigation could materially harm our business.. Failure to maintain specified financial covenants in our bank credit facilities, or credit market events beyond our control, could adversely restrict our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks, including risk of loss of access to capital markets.. Our bank credit facilities contain covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions.  During 2017, we met all of the covenant requirements.  Our ability to continue to meet these financial covenants, particularly with respect to interest coverage (see Debt footnote in the notes to our consolidated financial statements), may not be assured.  If we default under this or any other of these requirements, the lenders could declare all outstanding borrowings, accrued interest and fees to be due and payable or significantly increase the cost of the facility.  In these circumstances, there can be no assurance that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance this indebtedness at favorable rates or at all.  Events beyond our control could result in the failure of one or more of our banks, reducing our access to liquidity and potentially resulting in reduced financial and operating flexibility.  If broader credit markets were to experience dislocation, our potential access to other funding sources would be limited.. Our controlling stockholder exercises voting control over our company and has the ability to elect or remove from office all of our directors.. Terence E. Adderley, the Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Board of our board of directors, and certain trusts with respect to which he acts as trustee or co-trustee, control approximately 93% of the outstanding shares of Kelly Class B common stock, which is the only class of our common stock entitled to voting rights.  Mr. Adderley is therefore able to exercise voting control with respect to all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election or removal from office of all members of the board of directors.. We are not subject to certain of the listing standards that normally apply to companies whose shares are quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market.. Our Class A and Class B common stock are quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market.  Under the listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Market, we are deemed to be a \"controlled company\" by virtue of the fact that Terence E. Adderley, the Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Board of our board of directors, and certain trusts of which he acts as trustee or co-. 13. trustee have voting power with respect to more than fifty percent of our outstanding voting stock.  A controlled company is not required to have a majority of its board of directors comprised of independent directors.  Director nominees are not required to be selected or recommended for the board's selection by a majority of independent directors or a nominations committee comprised solely of independent directors, nor do the NASDAQ Global Market listing standards require a controlled company to certify the adoption of a formal written charter or board resolution, as applicable, addressing the nominations process.  A controlled company is also exempt from NASDAQ Global Market's requirements regarding the determination of officer compensation by a majority of independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors.  A controlled company is required to have an audit committee composed of at least three directors who are independent as defined under the rules of both the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ Global Market.  The NASDAQ Global Market further requires that all members of the audit committee have the ability to read and understand fundamental financial statements and that at least one member of the audit committee possess financial sophistication.  The independent directors must also meet at least twice a year in meetings at which only they are present.. We currently comply with certain of the listing standards of the NASDAQ Global Market that do not apply to controlled companies.  Our compliance is voluntary, however, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to comply with these standards in the future.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company.. Our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors.  For example, if a potential acquirer were to make a hostile bid for us, the acquirer would not be able to call a special meeting of stockholders to remove our board of directors or act by written consent without a meeting.  The acquirer would also be required to provide advance notice of its proposal to replace directors at any annual meeting, and would not be able to cumulate votes at a meeting, which would require the acquirer to hold more shares to gain representation on the board of directors than if cumulative voting were permitted.. Our board of directors also has the ability to issue additional shares of common stock which could significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer.  In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits mergers and other business combination transactions involving 15 percent or greater stockholders of Delaware corporations unless certain board or stockholder approval requirements are satisfied.  These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation.. Our board of directors could choose not to negotiate with an acquirer that it did not believe was in our strategic interests.  If an acquirer is discouraged from offering to acquire us or prevented from successfully completing a hostile acquisition by these or other measures, our shareholders could lose the opportunity to sell their shares at a favorable price.. The holders of shares of our Class A common stock are not entitled to voting rights.. Under our certificate of incorporation, the holders of shares of our Class A common stock are not entitled to voting rights, except as otherwise required by Delaware law.  As a result, Class A common stock holders do not have the right to vote for the election of directors or in connection with most other matters submitted for the vote of our stockholders.. Our stock price may be subject to significant volatility and could suffer a decline in value.. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant volatility.  We believe that many factors, including several which are beyond our control, have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock.  These include:. • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results;. • announcements of new services by us or our competitors;. • announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions;. • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;. • changes in general economic conditions;. • actual or anticipated changes in laws and government regulations;. • commencement of, or involvement in, litigation;. • any major change in our board or management;. • changes in industry trends or conditions; and. • sales of significant amounts of our common stock or other securities in the market.. 14. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Market in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of listed companies.  These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance.  In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities.  A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of our management's attention and resources.  Further, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors.  In such event, the price of our common stock may decline."
