[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. Kemper is exposed to numerous risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from recent results or anticipated future results. The following discussion details the significant risk factors that are specific to the Company. In addition to those described below, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected by other factors not presently known by, or considered material to, the Company. Readers are advised to consider all of these factors along with the other information included in this 2017 Annual Report, including the factors set forth under the caption \"Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" beginning on page 1, and to consult any further disclosures Kemper makes on related subjects in its filings with the SEC.. Risks Relating to Legal and Regulatory Environment. Kemper's insurance subsidiaries are subject to significant regulation, and the evolving legal and regulatory landscape in which they operate could result in increased operating costs, reduced profitability and limited growth.. Kemper's insurance subsidiaries operate under an extensive insurance regulatory system. Current laws and regulations encompass a wide variety of matters, including policy forms, premium rates, licensing, market conduct, trade practices, claims practices, reserve and loss ratio requirements, investment standards, statutory capital and surplus requirements, restrictions on the payment of dividends, approvals of transactions involving a change in control of one or more insurance companies, restrictions on transactions among affiliates and consumer privacy and data security. They also require the filing of annual and quarterly financial reports and holding company reports. Pre-approval requirements often restrict the companies from implementing premium rate changes for property, casualty and health insurance policies, introducing new, or making changes to existing, policy forms and many other actions. Insurance regulators conduct periodic examinations of Kemper's insurance subsidiaries and can suspend or delay their operations or licenses, require corrective actions, and impose penalties or other remedies available for compliance failures. For a more detailed discussion of the regulations applicable to Kemper's subsidiaries and related emerging developments, see \"Regulation\" in Item 1, beginning on page 12.. These laws and regulations, and their interpretation by the various regulators and courts, are undergoing continual revision and expansion. The legal and regulatory landscape within which Kemper's insurance subsidiaries conduct their businesses is often unpredictable. As industry practices and regulatory, judicial, political, social and other conditions change, issues may emerge, whether intended or not. These changes and emerging issues could adversely affect Kemper's insurance subsidiaries in a variety of ways, including, for example, by expanding coverages beyond the underwriting intent, increasing the number or size of claims, accelerating the payment of claims or adding to operational costs. Industry practices that were once considered approved, compliant and reasonable may suddenly be deemed unacceptable by virtue of a court or regulatory ruling or changes in regulatory enforcement policies and practices. It is not possible for the Company to predict such shifts in legal or regulatory enforcement or to accurately estimate the impact they may have on the Company and its operations.. One area where the legal and regulatory landscape is experiencing significant change is in connection with the mandated use of death verification databases by life insurance companies in their policy administration and claims handling practices. In recent years, many states have adopted new laws requiring insurers to proactively use such databases, including the Social Security Administration's Death Master File (the \"DMF\"), to varying degrees in order to ascertain if an insured may be deceased. More than half of the states have adopted such laws, and Kemper cannot predict whether additional states will enact similar legislation or, if enacted, what form such legislation may take. These laws require the insurer to initiate the claims process even though the insureds' beneficiaries have not submitted a claim, including proof of death, as required by regulator-approved policy forms and the insurer was otherwise unaware of the insured's death. In a related development, many states have expanded the application of their unclaimed property laws, particularly as they relate to life insurance proceeds, and the treasurers or controllers of a large number of states have engaged audit firms to examine the practices of life insurance companies with respect to the reporting and remittance of such proceeds under unclaimed property laws. The push to alter historic practices that were previously considered lawful and appropriate relative to both claims handling and remittance of life insurance policy proceeds under unclaimed property laws has caused the Company to be involved in compliance audits, market conduct examinations and litigation. The Company is in the process of implementing a voluntary, comprehensive process that began in 2016 to compare life insurance records against the DMF and other databases to determine if any of its insured may be deceased. See Note 2, \"Summary of Accounting Policies and Accounting Changes,\" and Note 23, \"Contingencies,\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.. The financial services industry, including insurance companies and their holding company systems, remains under regulatory scrutiny. While it is not possible to predict how new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations may impact the operations of Kemper's insurance subsidiaries, several developments have the potential to significantly impact such operations. This includes increased regulatory focus on cybersecurity and state adoption of extensive modifications to state. 15. holding company laws that substantially expand the oversight and examination powers of state insurance regulators beyond licensed insurance companies to their non-insurance affiliates and their organizations as a whole, particularly with respect to enterprise risk. In addition, the Health Care Acts have resulted in regulations affecting health insurers such as Reserve National, and potential changes to the state insurance regulatory system may result from the Dodd-Frank Act. See the discussion of these matters under \"Regulation\" in Item 1, beginning on page 12.. These new developments and significant changes in, or new interpretations of, existing laws and regulations could make it more expensive for Kemper's insurance subsidiaries to conduct and grow their businesses which could materially impact the Company's operating results.. Legal and regulatory proceedings are unpredictable and could produce one or more unexpected verdicts against the Company that could materially and adversely affect the Company's financial results for any given period.. Kemper and its subsidiaries are from time to time involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of their businesses. Some of these proceedings may involve matters particular to Kemper or one or more of its subsidiaries, while others may pertain to business practices in the industry in which Kemper and its subsidiaries operate. Some lawsuits may seek class action status that, if granted, could expose the Company to potentially significant liability by virtue of the size of the putative classes. These matters often raise difficult factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties and complexities. The outcomes of these matters are difficult to predict, and the amounts or ranges of potential loss at particular stages in the proceedings are in most cases difficult or impossible to ascertain. A further complication is that even where the possibility of an adverse outcome is remote under traditional legal analysis, juries sometimes substitute their subjective views in place of facts and established legal principles. Given the unpredictability of the legal and regulatory landscape in which the Company operates, there can be no assurance that one or more of these matters will not produce a result that could materially and adversely affect the Company's financial results for any given period.. For information about the Company's pending legal proceedings, see Note 23, \"Contingencies,\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements.. Risks Relating to Catastrophes and Estimating Property and Casualty Insurance Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses. Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations, liquidity and/or financial condition.. Kemper's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries are subject to claims arising out of catastrophes that may have a significant effect on their results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, explosions, severe winter weather and wildfires and may include man-made events, such as terrorist attacks and hazardous material spills. The incidence, frequency and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable and may be impacted by the uncertain effects of climate change. The extent of the Company's losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the geographic area affected by the event and the severity of the event. The Company could experience more than one severe catastrophic event in any given period.. Kemper's life and health insurance subsidiaries are particularly exposed to risks of catastrophic mortality, such as pandemic or other events that result in large numbers of deaths. In addition, the occurrence of such an event in a concentrated geographic area could have a severe disruptive effect on the Company's workforce and business operations. The likelihood and severity of such events cannot be predicted and are difficult to estimate.. The property and casualty insurance subsidiaries use catastrophe modeling tools developed by third parties to project their potential exposure to property damage resulting from catastrophic events under various scenarios. Such models are based on various assumptions and judgments which may turn out to be wrong. The actual impact of one or more catastrophic events could adversely and materially differ from these projections.. Changes in the availability and cost of catastrophe reinsurance and in the ability of reinsurers to meet their obligations could result in Kemper's insurance subsidiaries retaining more risk and could adversely and materially affect the Company's results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.. Kemper's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries seek to reduce their exposure to catastrophe losses through the purchase of catastrophe reinsurance. Catastrophe reinsurance does not relieve such subsidiaries of their direct liability to their policyholders. As long as the reinsurers meet their obligations, the net liability for such subsidiaries is limited to the amount of risk that they retain. While such subsidiaries' principal reinsurers are each rated \"A-\" or better by A.M. Best at the time. 16. reinsurance is purchased, the Company cannot be certain that reinsurers will pay the amounts due from them either now, in the future, or on a timely basis. A reinsurer's insolvency or inability to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement could materially and adversely affect the Company's financial position, results of operations and liquidity.. In addition, market conditions beyond the Company's control determine the availability of the reinsurance protection that Kemper's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries may purchase. A decrease in the amount of reinsurance protection that such subsidiaries purchase generally should increase their risk of a more severe loss. However, if the amount of available reinsurance is reduced, such subsidiaries may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect the ability of such subsidiaries to write future insurance policies or result in their retaining more risk with respect to such policies.. The extent to which Kemper's insurance subsidiaries can manage their catastrophe exposure through underwriting strategies may be limited by law or regulatory action and could adversely and materially affect the Company's results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity.. Kemper's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries also manage their exposure to catastrophe losses through underwriting strategies such as reducing exposures in, or withdrawing from, catastrophe-prone areas, establishing appropriate guidelines for insurable structures, and setting appropriate rates, deductibles, exclusions and policy limits. The extent to which such subsidiaries can manage their exposure through such strategies may be limited by law or regulatory action. For example, laws and regulations may limit the rate or timing at which insurers may non-renew insurance policies in catastrophe-prone areas or require insurers to participate in wind pools and joint underwriting associations. Generally, an insurer's participation in such pools and associations are based on the insurer's market share determined on a state-wide basis. Accordingly, even though Kemper's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries may not incur a direct insured loss as a result of managing direct catastrophe exposures, they may incur indirect losses from required participation in pools and associations. Laws and regulations requiring prior approval of policy forms and premium rates may limit the ability of Kemper's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries to increase rates or deductibles on a timely basis, which may result in additional losses or lower returns than otherwise would have occurred in an unregulated market. See the risk factor above under the title \"Kemper's insurance subsidiaries are subject to significant regulation, and the evolving legal and regulatory landscape in which they operate could result in increased operating costs, reduced profitability and limited growth.\". Estimating losses and LAE for determining property and casualty insurance reserves, or determining premium rates, is inherently uncertain, and the Company's results of operations may be materially impacted if the Company's insurance reserves or premium rates are insufficient.. The Company establishes loss and LAE reserves to cover estimated liabilities, which remain unpaid as of the end of each accounting period, and to investigate and settle all claims incurred under the property and casualty insurance policies that it has issued. Loss and LAE reserves are established for claims that have been reported to the Company as of the end of the accounting period, as well as for claims that have occurred but have not yet been reported to the Company. The estimates of loss and LAE reserves are based on the Company's assessment of the facts and circumstances known to it at the time, as well as estimates of the impact of future trends in the severity of claims, the frequency of claims and other factors.. The process of estimating property and casualty insurance reserves is complex and imprecise. The reserves established by the Company are inherently uncertain estimates and could prove to be inadequate to cover its ultimate losses and expenses for insured events that have occurred. The estimate of the ultimate cost of claims for insured events that have occurred must take into consideration many factors that are dependent on the outcome of future events associated with the reporting, investigation and settlement of claims. The impacts on the Company's estimates of property and casualty insurance reserves from these factors are difficult to assess accurately. A change in any one or more of the factors is likely to result in a projected ultimate loss that is different than the previous projected ultimate loss and may have a material impact on the Company's estimate of the projected ultimate loss. Increases in the estimates of ultimate losses and LAE will decrease earnings, while decreases in such estimates will increase earnings, as reported by the Company in the results of its operations for the periods in which the changes to the estimates are made by the Company. See MD&A, \"Critical Accounting Estimates,\" under the caption \"Property and Casualty Insurance Reserves for Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses\" beginning on page 64 for a discussion of the Company's reserving process and the factors considered by the Company's actuaries in estimating the Company's Property and Casualty Insurance Reserves.. The Company's actuaries also consider trends in the severity and frequency of claims and other factors when determining the premium rates to charge for its property and casualty insurance products. An unanticipated change in any one or more of these factors or trends, as well as a change in competitive conditions, may also result in inadequate premium rates charged for. 17. insurance policies issued by Kemper's property and casualty insurance subsidiaries in the future. Such pricing inadequacies could have a material impact on the Company's operating results.. Risks Relating to Competition. A downgrade in the ratings of Kemper or its insurance subsidiaries could materially and adversely affect the Company.. Third-party rating agencies assess the financial strength and rate the claims-paying ability of insurance companies based on criteria established by the rating agencies. Third-party ratings are important competitive factors in the insurance industry. Financial strength ratings are used to assess the financial strength and quality of insurers. Ratings agencies may downgrade the ratings of Kemper and/or its insurance subsidiaries or require Kemper to retain more capital in its insurance businesses to maintain existing ratings following developments that they deem negative. This can include factors directly related to the Company, such as an increase in the catastrophic risk retained by Kemper's insurance subsidiaries, or developments in industry or general economic conditions. A downgrade by A.M. Best in the ratings of Kemper's insurance subsidiaries, particularly those operating in the preferred and standard market or offering homeowners insurance, could result in a substantial loss of business if independent agents and brokers or policyholders of such subsidiaries move to other companies with higher claims-paying and financial strength ratings. Any substantial loss of business could materially and adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of such subsidiaries. A downgrade in Kemper's credit rating by Standard & Poor's (\"S&P\"), Moody's Investors Services (\"Moody's\") or Fitch Ratings (\"Fitch\") may reduce Kemper's ability to access the capital markets or may increase the cost to refinance existing debt.. The insurance industry is highly competitive, making it difficult to grow profitability and within expectations of investors.. The Company's insurance businesses face significant competition, and their ability to compete is affected by a variety of issues relative to others in the industry, such as quality of management, product pricing, service quality, financial strength and name recognition. Competitive success is based on many factors, including, but not limited to, the following:. • Competitiveness of prices charged for insurance policies;. • Sophistication of pricing segmentation;. • Design and introduction of insurance products to meet emerging consumer trends;. • Selection and retention of agents and other business partners;. • Compensation paid to agents;. • Underwriting discipline;. • Selectiveness of sales markets;. • Effectiveness of marketing materials and name recognition;. • Product and technological innovation;. • Ability to settle claims timely and efficiently;. • Ability to detect and prevent fraudulent insurance claims;. • Effectiveness of deployment and use of information technology across all aspects of operations;. • Ability to control operating expenses;. • Financial strength ratings; and. • Quality of services provided to, and ease of doing business with, independent agents and brokers or policyholders.. The inability to compete effectively in any of the Company's insurance businesses could materially reduce the Company's customer base and revenues and could materially and adversely affect the future results and financial condition of the Company.. See \"Competition\" in Item 1 of Part I beginning on page 9 and page 11, for more information on the competitive rankings in the property and casualty insurance markets and the life and health insurance markets, respectively, in the United States.. Risks Relating to Technology Initiatives, Security of Personal Data and Availability of Critical Systems. Technology initiatives could present significant economic and competitive challenges to the Company. Failure to complete and implement such initiatives in a timely manner could result in the loss of business and incurrence of internal use software development costs that may not be recoverable.. Data and analytics play an increasingly important role in the insurance industry. The Company may periodically initiate multi-year technology projects to enhance operations or replace aging systems. While technology developments can facilitate the use of data and analytics, streamline business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives can present significant economic and organizational challenges to the Company and potential short-term cost and implementation. 18. risks. In addition, projections of expenses and implementation schedules could change materially and costs could escalate over time, while the ultimate utility of a technology initiative could deteriorate over time.. Due to the highly-regulated nature of the financial services industry, the Company also faces rising costs and competing time constraints in adapting technology to meet compliance requirements of new and proposed regulations. The costs to develop and implement systems to replace the Company's aging systems and to comply with new regulatory requirements as needed over time are expected to be material. Due to the complexities involved, there can be no assurances that new multi-year projects will be successful and that the costs incurred to develop and implement replacement systems will be recoverable. Furthermore, failure to implement replacement systems in a timely manner could result in loss of business from the Company's inability to design and introduce new insurance products that meet emerging consumer needs competitive trends.. Failure to maintain the security of personal data may result in lost business, reputational harm, legal costs and regulatory penalties.. Kemper's insurance subsidiaries obtain and store vast amounts of personal data that can present significant risks to the Company and its customers and employees. An increasing array of laws and regulations govern the use and storage of such data, including, for example, social security numbers, credit card data and protected health information. Despite the implementation of various security measures, the Company's data systems, or those of its third party administrators and other business partners working on behalf of the Company, may be vulnerable to security breaches due to the increasing sophistication of cyber-attacks, viruses, malware, hackers and other external hazards, as well as equipment and system failures and inadvertent errors, negligence or intentional misconduct of employees and/or contractors. The Company also relies on the ability of its business partners to maintain secure systems and processes that comply with legal requirements and protect personal data. These increased risks and expanding regulatory requirements related to personal data privacy and security expose the Company to potential data loss and resulting damages, regulatory fines and other liabilities, reputational risk and significant increases in compliance and litigation costs. Although Kemper maintains cyber risk insurance, there is no guarantee that it will be sufficient to cover all of the costs of one or more data breach incidents that could occur.. The Company relies increasingly on electronic payments from policyholders, including, but not limited to, payment by credit and debit cards. In the event of non-compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, an information security framework for organizations that handle cardholder information for the major debit, credit, prepaid, e-purse, ATM and point-of-sale cards, such organizations could prevent Kemper's insurance subsidiaries from collecting premium payments from customers by way of such cards and impose significant fines on Kemper's insurance subsidiaries.. Failure to maintain the availability of critical systems may result in lost business, reputational harm, legal costs and regulatory penalties.. The Company's business operations rely on the continuous availability of its computer systems, including computer systems used by third party administrators working on behalf of the Company. In addition to disruptions caused by cyber-attacks or other data breaches, such systems may be adversely affected by natural and man-made catastrophes. The failure of the Company, or its third party administrators or other business partners, to maintain business continuity in the wake of such events may prevent the timely completion of critical processes across its operations, including, for example, insurance policy administration, claims processing, billing, treasury and investment operations and payroll. These failures could result in significant loss of business, fines and litigation.. Risks Relating to Investments. The Company's investment portfolio is exposed to a variety of risks that may negatively impact net investment income and cause realized and unrealized losses.. The Company maintains a diversified investment portfolio that is exposed to significant financial and capital market risks, including interest rate (risk-free and spread), equity price, and liquidity, as well as risks from changes in tax laws and regulations and other risks from changes in general economic conditions.. The interest rate environment has a significant impact on the Company's financial results and position. In recent years, rates have been at or near historic lows. A protracted low interest rate environment would continue to place pressure on net investment income, particularly related to fixed income securities, short-term investments and limited liability investment companies and limited partnerships accounted for under the equity method of accounting (\"Equity Method Limited Liability Investments\") that invest in distressed and mezzanine debt of other companies. A decline in interest rates would generally increase the carrying value of the Company's fixed income securities and its Equity Method Limited Liability Investments that exhibit debt-like characteristics, but it may adversely affect the Company's investment income as it invests cash in new. 19. investments that may yield less than the portfolio's average rate. In a declining interest rate environment, borrowers may seek to refinance their borrowings at lower rates and, accordingly, prepay or redeem securities the Company holds as investments more quickly than the Company initially expected. Such prepayment or redemption action may cause the Company to reinvest the redeemed proceeds in lower yielding investments. An increase in interest rates would generally reduce the carrying value of a substantial portion of the Company's investment portfolio, particularly fixed income securities and Equity Method Limited Liability Investments.. The Company invests a portion of its investment portfolio in equity securities, which generally have more volatile returns than fixed income securities and may experience sustained periods of depressed values. There are multiple factors that could negatively impact the performance of the Company's equity portfolio, including general economic conditions, industry or sector deterioration and issuer-specific concerns. A decline in equity values may result in a decrease in dividend income, realized losses upon sales of the securities, or other-than-temporary impairment charges on securities still held.. Interest rates and equity returns also have a significant impact on the Company's pension and other postretirement employee benefit plans. In addition to the impact on carrying values and yields of the underlying assets of the funded plans, interest rates also impact the discounting of the projected and accumulated benefit obligations of the plans. A decrease in interest rates may have a negative impact on the funded status of the plans.. The nature and cash flow needs of the Company and the insurance industry in general present certain liquidity risks that may impact the return of the investment portfolio. If the Company were to experience several significant catastrophic events over a relatively short period of time, investments may have to be sold in advance of their maturity dates to fund payments to claimants, which could result in realized losses. Additionally, increases in illiquidity in the financial markets may increase uncertainty in the valuations of the Company's investments. This increases the risk that the fair values reported in the Company's consolidated financial statements may differ from the actual price that may be obtained in an orderly sales transaction.. The Company has also benefited from certain tax laws related to its investment portfolio, including dividends received deductions and tax-exempt investment income. Changes in tax laws may have a detrimental effect on the after-tax return of the Company's investment portfolio. A reduction in income tax rates could also reduce the demand for tax-preferenced securities and result in a decline in the value of the Company's investment portfolio of such securities.. The Company's entire investment portfolio is subject to broad risks inherent in the financial markets, including, but not limited to, inflation, regulatory changes, inactive capital markets, governmental and social stability, economic outlooks, unemployment and recession. Changes to these risks and how the market perceives them may impact the financial performance of the Company's investments.. Kemper and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to various capital adequacy measurements that are significantly impacted by various characteristics of their invested assets, including, but not limited to, asset type, class, duration and credit rating. The Company's insurance subsidiaries are also subject to various limitations on the amounts at which they can invest in individual assets or certain asset classes in the aggregate. Asset risk is one factor used by insurance regulators and rating agencies to determine required capital for Kemper's insurance subsidiaries. Accordingly, a deterioration in the quality of the investments held by Kemper's insurance subsidiaries or an increase in the investment risk inherent in their investment portfolios could increase capital requirements. See the risk factor below under the title \"The ability of Kemper to service its debt, pay dividends to its shareholders and/or make repurchases of its stock may be materially impacted by lack of timely and/or sufficient dividends received from its subsidiaries.\" These factors may inhibit the Company from shifting its investment mix to produce higher returns. The Company is also subject to concentration of investment risk to the extent that the portfolio is heavily invested, at any particular time, in specific asset types, classes, industries, sectors or collateral types, among other defining features. Developments and the market's perception thereof in any of these concentrations may exacerbate the negative effects on the Company's investment portfolio compared to other companies.. The determination of the fair values of the Company's investments and whether a decline in the fair value of an investment is other-than-temporary are based on management's judgment and may prove to be materially different than the actual economic outcome.. The Company holds a significant amount of assets without readily available, active, quoted market prices or for which fair value cannot be measured from actively quoted prices. These assets are generally deemed to require a higher degree of judgment in measuring fair value. The assumptions used by management to measure fair values could turn out to be different than the actual amounts that may be realized in an orderly transaction with a willing market participant could be either lower or higher than the Company's estimates of fair value.. 20. The Company reviews its investment portfolio for factors that may indicate that a decline in the fair value of an investment is other-than-temporary. This evaluation is based on subjective factors, assumptions and estimates and may be materially different than the actual economic outcome, which may result in the Company recognizing additional losses in the future as new information emerges or recognizing losses currently that may never materialize in the future in an orderly transaction with a willing market participant.. Risks Relating to Servicing Debt, Paying Dividends and/or Repurchasing Stock. The ability of Kemper to service its debt, pay dividends to its shareholders and/or make repurchases of its stock may be materially impacted by lack of timely and/or sufficient dividends received from its subsidiaries.. As a holding company, Kemper depends on the dividend income that it receives from its subsidiaries as the primary source of funds to meet its payment obligations. Kemper's insurance subsidiaries are subject to significant regulatory restrictions under state insurance laws and regulations that limit their ability to declare and pay dividends. These laws and regulations impose minimum solvency and liquidity requirements on dividends between affiliated companies and require prior notice to, and may require approval from, state insurance regulators before dividends can be paid. In addition, third-party rating agencies monitor statutory capital and surplus levels for capital adequacy. Even though a dividend may be payable without regulatory approval, an insurance subsidiary may forgo paying a dividend to Kemper and retain the capital to maintain or improve the ratings of Kemper's insurance subsidiaries, or to offset increases in required capital from increases in premium volume or investment risk. The inability of one or more of Kemper's insurance subsidiaries to pay sufficient dividends to Kemper may materially affect Kemper's ability to pay its debt obligations on time, to pay dividends to its shareholders or make repurchases of its stock.. General Risks Relating to Mergers, Acquisitions and/or Divestitures. The expected benefits and synergies from mergers, acquisitions and/or divestitures may not be realized to the extent anticipated or within the anticipated time frames.. The Company routinely evaluates opportunities for transactions such as mergers, acquisitions and/or divestitures that would enhance its business and align with the Company's strategic plans. Kemper's ability to achieve the anticipated financial benefits from transactions may not be realized, due to any number of factors including, but not limited to, integration difficulties or failures, the loss of key agents/brokers, customers or employees, unexpected or underestimated liabilities, increased costs, fees, expenses and charges related to transactions, or may be delayed by factors outside of the Company's control. Furthermore, such adverse events could result in a decrease in the estimated fair value of goodwill or other intangible assets established as a result of such transactions, triggering an impairment. These and other factors could have a negative impact on Kemper's financial condition, profitability and results from operations.. Risks Relating to the Infinity Merger. Failure to complete the proposed Merger within the expected timeframe or at all could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Approvals, Clearance and Closing Conditions. There can be no assurance that the Infinity Merger will occur.  The closing of the Infinity Merger is subject to certain conditions, including, among others, (i) the adoption of the Infinity Merger Agreement by the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of Infinity common stock entitled to vote thereon, (ii) approval of the issuance of shares of Kemper's common stock in the Infinity Merger by the holders of at least a majority of the shares of Kemper common stock entitled to vote thereon and present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting of Kemper's stockholders called for such purpose, (iii) the receipt of certain regulatory approvals including the expiration or earlier termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, approvals of applicable state insurance regulators identified in the Infinity Merger Agreement and the receipt of any other regulatory approval the failure of which to be obtained would reasonably be likely to have a material adverse effect on Kemper or its subsidiaries, (iv) no court order or other legal restraint or prohibition preventing the consummation of the Infinity Merger being in effect, (v) the continued employment of a certain number of specified Infinity leadership management employees and certain percentages of sub-groups of a broader set of key Infinity employees, (vii) no exercise of appraisal rights in connection with the Infinity Merger by Infinity shareholders holding more than 10% of the outstanding shares of Infinity's common stock, (viii) the absence of any action commenced by a governmental entity wherein a judgment would reasonably be expected to prevent the consummation of the Infinity Merger or impose a \"materially burdensome condition\" (as defined in the Infinity Merger Agreement), (ix) in the case of each party's obligation to effect the Infinity Merger, the absence of a material adverse effect with respect to the other party since the date of the Infinity Merger Agreement and (x) subject to materiality exceptions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties. 21. made by Kemper and Kemper Merger Sub, on the one hand, and Infinity, on the other hand, and compliance by Kemper and Kemper Merger Sub, on the one hand, and Infinity, on the other hand, in all material respects with each party's respective obligations under the Infinity Merger Agreement.  Such closing conditions are not solely under the control of Kemper and/or Infinity and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that such closing conditions will be satisfied in a timely matter or at all.. In particular, before the proposed transactions contemplated by the Infinity Merger Agreement, including the Infinity Merger, may be completed, various clearances and approvals must be obtained from certain regulatory and governmental authorities. These regulatory and governmental entities may impose conditions on the granting of such approvals. Such conditions and the process of obtaining regulatory approvals could have the effect of delaying completion of the Infinity Merger or of imposing additional costs or limitations on the combined company following the Infinity Merger. The regulatory approvals may not be received at all, may not be received in a timely fashion and may contain conditions on the completion of the Infinity Merger. If any such conditions constitute a \"materially burdensome condition\" (as defined in the Infinity Merger Agreement), the parties may not be obligated to complete the Infinity Merger, and either Kemper or Infinity may have the right to terminate the Infinity Merger Agreement.. Impact on Our Ongoing Business. If the Infinity Merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected, and we will be subject to several risks and consequences, including the following:. • we will be required to pay certain costs related to the Infinity Merger, whether or not the Infinity Merger is completed, such as legal, accounting and other costs incurred in connection with the transaction;. • under the Infinity Merger Agreement, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completing the Infinity Merger that may adversely affect our ability to execute certain of our business strategies; and. • our management may spend substantial time and resources, including time and resources devoted to planning integration activities, related to the transaction, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us.. In addition, if the Infinity Merger is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from our agents, policyholders and employees. We also could be subject to litigation related to the Infinity Merger.. We will incur significant transaction and integration costs in connection with the Infinity Merger.. If the transaction is completed, we expect to incur various costs associated with completing the transaction, including financial advisory costs, and integrating the operations of the two companies. A substantial majority of these costs will be non-recurring expenses resulting from the transaction including (i) transaction costs, including costs to compensate financial advisors for their services, (ii) facilities and systems consolidation and integration costs and (iii) employment related costs. We may incur additional unanticipated costs to integrate our business with Infinity's business. As a result of such integration and consolidation activities, we may abandon, or shorten the useful lives, of assets that we currently use, which may result in us impairing an asset or accelerating depreciation and/or amortization of such assets. Although we expect that the elimination of redundant costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, will offset such incremental, non-recurring costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all.. The announcement and pendency of the Infinity Merger may adversely affect Kemper's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The announcement and pendency of the Infinity Merger with Infinity may cause disruptions and create uncertainty surrounding Kemper's business, which could affect its relationships with agents, employees and business partners, regardless of whether the Infinity Merger is consummated.  In addition, Kemper has diverted, and will continue to divert, management resources towards the completion of the proposed transaction that may divert management's attention and Kemper's resources from ongoing business and operations.. The price of Kemper common stock might increase or decline prior to the completion of the Infinity Merger, which would change the value of the Infinity Merger consideration to be received by Infinity shareholders pursuant to the Infinity Merger Agreement.. The price of our common stock might increase or decline prior to the completion of the transaction, which would change the value of the consideration to be received by Infinity's shareholders at the closing, which could result in the shareholders of either, or both, companies not approving the transaction. Upon completion of the Infinity Merger, each share of Infinity common stock issued and outstanding as of immediately prior to the consummation of the Infinity Merger (other than as set. 22. forth in the Infinity Merger Agreement) will be canceled and converted into, at the election of the holder of such share, the right to receive $51.60 in cash and 1.2019 shares of Kemper common stock for each share of Infinity common stock, without interest thereon.  The Infinity Merger Agreement also provides for an election procedure allowing each Infinity shareholder to seek all cash or all 0stock consideration, subject to automatic proration and adjustment (See Note 26, \"Subsequent Events,\" to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information). The exchange ratio for determining the number of shares of Kemper common stock that Infinity shareholders will receive in the Infinity Merger is fixed and will not be adjusted for changes in the market price of Kemper's common stock.  A significant increase in the price of Kemper common stock could result in Kemper recognizing substantially more goodwill resulting from the transaction than currently contemplated. We are required to evaluate goodwill for recoverability at least annually based on facts and circumstances existing as of the dates of such evaluations. We cannot make any assurances that goodwill will be recoverable at any of such evaluation dates.. The Infinity Merger Agreement contains provisions that may discourage other companies from trying to acquire Kemper.. The Infinity Merger Agreement contains provisions that apply both during the pendency of the Infinity Merger transaction with Infinity as well as afterward should the Infinity Merger with Infinity not be consummated that may discourage a third party from submitting a business combination proposal to Kemper that might result in greater value to Kemper's stockholders than the Infinity Merger. These Infinity Merger Agreement provisions include a general prohibition on Kemper soliciting, or, subject to certain exceptions, entering into discussions with any third party regarding any acquisition proposal or offers for competing transactions.. The issuance of shares of Kemper common stock to Infinity shareholders pursuant to the Infinity Merger Agreement will reduce the percentage ownership interests of Kemper's pre-existing stockholders.. If the transaction is completed, we expect to issue approximately 13.2 million shares of Kemper common stock to Infinity's shareholders and Infinity's shareholders will own approximately 20% of the combined company. The issuance of such shares of our common stock will result in a significant reduction in the relative percentage interests of our current stockholders in earnings, voting, liquidation value and book and market value. While, excluding the impact of non-recurring transaction and integration costs, we currently anticipate that the Infinity Merger will be accretive to Kemper's earnings per share in the first year following the completion of the transaction,our expectation is based on estimates, which may materially change. We could also encounter additional transaction and integration related costs or other factors such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the transaction. All of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the transaction, which may result in a decrease in the price of our common stock.. To be successful, the combined company following the Infinity Merger must retain and motivate key employees, including those experienced with post-acquisition integration, and failure to do so could seriously harm the combined company.. The success of the combined company following the Infinity Merger largely depends on the skills, experience and continued efforts of management and other key personnel for each of Kemper and Infinity. As a result, to be successful, the combined company must retain and motivate executives and other key employees. Certain specified management employees of Infinity have executed retention letters and related employment agreements with Kemper to continue their employment for a period of two years following the Infinity Merger. However, certain key managers and functional area employees will continue to be at - will employees following the Infinity Merger and there is no assurance that these individuals will remain with the combined company. If these personnel were to leave, the combined company may experience increased difficulty in managing the ongoing business operations and integrating the businesses and may not be able to adequately replace such personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on the combined company's overall business, results of operations and financial condition.. We cannot assure our shareholders that the risks described above in this risk factor will not materialize and will not materially adversely affect our business, financial results and stock prices."
