[1] "ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information in this report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating us and our business.. Risks Related to Our Business. The depressed conditions in our industry have materially and adversely affected our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition during 2017 and, unless conditions in our industry improve, this trend could continue during 2018 and potentially beyond.. Oil and natural gas prices began a rapid and substantial decline in the fourth quarter of 2014. Depressed commodity price conditions persisted and worsened during 2015 and remained depressed and volatile during 2016 and 2017. As a result, demand for our products and services declined substantially from 2014, and the prices we are able to charge our customers for our products and services also declined substantially. These trends materially and adversely affected our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition during 2017 and, unless conditions in our industry improve, this trend will continue during 2018 and potentially beyond.. We had substantial net losses during 2015, 2016 and 2017, and, during 2017, our cash flow used by operations was $51.4 million. If industry conditions do not improve, we may continue to suffer net losses and negative cash flows from operations.. Although our financial position has improved as a result of the reorganization and we are continuing to pursue cost reduction initiatives, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully consummate these initiatives or that they will be successful to improve our financial condition and liquidity.. Our business is cyclical and depends on conditions in the oil and natural gas industry, especially oil and natural gas prices and capital and operating expenditures by oil and natural gas companies. A continuation of the depressed state of our industry, tight credit markets and disruptions in the U.S. and global economies and financial systems may adversely impact our business.. Prices for oil and natural gas historically have been volatile as a result of changes in the supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas and other factors. The significant decline in oil and natural gas prices that began in 2014 and continued throughout 2015, 2016 and 2017 caused many of our customers to significantly reduce drilling, completion and other production activities and related spending on our products and services in those years. In addition, the reduction in demand from our customers has resulted in an oversupply of many of the services and products we provide, and such oversupply substantially reduced the prices we can charge our customers for our services.. We depend on our customers' willingness to make capital expenditures to explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas. Therefore, weakness in oil and natural gas prices (or the perception by our customers that oil and natural gas prices will remain reduced or will continue to decrease in the future) has and may continue to result in a reduction in the utilization of our equipment and in lower rates for our services. In addition to adversely affecting us, the continuation and worsening of these conditions have resulted and may continue to result in a material adverse impact on certain of our customers' liquidity and financial position resulting in further spending reductions, delays in payment of, or non-payment of, amounts owing to us and similar impacts. These conditions have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows, and it is difficult to predict how long the current uncertain commodity price environment will continue.. Many factors affect the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas and, therefore, influence product prices, including:. • prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and natural gas;. • domestic and worldwide economic conditions;. • domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas;. • the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas including the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels for oil;. • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas;. • the level of excess production capacity, available pipeline, storage and other transportation capacity;. • lead times associated with acquiring equipment and products and availability of qualified personnel;. 11. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • the expected rates of decline in production from existing and prospective wells;. • the discovery rates of new oil and gas reserves;. • federal, state and local regulation of exploration and drilling activities and equipment, material or supplies that we furnish;. • public pressure on, and legislative and regulatory interest within, federal, state and local governments to stop, significantly limit or regulate hydraulic fracturing activities;. • weather conditions, including hurricanes, that can affect oil and natural gas operations over a wide area and severe winter weather that can interfere with our operations;. • political instability in oil and natural gas producing countries;. • advances in exploration, development and production technologies or in technologies affecting energy consumption;. • the price and availability of alternative fuel and energy sources;. • uncertainty in capital and commodities markets; and. • changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other major global currencies.. Spending by exploration and production companies has also been, and may continue to be, impacted by conditions in the capital markets. Limitations on the availability of capital, and higher costs of capital, for financing expenditures have contributed to exploration and production companies making materially significant reductions to capital or operating budgets and such limitations may continue if oil and natural gas prices remain at current levels or decrease further. Such cuts in spending have curtailed, and may continue to curtail, drilling programs as well as discretionary spending on well services, which has resulted, and may continue to result, in a reduction in the demand for our services, the rates we can charge and the utilization of our assets. Moreover, reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves, and a decrease in the development rate of reserves in our market areas whether due to increased governmental regulation, limitations on exploration and drilling activity or other factors, have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse impact on our business, even in a stronger oil and natural gas price environment.. A substantial decline in oil and natural gas prices generally leads to decreased spending by our customers. While higher oil and natural gas prices generally lead to increased spending by our customers, sustained high energy prices can be an impediment to economic growth, and can therefore negatively impact spending by our customers. Our customers also take into account the volatility of energy prices and other risk factors by requiring higher returns for individual projects if there is higher perceived risk. Any of these factors could affect the demand for oil and natural gas and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. The amount of our debt and the covenants in the agreements governing our debt could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects.. Although we reduced the amount of our debt by approximately $697 million as a result of the reorganization in 2016, as of December 31, 2017, we had $245.6 million of total debt. Our level of indebtedness, and the covenants contained in the agreements governing our debt, could have important consequences for our operations, including:. • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under the agreements governing our indebtedness and increasing the risk that we may default on our debt obligations;. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes and other activities;. • limiting management's flexibility in operating our business;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • diminishing our ability to successfully withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally;. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage against less leveraged competitors; and. • making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates, because our debt has variable interest rates.. As more fully described in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources\", each of our ABL Facility and our Term Loan Facility contains affirmative and negative covenants, including financial ratios and tests, with which we must comply. These covenants include, among others, covenants that restrict our ability to take certain actions without the permission of the holders of our indebtedness, including the incurrence of debt, the granting of liens, the making of investments, the payment of dividends and the sale of assets, and the financial ratios and tests include, among others, a requirement that we comply with a minimum liquidity covenant, a minimum asset coverage ratio and, during certain periods, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. In addition, under our Term Loan Facility and ABL Facility, we are required to take certain steps to perfect the security interest in the collateral within specified periods following the closing of those facilities.. 12. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Our ability to satisfy required financial covenants, ratios and tests in our debt agreements can be affected by events beyond our control, including commodity prices, demand for our services, the valuation of our assets, as well as prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to remain in compliance with such covenants or that the holders of our indebtedness will not seek to assert that we are not in compliance with our covenants. A breach of any of these covenants, ratios or tests could result in a default under our indebtedness. If we default, lenders under our ABL Facility will no longer be obligated to extend credit to us, and they and the administrative agent under our Term Loan Facility could declare all amounts of outstanding debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. The results of such actions would have a significant negative impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows, and absent strategic alternatives such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness or capital structure, we would not have sufficient liquidity to repay all of our outstanding indebtedness. If such a result were to occur, we may be forced into bankruptcy or forced to again seek bankruptcy protection to restructure our business and capital structure and may have to liquidate our assets and may receive less than the value at which those assets are carried on our financial statements.. We may incur more debt and long-term lease obligations in the future.. The agreements governing our long-term debt restrict, but do not prohibit, us from incurring additional indebtedness and other obligations in the future. As of December 31, 2017, we had $245.6 million of total debt.. An increase in our level of indebtedness could exacerbate the risks described in the immediately preceding risk factor and the occurrence of any of such events could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and business prospects.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service and other obligations.. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and other costs of our operations depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a large extent, is subject to conditions in the oil and natural gas industry, including commodity prices, demand for our services and the prices we are able to charge for our services, general economic and financial conditions, competition in the markets in which we operate, the impact of legislative and regulatory actions on how we conduct our business and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. During fiscal year 2017, we had negative cash flows from operations, and this trend could continue if conditions in our industry continue or worsen.. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Borrowings under our ABL Facility and our Term Loan Facility bear interest at variable rates, exposing us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed would remain the same, and our net income and cash available for servicing our indebtedness would decrease.. We may be unable to implement price increases or maintain existing prices on our core services.. We periodically seek to increase the prices of our services to offset rising costs and to generate higher returns for our stockholders. Currently, the prices we are able to charge for our services and the demand for such services are severely depressed. Even when industry conditions are favorable, we operate in a very competitive industry and as a result, we are not always successful in raising, or maintaining our existing prices. Additionally, during periods of increased market demand, a significant amount of new service capacity, including new well service rigs, fluid hauling trucks, coiled tubing units and new fishing and rental equipment, may enter the market, which also puts pressure on the pricing of our services and limits our ability to increase or maintain prices. Furthermore, during periods of declining pricing for our services, we may not be able to reduce our costs accordingly, which could further adversely affect our profitability.. Even when we are able to increase our prices, we may not be able to do so at a rate that is sufficient to offset such rising costs. In periods of high demand for oilfield services, a tighter labor market may result in higher labor costs. During such periods, our labor costs could increase at a greater rate than our ability to raise prices for our services. Also, we may not be able to successfully increase prices without adversely affecting our activity levels. The inability to maintain our prices or to increase our prices as costs increase could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.. We participate in a capital-intensive industry. We may not be able to finance future growth of our operations or future acquisitions.. Our activities require substantial capital expenditures. If our cash flow from operating activities and borrowings under our ABL Facility are not sufficient to fund our capital expenditure budget, we would be required to reduce these expenditures or fund these expenditures through debt or equity or alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt or selling assets.. Our ability to raise debt or equity capital or to refinance or restructure our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time, among other things. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates. 13. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. Any of the foregoing consequences could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Increased labor costs or the unavailability of skilled workers could hurt our operations.. Companies in our industry, including us, are dependent upon the available labor pool of skilled employees. We compete with other oilfield services businesses and other employers to attract and retain qualified personnel with the technical skills and experience required to provide our customers with the highest quality service. We are also subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions, which can increase our labor costs or subject us to liabilities to our employees. A shortage in the labor pool of skilled workers or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain personnel and could require us to enhance our wage and benefits packages. Labor costs may increase in the future or we may not be able to reduce wages when demand and pricing falls, and such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairments or other charges.. We have recorded goodwill impairment charges and asset impairment charges in the past. We periodically evaluate our long-lived assets such as our property and equipment for impairment. We perform the assessment of potential impairment for our property and equipment whenever facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable due to various external or internal factors. If conditions in our industry do not improve or worsen, we could record additional impairment charges in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. Our business involves certain operating risks, which are primarily self-insured, and our insurance may not be adequate to cover all insured losses or liabilities we might incur in our operations.. Our operations are subject to many hazards and risks, including the following:. • accidents resulting in serious bodily injury and the loss of life or property;. • liabilities from accidents or damage by our fleet of trucks, rigs and other equipment;. • pollution and other damage to the environment;. • reservoir damage;. • blow-outs, the uncontrolled flow of natural gas, oil or other well fluids into the atmosphere or an underground formation; and. • fires and explosions.. If any of these hazards occur, they could result in suspension of operations, damage to or destruction of our equipment and the property of others, or injury or death to our or a third party's personnel.. We self-insure against a significant portion of these liabilities. For losses in excess of our self-insurance limits, we maintain insurance from unaffiliated commercial carriers. However, our insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities that we might incur in our operations. Furthermore, our insurance may not adequately protect us against liability from all of the hazards of our business. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies may substantially increase. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. We also are subject to the risk that we may be unable to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at a reasonable cost. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were uninsured or for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We operate in a highly competitive industry, with intense price competition, which may intensify as our competitors expand their operations.. The market for oilfield services in which we operate is highly competitive and includes numerous small companies capable of competing effectively in our markets on a local basis, as well as several large companies that possess substantially greater financial resources than we do. Contracts are traditionally awarded on the basis of competitive bids or direct negotiations with customers.. The principal competitive factors in our markets are product and service quality and availability, responsiveness, experience, technology, equipment quality, reputation for safety and price. The competitive environment has intensified as recent mergers among exploration and production companies reduced the number of available customers. The fact that drilling rigs and other vehicles and oilfield services equipment are mobile and can be moved from one market to another in response to market conditions heightens the competition in the industry. We may be competing for work against competitors that may be better able to withstand industry downturns and may be better suited to compete on the basis of price, retain skilled personnel and acquire new equipment and technologies, all of which could affect our revenues and profitability.. 14. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Historically, we have experienced a high employee turnover rate. Any difficulty we experience replacing or adding workers could adversely affect our business.. We believe that the high turnover rate in our industry is attributable to the nature of oilfield services work, which is physically demanding and performed outdoors. As a result, workers may choose to pursue employment in fields that offer a more desirable work environment at wage rates that are competitive with ours. The potential inability or lack of desire by workers to commute to our facilities and job sites, as well as the competition for workers from competitors or other industries, are factors that could negatively affect our ability to attract and retain workers. We may not be able to recruit, train and retain an adequate number of workers to replace departing workers. The inability to maintain an adequate workforce could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be successful in implementing and maintaining technology development and enhancements. New technology may cause us to become less competitive.. The oilfield services industry is subject to the introduction of new drilling and completion techniques and services using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent protection. As competitors and others use or develop new technologies in the future, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we may face competitive pressure to implement or acquire certain new technologies at a substantial cost. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that may allow them to implement new technologies before we can. If we are unable to develop and implement new technologies or products on a timely basis and at competitive cost, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. A component of our business strategy is to incorporate the KeyView® system, our proprietary technology, into our well service rigs. The inability to successfully develop, integrate and protect this technology could:. • limit our ability to improve our market position;. • increase our operating costs; and. • limit our ability to recoup the investments made in this technological initiative.. The loss of or a substantial reduction in activity by one or more of our largest customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. One customer accounted for more than 10% of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 and our ten largest customers represented approximately 50% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. The loss of or a substantial reduction in activity by one or more of these customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Potential adoption of future state or federal laws or regulations surrounding the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete oil or natural gas wells and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Many of our customers utilize hydraulic fracturing services during the life of a well. Hydraulic fracturing is the process of creating or expanding cracks, or fractures, in underground formations where water, sand and other additives are pumped under high pressure into the formation. Although we are not a provider of hydraulic fracturing services, many of our services complement the hydraulic fracturing process.. Legislation has been introduced in Congress to provide for broader federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing operations and the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process. Additionally, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel under the Safe Drinking Water Act and in May 2012 issued draft guidance for fracturing operations that involved diesel fuels. If additional levels of regulation or permitting requirements were imposed through the adoption of new laws and regulations, our customers' business and operations could be subject to delays and increased operating and compliance costs, which could negatively impact the number of active wells in the marketplaces we serve. New regulations addressing hydraulic fracturing and chemical disclosure have been approved or are under consideration by a number of states and some municipalities have sought to restrict or ban hydraulic fracturing within their jurisdictions. For example, in June 2015, the New York Department of Environmental Conservation issued a findings statement concluding its seven-year study of high-volume hydraulic fracturing, thereby officially prohibiting the practice in New York. Additionally, in California, legislation regarding well stimulation, including hydraulic fracturing, has been adopted. The law mandates technical standards for well construction, hydraulic fracturing water management, groundwater monitoring, seismicity monitoring during hydraulic fracturing operations and public disclosure of hydraulic fracturing fluid constituents. These and other new federal, state or municipal laws regulating the hydraulic fracturing process could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 15. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Permit conditions, legislation or regulatory initiatives could restrict our ability to dispose of fluids produced subsequent to well completion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. As part of our fluid management services, we provide disposal services for fluids produced subsequent to well completion.  These fluids are removed from the well site and transported for disposal in SWD wells.  We operate SWD wells that are subject to the CWA, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and state and local laws and regulations, including those established by the Underground Injection Control Program of the EPA, which establishes the minimum program requirements. Most of our SWD wells are located in Texas. We also operate SWD wells in Arkansas, Louisiana and New Mexico. Regulations in these states require us to obtain an Underground Injection Control permit to operate each of our SWD wells. The applicable regulatory agency may suspend or modify one or more of our permits if our well operations are likely to result in pollution of freshwater or substantial violation of permit conditions or applicable rules, or if the well leaks into the environment.. In addition, there exists a growing concern that the injection of produced fluids into belowground disposal wells may trigger seismic activity in certain areas. In response to these concerns, regulators in some states are pursuing initiatives designed to impose additional requirements in connection with the permitting of SWD wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and oil and gas operations. For example, in 2014, the Texas Railroad Commission, or TRC, published a rule governing permitting or re-permitting of disposal wells in Texas that would require, among other things, the submission of information on seismic events occurring within a specified radius of the disposal well location, as well as logs, geologic cross sections and structure maps relating to the disposal area in question. If a permittee or a prospective permittee fails to demonstrate that the saltwater or other fluids are confined to the disposal zone or if scientific data indicates such a disposal well is likely to be or determined to be contributing to seismic activity, then the TRC may deny, modify, suspend or terminate the permit application or existing operating permit for that well.. The imposition of permit conditions or the adoption and implementation of any new laws, regulations, or directives that restrict our ability to dispose of produced fluids, including by restricting disposal well locations, changing the depths of disposal wells, reducing the volume of wastewater disposed in wells, or requiring us to shut down disposal wells or otherwise, could lead to operational delays and increased operating costs, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern our operations.. Our operations are subject to U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the handling, storage and disposal of waste materials, including toxic and hazardous wastes. To comply with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various governmental authorities. While the cost of such compliance has not been significant in the past, new laws, regulations or enforcement policies could become more stringent and significantly increase our compliance costs or limit our future business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations pose risks of environmental liability, including leakage from our operations to surface or subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater. Some environmental laws and regulations may impose strict liability, joint and several liability, or both. Therefore, in some situations, we could be exposed to liability as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, third parties without regard to whether we caused or contributed to the conditions. Actions arising under these laws and regulations could result in the shutdown of our operations, fines and penalties, expenditures for remediation or other corrective measures, and claims for liability for property damage, exposure to hazardous materials, exposure to hazardous waste or personal injuries. Sanctions for noncompliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations also may include the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, revocation of permits, temporary or permanent cessation of operations in a particular location and issuance of corrective action orders. Such claims or sanctions and related costs could cause us to incur substantial costs or losses and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Additionally, an increase in regulatory requirements on oil and natural gas exploration and completion activities could significantly delay or interrupt our operations.. The scope of regulation of our services may increase in light of the April 2010 Macondo accident and resulting oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, including possible increases in liabilities or funding requirements imposed by governmental agencies. In 2012, the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, or \"BSEE,\" expanded its regulatory oversight beyond oil and gas operators to include service and equipment contractors. In addition, U.S. federal law imposes on certain entities deemed to be \"responsible parties\" a variety of regulations related to the prevention of oil spills, releases of hazardous substances, and liability for removal costs and natural resource, real property and certain economic damages arising from such incidents. Some of these laws may impose strict and/or joint and several liability for certain costs and damages without regard to the conduct of the parties. As a provider of services and rental equipment for offshore drilling and workover services, we may be deemed a \"responsible party\" under federal law. The implementation of such laws and the adoption and implementation of future regulatory initiatives, or the specific responsibilities that may arise from such initiatives may subject us to increased costs and liabilities, which could interrupt our operations or have an adverse effect on our revenue or results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Severe weather could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather. Our customers' oil and natural gas operations located in Louisiana and parts of Texas may be adversely affected by hurricanes and tropical storms, resulting in reduced demand for our services. Furthermore, our customers' operations may be adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions. Adverse weather can also directly impede our own operations. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include:. • curtailment of services;. • weather-related damage to facilities and equipment, resulting in suspension of operations;. • inability to deliver equipment, personnel and products to job sites in accordance with contract schedules; and. • loss of productivity.. These constraints could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. Unusually warm winters may also adversely affect the demand for our services by decreasing the demand for natural gas.. Acquisitions and divestitures - we may not be successful in identifying, making and integrating acquisitions or limiting ongoing costs associated with the operations we divest.. An important component of our growth strategy is to make acquisitions that will strengthen our core services or presence in selected markets. The success of this strategy will depend, among other things, on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, to negotiate acceptable financial and other terms, to timely and successfully integrate acquired business or assets into our existing businesses and to retain the key personnel and the customer base of acquired businesses. Any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including but not limited to:. • incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets;. • failure to successfully integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets in a timely manner;. • failure to retain or attract key employees;. • diversion of management's attention from existing operations or other priorities;. • the inability to implement promptly an effective control environment;. • potential impairment charges if purchase assumptions are not achieved or market conditions decline;. • the risks inherent in entering markets or lines of business with which the company has limited or no prior experience; and. • inability to secure sufficient financing, sufficient financing on economically attractive terms that may be required for any such acquisition or investment.. Our business strategy anticipates, and is based upon our ability to successfully complete and integrate, acquisitions of other businesses or assets in a timely and cost effective manner. Our failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We also make strategic divestitures from time to time. In the case of divestitures, we may agree to indemnify acquiring parties for certain liabilities arising from our former businesses. These divestitures may also result in continued financial involvement in the divested businesses, including through guarantees, service level agreements, or other financial arrangements, following the transaction. Lower performance by those divested businesses could affect our future financial results if there is contingent consideration associated.. Compliance with climate change legislation or initiatives could negatively impact our business.. Various state governments and regional organizations comprising state governments are considering enacting new legislation and promulgating new regulations governing or restricting the emission of greenhouse gases, or \"GHG,\" from stationary sources, which may include our equipment and operations. At the federal level, the EPA has already issued regulations that require us to establish and report an inventory of GHG emissions. The EPA also has established a GHG permitting requirement for large stationary sources and may lower the threshold of the permitting program, which could include our equipment and operations. Legislative and regulatory proposals for restricting GHG emissions or otherwise addressing climate change could require us to incur additional operating costs and could adversely affect demand for natural gas and oil. The potential increase in our operating costs could include new or increased costs to obtain permits, operate and maintain our equipment and facilities, install new emission controls on our equipment and facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay taxes related to our GHG emissions and administer and manage a GHG emissions program.. In addition, in December, 2014, California adopted GHG emission rules for heavy duty vehicles equivalent to EPA rules and an optional lower emission standard for nitrogen oxides (\"NOx\") in California.  California has stated its intention to lower NOx standards for California-certified engines and has also requested that the EPA lower its standards.  In June 2016, several regional air quality management districts in California and other states, as well as the environmental agencies for several states, petitioned the EPA to adopt lower NOx emission standards for on-road heavy duty trucks and engines. We expect that heavy duty vehicle and engine fuel economy and GHG emissions rules will be under consideration in other jurisdictions in the future.  We. 17. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. may incur significant capital expenditures and administrative costs as we update our transportation fleet to comply with emissions laws and regulations.. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and natural gas.. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation could reduce demand for oil and natural gas.  Moreover, incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources could reduce demand for oil and natural gas.  Management cannot predict the impact of the changing demand for oil and natural gas services and products, and any major changes may have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Related to Our Emergence from Bankruptcy. Information contained in our historical financial statements will not be comparable to the information contained in our financial statements after the application of fresh start accounting.. This Annual Report on Form 10-K reflects the consummation of the Plan and the adoption of fresh start accounting.  As a result, our financial statements from and after the Effective Date will not be comparable to our financial statements for prior periods. This will make it difficult for stockholders to assess our performance in relation to prior periods. Please see \"Note 3. Fresh Start Accounting\" in \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\" for additional information.. We have a limited operating history since our emergence from bankruptcy and consequently our business plan is difficult to evaluate and our long term viability cannot be assured.. Our prospects for financial success are difficult to assess because we have a limited operating history since emergence from bankruptcy. The Company together with certain subsidiaries filed for Chapter 11 relief on October 24, 2016, and we emerged from bankruptcy on December 15, 2016. There can be no assurance that our business will be successful, that we will be able to achieve or maintain a profitable operation, or that we will not encounter unforeseen difficulties that may deplete our capital resources more rapidly than anticipated. There can be no assurance that we will achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows from our operating activities.. Our corporate advisory services agreement may result in financial burden or other adverse effects.. On the Effective Date, the Company entered into the CASA with Platinum, an affiliate of Soter. Pursuant to this agreement, Platinum provides a range of business, financial and accounting advice in exchange for an advisory fee of $2.75 million per year (subject to certain adjustments). During the term of the CASA, the Company will be obligated to accrue and pay the advisory fee in accordance with the terms set forth in the CASA. In addition, the business, financial and accounting advice provided by Platinum to the Company under the CASA could increase the influence that Platinum has over our operations.. The CASA may not be terminated by the Company until December 31, 2019, but Platinum may terminate the CASA at any time upon 90 days' prior written notice to the Company. The CASA also terminates automatically if Soter owns less than 33% of our common stock. After the termination of the CASA, Key may need to provide its own services to replace those provided under the CASA or procure such services from third parties. Any failure of or delay in procuring comparable services following a termination of the CASA could result in unexpected costs and business disruption.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our controlling stockholder may deter transactions that could be beneficial to other stockholders.. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and the Plan, beginning on the Effective Date and until the 2019 annual stockholders meeting (the \"Initial Board Term\"), directors appointed by Soter, our largest stockholder, will collectively hold votes that constitute a majority of all votes held by directors of the Company. As a result, subject to certain approval rights of directors selected by certain other stockholders, the Soter directors will control decisions made by the board.  This control could discourage others from initiating any merger, takeover or other transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to the other holders of shares of our common stock.. After the Initial Board Term, for as long as our Series A Preferred Stock is outstanding, directors selected by Soter will continue to hold votes that constitute a majority of all votes held by all directors. As a result, subject to certain approval rights held by non-Soter directors, the Soter directors will continue to control decisions made by the board, including whether to enter into transactions that may otherwise be beneficial to the other holders of shares of our common stock.. The resale of shares of our common stock, including shares issuable upon exercise of our warrants, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. At the time of our emergence from bankruptcy, certain shares of our common stock issued to certain stockholders were \"restricted securities\" for purposes of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\") and  accordingly, were subject to limitations on resale. The shares held by these stockholders (other than the Company) are now freely resalable under the Securities Act without limitations.. 18. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Furthermore, as of December 16, 2016, there were 919,004 4-Year Warrants and 919,004 5-Year Warrants outstanding.  The exercise price of one 4-Year Warrant is $43.52, and the exercise price of one 5-Year Warrant is $54.40, each subject to certain adjustments.. The sale of a significant number of shares of our common stock, including shares issuable upon exercise of our warrants, or substantial trading in our common stock or the perception in the market that substantial trading in our common stock will occur, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common stock will develop or be maintained, and the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline.. The common stock of the Successor Company was listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the \"NYSE\") on December 16, 2016, following our emergence from bankruptcy. We cannot assure you that an active public market for our common stock will be sustained. In the absence of an active public trading market, it may be difficult to liquidate your investment in our common stock.. The trading price of our common stock on the NYSE may fluctuate substantially. Numerous factors, including many over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. These risks include those described or referred to in this \"Risk Factors\" section as well as, among other things:. • our operating and financial performance and prospects;. • our ability to repay our debt;. • our access to financial and capital markets to refinance our debt or replace the existing credit facilities;. • investor perceptions of us and the industry and markets in which we operate;. • future sales of equity or equity-related securities;. • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; and. • general financial, domestic, economic and other market conditions.. The Company does not expect to pay dividends on its common stock in the foreseeable future.. We do not anticipate to pay cash dividends or other distributions with respect to shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future, and we cannot assure that such dividends or other distributions will be paid at any time in the future or at all.  In addition, restrictive covenants in our debt agreement limit our ability to pay dividends. As a result, holders of shares of common stock likely will not be able to realize a return on their investment, if any, until the shares are sold.. Certain provisions of our corporate documents and Delaware law, as well as change of control provisions in our debt agreements, could delay or prevent a change of control, even if that change would be beneficial to stockholders, or could have a material negative impact on our business.. Certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and debt agreements may have the effect of deterring transactions involving a change in control, including transactions in which stockholders might receive a premium for their shares.. In addition to the risks of having a controlling stockholder as described in the risk factor \"Our controlling stockholder may deter transactions that could be beneficial to other stockholders,\" our certificate of incorporation provides for the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. The authorization of preferred shares empowers our board, without further stockholder approval, to issue preferred shares with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of the common stock. If issued, the preferred stock could also dilute the holders of our common stock and could be used to discourage, delay or prevent a change of control.. Furthermore, our debt agreements contain provisions pursuant to which an event of default or mandatory prepayment offer may result if certain \"persons\" or \"groups\" become the beneficial owner of more than 50.1% of our common stock. This could deter certain parties from seeking to acquire us, and if any \"person\" or \"group\" were to become the beneficial owner of more than 50.1% of our common stock, we may not be able to repay our indebtedness.. We are also a Delaware corporation subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\").  In general, Section 203 of the DGCL prevents an \"interested stockholder\" (as defined in the DGCL) from engaging in a \"business combination\" (as defined in the DGCL) with us for three years following the date that person becomes an interested stockholder unless one or more of the following occurs:. • Before that person became an interested stockholder, our board of directors approved the transaction in which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder or approved the business combination;. • Upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the interested stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding for purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding stock held by certain directors and employee stock plans; or. 19. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • Following the transaction in which that person became an interested stockholder, the business combination is approved by our board of directors and authorized at a meeting of stockholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding voting stock not owned by the interested stockholder.. The DGCL generally defines \"interested stockholder\" as any person who, together with affiliates and associates, is the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or is our affiliate or associate and was the owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock at any time within the three-year period immediately before the date of determination.. All of these factors could materially adversely affect the price of our common stock."
