[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into our other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In such an event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations.. Risks Related to Our Business. We have a limited operating history, are not profitable and may never become profitable.. We are a development stage biopharmaceutical company. Since our formation in September 2012, our operations have been limited to the identification of product candidates and research and development of our product candidates, including our lead product candidates, Zimeta and Mirataz. As a result, we have limited historical operations upon which to evaluate our business and prospects and have not yet demonstrated an ability to obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates or successfully overcome the risks and. 17. Table of Contents. uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in emerging fields such as the pet therapeutics industry. We also have not generated any revenue to date, and continue to incur significant research and development and other expenses.  As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $112.0 million.  For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to incur losses, which will increase significantly from historical levels as we expand our product development activities, seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates and begin to commercialize them if they are approved by the Center for Veterinary Medicine branch of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, or USDA, or the European Medicines Agency, or EMA. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more product candidates, we expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never become profitable. If we fail to achieve or maintain profitability, it would adversely affect the value of our common stock.. We will have no material product revenue for the foreseeable future, and we may need to raise additional capital to achieve our goals.. Until, and unless, we receive approval from the FDA, USDA or EMA, as applicable, for one or more of our product candidates, we cannot market or sell our products in the United States or in the European Union, or EU, and will have no material product revenue. We have submitted to the FDA all technical sections of the NADA for our drug product candidates, Zimeta and Mirataz. Although we received the technical sections complete letter for effectiveness and safety from the FDA for both Zimeta and Mirataz, we are still waiting for responses on our CMC technical section. Our other small molecule product candidates will require from three to five years of further development at a cost of an average of approximately $5 million per product candidate and our biologics candidates will require four to six years of further development at an average cost of approximately $8 million per product candidate before we expect to be able to apply for marketing approval in the United States. We also are actively involved in identifying additional human therapeutics for development and commercialization as pet therapeutics, and will continue to expend substantial resources for the foreseeable future to develop our current product candidates and any other product candidates we may develop or acquire. These expenditures will include: costs of identifying additional potential product candidates; costs associated with drug formulation; costs associated with conducting pilot, pivotal, and toxicology studies; costs associated with completing other research and development activities; costs associated with payments to technology licensors and maintaining other intellectual property; costs of obtaining regulatory approvals; costs associated with establishing commercial manufacturing and supply capabilities; and costs associated with marketing and selling any of our products approved for sale. We also may incur unanticipated costs. Because the outcome of our development activities and commercialization efforts is inherently uncertain, the actual amounts necessary to successfully complete the development and commercialization of our current or future product candidates may be greater or less than we anticipate.. We believe we have sufficient cash and cash equivalents to fund our operating plan through the anticipated approval and launch of our lead product candidates. However, we may seek additional funds through public or private equity or debt financings or other sources such as strategic collaborations.  Additionally, we do not expect our existing cash and cash equivalents to be sufficient to complete the development of all of our current product candidates, or of any additional product candidates that we may identify, and we may need to raise additional capital to fund these activities.  Even if we believe we have sufficient funds on hand for our current or planned future business and operations, we may seek from time to time to raise additional capital based upon favorable market conditions or strategic considerations such as potential acquisitions.. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including, but not limited to:. • the scope, progress, results and costs of researching and developing our current or future product candidates;. • the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining regulatory approvals for any of our current or future product candidates;. 18. Table of Contents. • the number and characteristics of the product candidates we pursue;. • the cost of manufacturing our current and future product candidates and any products we successfully commercialize;. • the cost of commercialization activities if any of our current or future product candidates are approved for sale, including marketing, sales and distribution costs;. • the expenses needed to attract and retain skilled personnel;. • the costs associated with being a public company;. • our ability to establish and maintain strategic collaborations, licensing or other arrangements and the financial terms of such agreements; and. • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing possible patent claims, including litigation costs and the outcome of any such litigation.. Additional funds may not be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate one or more of our product development programs or any future commercialization efforts.. We are substantially dependent on the success of our lead product candidates, and cannot be certain that any of them will be approved for marketing or successfully commercialized even if approved.. We have no product approved for sale in any jurisdiction. Our current efforts are, and a substantial portion of our efforts over the foreseeable future will be, primarily focused on our lead product candidates, Zimeta and Mirataz, and on the progress of other product candidates that are in our pipeline.  We discontinued our previous lead product candidates, SentiKind and CereKin, as a result of not meeting their primary endpoints.  We also re-assessed our atopic dermatitis program and the atopic dermatitis market and decided to discontinue our AtoKin study in order to redirect our resources toward other programs in our portfolio.  Accordingly, our near-term prospects, including our ability to generate material product revenue, obtain any new financing if needed to fund our business and operations, or enter into potential strategic transactions, will depend heavily on the successful development and commercialization of one or more of our lead candidates, which in turn will depend on a number of factors, including the following:. • the successful completion of the pivotal trials and toxicology studies of one or more of our current product candidates, which may take significantly longer than we currently anticipate and will depend, in part, upon the satisfactory performance of third-party contractors;. • our ability to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA, the USDA and the EMA the safety and efficacy of our product candidates and to obtain regulatory approvals;. • the ability of our third-party manufacturers to manufacture supplies of any of our product candidates and to develop, validate and maintain viable commercial manufacturing processes that are compliant with Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP;. • our ability to successfully launch commercial sales of our current product candidates, assuming marketing approval is obtained, whether alone or in collaboration with others;. • the availability, perceived advantages, relative cost, relative safety and relative efficacy of our products compared to alternative and competing treatments;. • the acceptance of our product candidates as safe and effective by veterinarians, pet owners and the animal health community;. 19. Table of Contents. • our ability to achieve and maintain compliance with all regulatory requirements applicable to our business; and. • our ability to obtain and enforce our intellectual property rights and obtain marketing exclusivity for our product candidates, and avoid or prevail in any third-party patent interference, patent infringement claims or administrative patent proceedings initiated by third parties or the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO.. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing or commercializing one or more of our lead product candidates. If we are unsuccessful or are significantly delayed in developing and commercializing Zimeta and Mirataz or any of our other current or future product candidates, our business and prospects will be materially adversely affected and you may lose all or a portion of the value of your investment in our common stock.. Most of our current and future small molecule product candidates are or will be based on generic human drugs, and other companies may develop substantially similar products that may compete with our products.. Most of the small molecule product candidates we are currently developing or expect to develop are based on generic human drugs. We do not engage in early-stage research or discovery with respect to our small molecule product candidates, but focus primarily on product candidates whose active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, has been successfully commercialized or demonstrated to be safe or effective in human trials, which we sometimes refer to as validated. There is little, if any, third-party patent protection of the active ingredient in most of our current small molecule product candidates, and this means that our small molecule product candidates may face competition from their human generic equivalents in countries where such equivalents are available and used in unapproved animal indications, which is known as extra-label use.. While in most cases we select product candidates that are not available as a human generic in the United States, in cases where there is a human generic available there is no assurance that the eventual prices of our products will be lower than or competitive with the prices of human generic equivalents used extra-label, or that a palatable, easy-to-administer formulation such as the chewable, beef-flavored formulation that we utilize will be sufficient to differentiate them from their human equivalents. Human generics available outside the United States cannot be imported into the United States for use in animals, except on a case-by-case basis where the FDA determines it is medically necessary.. In most cases, we target small molecule product candidates for which the active ingredients have not been previously approved for use in animals. If we are the first to gain approval for the use of such active ingredients in animals, our small molecule products will enjoy five years of marketing exclusivity in the United States and ten years in the EU for the approved indication. We also plan to differentiate our products where possible with specific formulations, including flavors, methods of administration, new patents and other strategies, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to prevent competitors from developing substantially similar products and bringing those products to market earlier than we can. In addition, while we expect to have composition of matter patents on most of our biologic product candidates, we may not ultimately be able to obtain such patents. Although there are no generic regulatory approval pathways for animal biologics in the United States and European Economic Area, or EEA, our competitors may develop biologics that bind to the same target, but do not infringe any patents we may obtain. Thus, our competitors may be able to develop and market competing products if they are willing and able to conduct the full set of required studies, file a New Animal Drug Application, or NADA, with the FDA, or Application for United States Veterinary Biological Product License with the USDA, also called a Product License Application, or PLA, and obtain marketing approval. If such competing products achieve regulatory approval and commercialization prior to our product candidates, or if our intellectual property protection and efforts to obtain regulatory exclusivity fail to provide us with exclusive marketing rights for some of our products, then our business and prospects could be materially adversely affected.. 20. Table of Contents. If our product candidates are approved, they may face significant competition and may be unable to compete effectively.. The development and commercialization of pet therapeutics is highly competitive and our success depends on our ability to compete effectively with other products in the market. If our product candidates are approved, we expect to compete with animal health divisions of major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies such as Merck Animal Health, Elanco, Bayer Animal Health, and Boehringer Ingelheim Animal Health, as well as specialty animal health medicines companies such as Zoetis, Virbac Group, Ceva Animal Health and Dechra Pharmaceuticals. Additionally, we are aware of several early-stage companies that are developing products for use in the pet therapeutics market, including Aratana Therapeutics Inc. and Jaguar Health, Inc.  We also expect to compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies and private organizations that are conducting research in the field of animal health medicines.. If approved, Zimeta will face competition from existing products approved for treatment of horses such as Banamine. Mirtazapine, the active ingredient in Mirataz, is widely used today from human generic and compounded formulations. Many of our product candidates also will face competition from various products approved for use in humans that are used extra-label in animals, and all of our products will face potential competition from new products in development. These and other potential competing products may benefit from greater brand recognition and brand loyalty than our product candidates may achieve.. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially more financial, technical and human resources than we do. Many also have far more experience than we have in the development, manufacture, regulation and worldwide commercialization of animal health medicines, including pet therapeutics. We also expect to compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies and private organizations that are conducting research in the field of animal health medicines.. For these reasons, there is no assurance that we and our products can compete effectively.. The development of our biologic product candidates is dependent upon relatively novel technologies and uncertain regulatory pathways.. We plan to develop biologics, including animal antibodies, for pets. Identification, optimization, and manufacture of therapeutic animal biologics is a relatively new field in which unanticipated difficulties or challenges could arise, and we expect the discovery, development, manufacturing and sale of biologic products to be a long, expensive and uncertain process. While many biologics have been approved for use in humans, apart from vaccines, relatively few recombinant proteins or antibodies have been approved for use in animals. There are unique risks and uncertainties with biologics, the development, manufacturing, and sale of which are subject to regulations that are often more complex and extensive than the regulations applicable to other small molecule products. We may be unable to identify biologics suitable for development or to achieve the potency and stability required for use in pets. In particular, canine, feline, and equine antibodies represent new types of product candidates that may be difficult to develop successfully.. In some cases, it may be unclear whether our product candidates meet the definition of a biological product subject to regulation by the USDA or a drug subject to regulation by the FDA. The USDA's Center for Veterinary Biologics and the FDA's Center for Veterinary Medicine have a memorandum of understanding concerning their joint responsibilities for resolving jurisdictional issues over products of this nature. Under the memorandum of understanding, animal products are to be regulated by the USDA as biologics, if they are intended for use to diagnose, cure, mitigate, treat, or prevent disease in animals and they work primarily through an immune process, or by the FDA as drugs, if they are intended for use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of animal disease if the primary mechanism of action is not immunological or is undefined.. Although we believe that most of our current animal biologics will be regulated by the USDA based on their mechanisms of action, the USDA and the FDA may not agree with our assessment, or disputes may. 21. Table of Contents. arise between the USDA and the FDA over regulatory jurisdiction for one or more of such biologics. If so, the development of our biologics may be delayed while any such disputes are adjudicated by the agencies. Furthermore, if the agencies were to determine that one or more of our animal biologics will be regulated by the FDA instead of the USDA, the time and cost of developing such biologics may be longer and more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may determine to discontinue development of such biologics. It is also possible that the USDA's regulatory standards for novel biologics may be more difficult to satisfy than we anticipate.  The current trend indicates that the FDA is attempting to exert jurisdiction over more biologics.. Because the regulatory standards for pet biologics are often less stringent than for small molecule animal drugs, we believe that some veterinarians prefer to see further efficacy data before making a new biologic product purchasing decision. Accordingly, we may also find it necessary to conduct additional studies of our biologic product candidates in order to achieve commercial success.. The results of earlier studies may not be predictive of the results of our pivotal trials, and we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for our existing or future product candidates under applicable regulatory requirements. The denial or delay of any regulatory approval would prevent or delay our commercialization efforts and adversely affect our potential to generate material product revenue and our financial condition and results of operations.. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, sale, marketing and distribution of pet therapeutics are subject to extensive regulation. We are usually not permitted to market our products in the United States until we receive approval of an NADA from the FDA or a PLA from the USDA, or in the EU or in other EEA countries until we receive marketing approval from the EMA. To gain approval to market a pet therapeutic for a particular species, we must provide the FDA, the USDA and the EMA, as applicable, with efficacy data from pivotal trials that adequately demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective in the target species (e.g., dogs, cats or horses) for the intended indications. In addition, we must provide manufacturing data. For the FDA and EMA, we must provide data from toxicology studies, also called target animal safety studies, and in some cases environmental impact data. We are conducting the pivotal trial of our compounds internally without significant outsourcing, but we rely on contract research organizations, or CROs, and other third parties to conduct our toxicology studies and for certain other development activities. The results of toxicology studies and other initial development activities, and of any previous studies in humans or animals conducted by us or third parties, may not be predictive of future results of pivotal trials or other future studies, and failure can occur at any time during the conduct of pivotal trials and other development activities by us or our CROs. Our pivotal trial may fail to show the desired safety or efficacy of our product candidates despite promising initial data or the results in previous human or animal studies conducted by others, and success of a product candidate in prior animal studies, or in the treatment of human beings, does not ensure success in subsequent studies. Clinical trials in humans and pivotal trials in animals sometimes fail to show a benefit even for drugs that are effective, because of statistical limitations in the design of the trials or other statistical anomalies. Therefore, even if our studies and other development activities are completed as planned, the results may not be sufficient to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates.. The FDA, USDA or EMA can delay, limit or deny approval of any of our product candidates for many reasons, including:. • if the FDA, USDA or EMA disagrees with our interpretation of data from our pivotal studies or other development efforts;. • if we are unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA, USDA or EMA that the product candidate is safe and effective for the target indication;. • if the FDA, USDA or EMA requires additional studies or changes its approval policies or regulations;. 22. Table of Contents. • if the FDA, USDA or EMA does not approve of the formulation, labeling or the specifications of our current and future product candidates; and. • if the FDA, USDA or EMA fails to approve the manufacturing processes of our third-party contract manufacturers.. Further, even if we receive approval of our product candidates, such approval may be for a more limited indication than we originally requested, and the FDA, USDA or EMA may not approve the labeling that we believe is necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates.. Any delay or failure in obtaining applicable regulatory approval for the intended indications of our product candidates would delay or prevent commercialization of such product candidates and would materially adversely impact our business and prospects.. Our Protocol Concurrences with the FDA for our pivotal studies do not guarantee marketing approval in the United States.. We may conduct pivotal trials under Protocol Concurrences with the FDA.  A Protocol Concurrence in animal drug development is analogous to a Special Protocol Assessment in human drug development, and means that the FDA agrees that the design and analyses proposed in a protocol are acceptable to support regulatory approval of the product candidate with respect to effectiveness of the indication studied and will not change its view of these matters, unless public or animal health concerns arise that were not recognized at the time of protocol concurrence or we change the protocol.  Even under a Protocol Concurrence, approval of an NADA by the FDA is not guaranteed, because a final determination that the agreed-upon protocol satisfies a specific objective, such as the demonstration of efficacy, or supports an approval decision, will be based on a complete review of all the data submitted to the FDA.. Development of pet therapeutics is inherently expensive, time-consuming and uncertain, and any delay or discontinuance of our current or future pivotal trials would significantly harm our business and prospects.. Development of pet therapeutics remains an inherently lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and there is no assurance that our development activities will be successful. We do not know whether the trials of our current or future product candidates will begin or conclude on time, and they may be delayed or discontinued for a variety of reasons, including if we are unable to:. • address any safety concerns that arise during the course of the studies;. • complete the studies due to deviations from the study protocols or the occurrence of adverse events;. • add new study sites;. • address any conflicts with new or existing laws or regulations; or. • reach agreement on acceptable terms with study sites, which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different sites.. Any delays in completing our development efforts will increase our costs, delay our product candidate development and approval process and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenue. Any of these occurrences may significantly harm our business, financial condition and prospects. In addition, factors that may cause a delay in the commencement or completion of our development efforts may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our product candidates which, as described above, would materially, adversely impact our business and prospects.. We currently rely on third parties to conduct some of our development activities, and may rely more heavily on such third parties in the future. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual. 23. Table of Contents. duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our current or future product candidates as planned.. We currently plan to conduct our own pivotal trials, but we rely upon CROs to conduct our toxicology studies and for other development activities. We also may rely on CROs in the future to conduct one or more pivotal trials. These CROs are not our employees, and except for contractual duties and obligations, we have limited ability to control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs or manage the risks associated with their activities on our behalf. We are responsible to regulatory authorities for ensuring that each of our studies is conducted in accordance with the development plans and trial protocols, and any failure by our CROs to do so may adversely affect our ability to obtain regulatory approvals, subject us to penalties, or harm our credibility with regulators. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities also require us and our CROs to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, or GCPs, or good laboratory practices, or GLPs, for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of our studies to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate.. Our agreements with CROs may allow termination by the CROs in certain circumstances with little or no advance notice to us. These agreements generally will require our CROs to reasonably cooperate with us at our expense for an orderly winding down of the CROs' services under the agreements. If the CROs conducting our studies do not comply with their contractual duties or obligations to us, or if they experience work stoppages, do not meet expected deadlines, terminate their agreements with us or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our development protocols or GCPs or for any other reason, we may need to secure new arrangements with alternative CROs, which could be difficult and costly. In such event, our studies also may need to be extended, delayed or terminated as a result, or may need to be repeated. If any of the foregoing were to occur, regulatory approval and commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed and we may be required to expend substantial additional resources.. Even if we obtain regulatory approval of one or more of our current or future product candidates, they may never achieve market acceptance or commercial success.. If we obtain FDA, USDA or EMA approvals for one or more of our current or future product candidates, they may not achieve market acceptance among veterinarians and pet owners, and may not be commercially successful. Market acceptance of any of our current or future product candidates for which we may receive approval depends on a number of factors, including:. • the indications for which our products are approved;. • the potential and perceived advantages of our product candidates over alternative treatments, including generic medicines and competing products currently prescribed by veterinarians, and products approved for use in humans that are used extra-label in animals;. • the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments and willingness on the part of veterinarians and pet owners to pay for our products, including other discretionary items, especially during economically challenging times;. • the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects of our products;. • the relative convenience and ease of administration of our products;. • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; and. • the proper training and administration of our products by veterinarians and acceptance by veterinarians and pet owners of our products as safe and effective.. 24. Table of Contents. Any failure by our product candidates that obtain regulatory approval to achieve market acceptance or commercial success would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Pet therapeutics, like human therapeutics, are subject to unanticipated post-approval safety or efficacy concerns, which may harm our business and reputation.. The success of our commercialization efforts will depend upon the perceived safety and effectiveness of pet therapeutics, in general, and of our products, in particular. Unanticipated safety or efficacy concerns can arise with respect to approved pet therapeutics after they enter into commerce, which may result in product recalls or withdrawals or suspension of sales, as well as product liability and other claims. Because reliable detection of rare events might require exposure of millions of animals, it is not possible to rule out the risk until well after the launch of the product.. It is also possible that the occurrence of significant adverse side effects in approved human generic compounds upon which our product candidates are based could impact our products. Any safety or efficacy concerns, or recalls, withdrawals or suspensions of sales of our products or other pet therapeutics, or of their human equivalents, could harm our reputation, in particular, or pet therapeutics, generally, and materially, adversely affect our business and prospects or the potential growth of the pet therapeutics industry, regardless of whether such concerns or actions are justified.. Future federal and state legislation may result in increased exposure to product liability claims, which could result in substantial losses to us.. Under current federal and state laws, pets are generally considered to be personal property of their pet owners and, as such, pet owners' recovery for product liability claims involving their pets may be limited to the replacement value of the pets. Pet owners and their advocates, however, have filed lawsuits from time to time seeking non-economic damages such as pain and suffering and emotional distress for harm to their pets based on theories applicable to personal injuries to humans. If new legislation is passed to allow recovery for such non-economic damages, or if precedents are set allowing for such recovery, we could be exposed to increased product liability claims that could result in substantial losses to us if successful. In addition, some horses can be worth millions of dollars or more, and product liability for horses may be very high.. It is also possible that our product liability insurance will not be sufficient to cover any future product liability claims against us.. If we fail to retain current members of our senior management, or to attract and keep additional key personnel, our business and prospects could be materially adversely impacted.. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel. We are highly dependent upon our senior management, particularly Richard Chin, M.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer, Denise Bevers, our Chief Operating Officer, Wendy Wee, our Chief Financial Officer and Hangjun Zhan, Ph.D., our Chief Scientific Officer. The loss of services of any of our key personnel could adversely affect our ability to successfully develop our current or future product pipeline and commercialize our product candidates. Although we have entered into employment agreements with these key members of senior management, such agreements generally do not prohibit them from leaving our employ at any time. We currently do not maintain \"key man\" life insurance on any of our senior management team. The loss of Dr. Chin or other members of our current senior management could adversely affect the timing or outcomes of our current and planned studies, as well as longer-term prospects for commercializing our product candidates.. In addition, competition for qualified personnel in the animal health fields is intense, because there is a limited number of individuals who are trained or experienced in the field. We will need to hire additional personnel as we expand our product development and commercialization activities, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all.. 25. Table of Contents. We are dependent upon third-party manufacturers for supplies of our current product candidates, and intend to rely on third-party manufacturers for commercial quantities of any of our product candidates that may be approved.. We currently have no internal capability to manufacture the formulated small molecule product candidates for use in our studies or commercial supplies of any of our product candidates that may be approved, and will be dependent upon third-party manufacturers for such supplies. We and our contract manufacturers have historically been able to obtain supplies of the API for development of our small molecule product candidates, but neither we nor our contract manufacturers have long-term supply agreements with the API manufacturers. We also have no agreements for commercial-scale supply of the API or manufacture of any of our product candidates. As a result, we and our contract manufacturers may be unable to procure API in a timely manner on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any delay in identifying and contracting with third-party contract manufacturers on commercially reasonable terms would have an adverse impact upon our current product development activities and future commercialization efforts.. The facilities used by our contract manufacturers to manufacture the drugs are subject to inspections by the FDA, USDA, and the EMA, and we depend on our contract manufacturers to comply with GMP or other applicable regulatory standards. If our contract manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material in compliance with these strict regulatory requirements, we and they will not be able to secure or maintain regulatory approval for their manufacturing facilities. In some cases, we also are dependent on our contract manufacturers to produce supplies in conformity to our specifications and maintain quality control and quality assurance practices and not to employ disqualified personnel. If the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority does not approve the manufacturing facilities of our contract manufacturers, or if it withdraws any such approval in the future, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which could result in delays in, or adversely affect our ability to, develop or commercialize our product candidates. We and our contract manufacturers also may be subject to penalties and sanctions from the FDA and other regulatory authorities for any violations of applicable regulatory requirements. The USDA and EMA employ different regulatory standards than the FDA, so we may require multiple manufacturing processes and facilities for the same product candidate or any approved product.. The commercialization of any of our product candidates could be adversely affected if we are unable to secure sufficient quantities and quality of drug products in a timely manner.. The raw materials used to manufacture our current small molecule product candidates are generally readily available in commercial quantities from multiple suppliers, but we will be dependent upon our contract manufacturers to obtain these raw materials. If manufacturers are unable to do so as and when they are needed to supply our development and commercial needs, we will have no other means of producing our product candidates until they are able to do so or we or they procure alternative supplies of the API. If our third-party manufacturers suffer damage or destruction to their facilities or equipment, we may experience disruptions in supplies, or be unable to obtain supplies of product candidates on a timely basis. Any inability to secure sufficient quantities and quality of the API or other raw materials in our products candidates would adversely impact our development activities and commercialization efforts. In some cases, contract manufacturers may be reluctant to manufacture the API in pet therapeutics, because of regulatory or other concerns. This may make it more difficult for us to identify manufacturers needed to supply sufficient quantities of our product candidates for development.. Biologics manufacturing is difficult and costly, and may not be commercially viable.. There are no established sources of the active ingredients in our biologic product candidates, so we or our collaborators will be required to develop the manufacturing process, perform validation and in some cases establish new facilities to manufacture pet biologics. Manufacturing of pet biologics, apart from vaccines, is a relatively new field in which unanticipated difficulties or challenges could arise. Small changes in the manufacturing process can have significant impact on product quality, consistency and yield. Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is complex and may require the use of innovative technologies that we. 26. Table of Contents. may need to develop ourselves or in conjunction with third-party collaborators. Such manufacturing requires facilities specifically designed and validated for this purpose and sophisticated quality assurance and quality control procedures. Biologics are also usually costly to manufacture, because production usually requires the use of living organisms. Factors such as these may make it more technically challenging, time-consuming and expensive than we anticipate to manufacture biologics. Animal antibodies also must be manufactured at a sufficiently low cost that they are economically viable for us and for our customers.We are building a manufacturing plant for biologics manufacturing. There may be unanticipated issues in the construction and commissioning of the plant, including cost overruns, timeline delays, and other technical or regulatory issues. In addition, if we build a manufacturing plant and it is not utilized to full capacity, it may result in increased annual costs and increase in cost of goods. There is no assurance that we will be able to manufacture biologics at an economical cost, if at all.. Once completed, the facilities used to manufacture the biologics are subject to inspections by the FDA, USDA, and the EMA. If we cannot successfully manufacture material in compliance with these strict regulatory requirements, we will not be able to secure or maintain regulatory approval for the manufacturing facility. If the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority does not approve the manufacturing facilities, or if it withdraws any such approval in the future, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which could result in delays in, or adversely affect our ability to, develop or commercialize our product candidates. We also may be subject to penalties and sanctions from the FDA and other regulatory authorities for any violations of applicable regulatory requirements. The USDA and EMA employ different regulatory standards than the FDA, so we may require multiple manufacturing processes and facilities for the same product candidate or any approved product.. If we are unable to establish sales capabilities on our own or through third parties, we may not be able to market and sell our current or future product candidates, if approved, and generate product revenue.. We currently have no proven sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. If our current or future product candidates receive regulatory approval, we expect to establish a direct sales organization in the United States and to utilize distributors to commercialize our products, which will be expensive and time-consuming. In jurisdictions outside of the United States we intend to utilize companies with an established commercial presence to market our products in those jurisdictions, but we may be unable to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. We have no prior experience in the marketing, sale and distribution of pet therapeutics or other products, and there are significant risks involved in building and managing a sales organization, including our potential inability to hire, retain and motivate qualified individuals, generate sufficient sales leads, provide adequate training to sales and marketing personnel and effectively oversee a geographically-dispersed sales and marketing team. Any failure or delay in the development of our internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities and entry into adequate arrangements with distributors would adversely impact the commercialization of our product candidates. If we are not successful in commercializing any of our current or future product candidates, either on our own or through one or more distributors, we may never generate significant revenue and may continue to incur significant losses, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. If we are not successful in identifying, developing, and commercializing additional product candidates, our ability to expand our business and achieve our strategic objectives would be impaired.. A key element of our strategy is to identify, develop and commercialize a portfolio of products to serve the emerging pet therapeutics market. We expect to identify additional potential pet therapeutic product candidates from targets, molecules, and compounds discovered or developed as part of human biopharmaceutical research. Ideally, we try to identify product candidates that are free from any intellectual property rights of others. If we are unable to identify human health-generated molecules and compounds to conduct research and development, our ability to develop new products could be limited. In addition, we may in the future enter into license agreements with third parties to provide us with rights to the compounds for purposes of our business. Even if we enter into these arrangements, we may not be able to maintain these relationships or establish new ones in the future on acceptable terms, or at all.. 27. Table of Contents. Even if we successfully identify or license potential product candidates, we may still fail to yield product candidates for development and commercialization for many reasons, including the following:. • product candidates we develop may be covered by third parties' patents or other exclusive rights unknown to us;. • a product candidate may on further study be shown to have harmful side effects in pets or other characteristics that indicate it is unlikely to be effective or otherwise does not meet applicable regulatory criteria;. • a product candidate may not be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost, or at all;. • a product candidate may not be accepted as safe and effective by veterinarians, pet owners and the pet therapeutic community; and. • competitors may develop alternatives that render our product candidates obsolete.. Failure to identify further product candidates ultimately suitable for development and commercialization would have an adverse impact on our growth strategy and future business prospects.. Changes in distribution channels for pet therapeutics may make it more difficult or expensive to distribute our products.. In the United States, pet owners typically purchase their pet therapeutics from their local veterinarians who also prescribe such therapeutics. There is a trend, however, toward increased purchases of pet therapeutics from Internet-based retailers, \"big-box\" retail stores and other over-the-counter distribution channels, which follows a significant shift in recent years away from the traditional veterinarian distribution channel in the sale of parasiticides and vaccines. It is also possible that pet owners may come to rely increasingly on internet-based animal health information rather than on their veterinarians. We currently expect to market our pet therapeutics directly to veterinarians, so any reduced reliance on veterinarians by pet owners could materially adversely affect our business and prospects. Pet owners also may substitute human health products for pet therapeutics if the human health products are less expensive or more readily available, which substitution also could adversely affect our business.. Legislation has been or may be proposed in the United States or abroad that would require veterinarians to provide pet owners with written prescriptions and disclosures that the pet owner has the right to fill the prescriptions through other means. If enacted, such legislation could lead to a reduction in the number of pet owners who purchase their pet therapeutics directly from veterinarians, which also could adversely affect our business.. While most of our biologic products will be delivered by injection and therefore may be insulated to a degree from competition from non-veterinary dispensing, for our small molecule products, over time, these and other competitive conditions may make us reliant upon Internet-based retailers, \"big-box\" retail stores or other over-the-counter distribution channels, for which we have no current or planned business relationships, to sell our pet products. Any of these events could materially adversely affect our business and prospects or require us to dramatically change our marketing and distribution strategies, which may not be feasible or successful.. Consolidation of our customers could negatively affect the pricing of our products.. Veterinarians will be our primary customers for any approved products. In recent years, there has been a trend towards the consolidation of veterinary clinics and animal hospitals. If this trend continues, these large clinics and hospitals could attempt to leverage their buying power to obtain favorable pricing from us and other pet therapeutics companies. Any resulting downward pressure on the prices of any of our approved products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 28. Table of Contents. We will need to increase the size of our organization and may not successfully manage our growth.. As of February 28, 2018, we had 76 employees, and our management systems currently in place may not be adequate to support our future growth, if any. Our ability to manage our growth effectively will require us to hire, train, retain, manage and motivate additional employees and to implement and improve our operational, financial and management systems. These demands also may require the hiring of additional senior management personnel or the development of additional expertise by our senior management personnel. If we fail to expand and enhance our operational, financial and management systems in conjunction with our potential future growth, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our research and development relies on evaluations in animals, which is controversial and may become subject to bans or additional regulations.. The evaluation of our product candidates in target animals is required to develop and commercialize our product candidates. Although our animal testing will be subject to GLP and GCP requirements, as applicable, animal testing in the human pharmaceutical industry and in other industries has been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity.  Some organizations and individuals have sought to ban animal testing or encourage the adoption of additional regulations applicable to animal testing. To the extent that such bans or regulations are imposed, our research and development activities, and by extension our operating results and financial condition, could be materially adversely affected. In addition, negative publicity about animal practices by us or in our industry could harm our reputation among potential customers for our products.. If approved, our product candidates may be marketed in the United States only in the target animals and for the indications for which they are approved, and if we want to expand the approved animals or indications, we will need to obtain additional FDA or USDA approvals, which may not be granted.. If our product candidates are approved by regulatory authorities, we may market or advertise them only in the specific species and for treatment of the specific indications for which they were approved, which could limit use of the products by veterinarians and pet owners. We intend to develop, promote and commercialize one or more of our current product candidates for other animals and new treatment indications in the future, but there is no assurance whether or at what additional time and expense we will be able to do so. If we do not obtain marketing approvals for other animals or for new indications, our ability to expand our business may be adversely affected.. Use of a drug outside its cleared or approved indications in the animal context is known as extra-label use. Under the Animal Medicinal Drug Use Clarification Act of 1994, or AMDUCA, veterinarians are permitted to prescribe extra-label uses of certain approved animal drugs and approved human drugs for animals under certain conditions. Thus, although veterinarians may in the future prescribe and use human-approved products or our products for extra-label uses, we may not promote our products for extra-label uses. If the FDA determines that any of our marketing activities constitute promotion of an extra-label use, it could subject us to regulatory enforcement, which could have an adverse impact on our reputation and potential liability to us.. The commercial potential of a product candidate in development is difficult to predict. The market for our product candidates, or for the pet therapeutics industry as a whole, is uncertain and may be smaller than we anticipate, which could significantly and negatively impact our revenue, results of operations and financial condition.. It is very difficult to estimate the commercial potential of any of our product candidates because of the emerging nature of our industry as a whole. The pet therapeutics market continues to evolve and it is difficult to predict the market potential for what we believe to be the unmet medical needs of pets. The market will depend on important factors such as safety and efficacy compared to other available treatments, including potential human generic therapeutic alternatives with similar efficacy profiles, changing standards of care,. 29. Table of Contents. preferences of veterinarians, the willingness of pet owners to pay for such products, and the availability of competitive alternatives that may emerge either during the product development process or after commercial introduction. If the market potential for our product candidates is less than we anticipate due to one or more of these factors, it could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, the willingness of pet owners to pay for our product candidates, if approved, may be less than we anticipate, and may be negatively affected by overall economic conditions. The current penetration of pet insurance in the United States is low, pet owners are likely to have to pay for our products, if at all, out-of-pocket, and pet owners may not be willing or able to pay for any approved products of ours.. We may acquire other businesses or form joint ventures that may be unsuccessful and could adversely dilute your ownership of our company.. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of other complementary assets and businesses  and may also pursue strategic alliances. Our company has no experience in acquiring other assets or businesses and has limited experience in forming such alliances.  We may not be able to successfully integrate any acquisitions into our existing business, and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities or become subject to possible stockholder claims in connection with any related-party or third-party acquisitions or other transactions. We also could experience adverse effects on our reported results of operations from acquisition-related charges, amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles and impairment charges relating to write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets from time to time following an acquisition. Integration of an acquired company requires management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, technology license or strategic alliance.. To finance future acquisitions, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock as consideration, which would dilute your ownership interest in us. Alternatively, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and, in the case of equity financings, may result in dilution to our stockholders.. Risks Related to Intellectual Property. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on obtaining and maintaining patent protection for our products.. In so far as our business strategy is to develop successful human drugs and biologics for veterinary use, our ability to obtain a proprietary intellectual property position for our products is uncertain. We do not have any issued patents for our lead product candidates at this time.  However, we have filed patent applications covering various aspects of our drug and biological candidates in animals.  Our patent applications may never result in the issuance of patents, and/or patents issued to us may be dominated by the patents of third parties, including, for example, patents issued to analogous human drug or biological compositions and their usages.  Furthermore, even if they are unchallenged by third parties, our patents, if issued, may not adequately protect our intellectual property or prevent others from designing around their claims.  In order to commercialize our drug and biological candidates in one or more species, we could be required to enter into third party licenses or, if a license is not available on terms that we consider reasonable, we could be required to cease development or commercialization of one or more of our drug or biologic products or product candidates.  Thus, if we cannot obtain ownership of issued patents covering our product candidates, our business and prospects would be adversely affected.. It is possible that no patents will issue to us to cover our approved products, and/ or that we will have little to no commercial protection against competing products.  In such cases, we would then rely solely on other forms of exclusivity, such as regulatory exclusivity provided by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, if available, which may provide less protection to our competitive position.. Recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of any patents that issue. On September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act. 30. Table of Contents. includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted, redefine prior art, may affect patent litigation, and switch the U.S. patent system from a \"first-to-invent\" system to a \"first-to-file\" system. Under a \"first-to-file\" system, assuming the other requirements for patentability are met, the first inventor to file a patent application generally will be entitled to the patent on an invention regardless of whether another inventor had made the invention earlier. The USPTO recently developed new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act, and in particular, the first-to-file provisions, only became effective on March 16, 2013. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of any patents that issue, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. We may become subject to third parties' claims alleging infringement of patents and proprietary rights or priority of invention, which would be costly, time-consuming and, if successfully asserted against us, delay or prevent the development and commercialization of our current or future product candidates.. There has been substantial litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights in the field of therapeutics, as well as patent challenge proceedings, including interference and administrative law proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, and oppositions and other comparable proceedings in foreign jurisdictions. Under U.S. patent reform laws, new procedures, including inter partes review and post-grant review, were implemented as of March 16, 2013, and the implementation of such reform laws presents uncertainty regarding the outcome of any challenges to our future patents, if any. We are aware of several issued patents and pending patent applications with claims directed to long-acting or extended-release pharmaceutical formulations and uses of the same small molecules as in some of our small molecule product candidates, and other patents and pending patent applications with claims directed to pharmaceutical formulations and use of human biologics conceptually similar to some of our biologics product candidates. There also may be other patents already issued of which we are unaware that might be infringed by one of our current or future product candidates. Because patent applications can take many years to issue and may be confidential for eighteen months or more after filing, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware and which may later result in issued patents that may be infringed by our current or future product candidates. There is no assurance that our current or future product candidates will not infringe these or other existing or future third-party patents. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents.. To the extent we become subject to future third-party claims against us or our collaborators, we could incur substantial expenses and, if any such claims are successful, we could be liable to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorney's fees if we or our collaborators are found to be willfully infringing a third-party's patents. If a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product candidate that is the subject of the suit. Even if we are successful in defending such claims, infringement and other intellectual property claims can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and divert management's attention from our business and operations. As a result of or in order to avoid potential patent infringement claims, we or our collaborators may be compelled to seek a license from a third party for which we would be required to pay license fees or royalties, or both. Moreover, these licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain such a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could allow our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Any of these events could harm our business and prospects.. In addition to possible infringement claims against us, we may be subject to third-party preissuance submission of prior art to the USPTO, or become involved in opposition, derivation, reexamination, inter partes review, post-grant review, or other patent office proceedings or litigation in the United States or elsewhere, challenging our patent rights or the patent rights of others. If third parties have prepared and filed patent applications in the United States that also claim technology to which we have rights, we may have to. 31. Table of Contents. participate in interference proceedings in the USPTO to determine the priority of invention. We may also become involved in similar opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office or similar offices in other jurisdictions regarding our intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. An adverse determination in any such submission, proceeding or litigation could reduce the scope of, or invalidate, our future patent rights, if any, allow third parties to commercialize our technology or products and compete directly with us, without payment to us, or result in our inability to manufacture or commercialize products without infringing third-party patent rights.. If our efforts to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to any of our current or future product candidates are not adequate, we may not be able to compete effectively in our market.. We intend to rely upon a combination of regulatory exclusivity periods, patents, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements, and license agreements to protect the intellectual property related to our current product candidates and our development programs.. Composition-of-matter patents on the active ingredients in pharmaceutical products, including pet therapeutics, are generally considered to be the strongest form of intellectual property protection, since such patents provide protection without regard to any particular method of use or manufacture. Because all of our current small molecule product candidates are based on generic human drugs, we do not have composition-of-matter patents for the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) in our small molecule product candidates, and there is little, if any, such composition-of-matter patent protection available for the API in such product candidates. Moreover, we cannot be certain that the claims in our patent applications covering composition-of-matter of our biologics product candidates will be considered patentable by the USPTO and courts in the United States, or by the patent offices and courts in foreign countries.. Method-of-use patents protect the use of a product for the specified method. This type of patent does not prevent a competitor from developing or marketing an identical product for an indication that is outside the scope of the patented method. Moreover, even if competitors do not actively promote their product for our targeted indications for which we may obtain patents, veterinarians may recommend that pet owners use these products extra-label, or pet owners may do so themselves. Although extra-label use may infringe or contribute to the infringement of method-of-use patents, the practice is common and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute.. If the breadth or strength of protection provided by any patent applications or future patents we may own, in-license, or pursue with respect to any of our current or future product candidates is threatened, it could threaten our ability to commercialize any of our current or future product candidates. Further, if we encounter delays in our development efforts, the period of time during which we could market any of our current or future product candidates under any patent protection we obtain would be reduced.. Even where laws provide protection or we are able to obtain patents, costly and time-consuming litigation may be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and the outcome of such litigation would be uncertain. Moreover, any actions we may bring to enforce our intellectual property against our competitors could provoke them to bring counterclaims against us, and some of our competitors have substantially greater intellectual property portfolios than we have.. We also rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that is not patentable or for which we have not filed patent applications, processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and other elements of our product development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information or technology that is not covered by patents. Although we require all of our employees to assign their inventions to us, and endeavor to execute confidentiality agreements with all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information or technology, we cannot be certain that we have executed such agreements with all parties who may have helped to develop our intellectual property or had access to our proprietary information, or that our agreements will not be breached. We cannot guarantee that our trade secrets and other confidential proprietary information will. 32. Table of Contents. not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. If we are unable to prevent material disclosure of the intellectual property related to our technologies to third parties, we will not be able to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in our market, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Any disclosure to or misappropriation by third parties of our confidential proprietary information could enable competitors to quickly duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, thus eroding our competitive position in our market.. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce any future patents issued to us, which could be expensive, time-consuming and unsuccessful.. Competitors may infringe any patents that may issue to us, or any patents that we may license. To counter infringement or unauthorized use of any patents we may obtain, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate. In addition, if we or one of our future collaborators were to initiate legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent covering our current product candidates, or one of our future products, the defendant could counterclaim that the patent is invalid or unenforceable. In patent litigation in the United States, defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity or unenforceability are commonplace. Grounds for a validity challenge could be an alleged failure to meet any of several statutory requirements, including lack of novelty, obviousness or non-enablement. Grounds for an unenforceability assertion could be an allegation that someone connected with prosecution of the patent withheld relevant information from the USPTO, or made a materially misleading statement, during prosecution. Third parties may also raise similar claims before the USPTO, even outside the context of litigation. The outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability is unpredictable. We cannot be certain that there is no invalidating prior art, of which we and the patent examiner were unaware during prosecution. If a defendant were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity or unenforceability, we would lose at least part, and perhaps all, of any future patent protection on our current or future product candidates. Such a loss of patent protection could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Litigation proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be unsuccessful, it could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Finally, we may not be able to prevent, alone or with the support of our licensors, misappropriation of our trade secrets or confidential information, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the United States.. Changes in U.S. patent law could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products.. As is the case with other biopharmaceutical companies, our success is heavily dependent on intellectual property, particularly patents. Obtaining and enforcing patents in the biopharmaceutical industry involves both technological and legal complexity. Therefore, obtaining and enforcing biopharmaceutical patents is costly, time-consuming and inherently uncertain. In addition, the United States has recently enacted and is currently implementing wide-ranging patent reform legislation. The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future, this combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the USPTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable. 33. Table of Contents. ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce patents that we might obtain in the future.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on product candidates throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and, further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we may obtain patent protection, but where patent enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These products may compete with our products in jurisdictions where we do not have any issued or licensed patents and any future patent claims or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from so competing.. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biopharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our future patents, if any, or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the United States. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the United States and abroad. Proceedings to enforce our future patent rights, if any, in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business.. We have one registered US trademark and one allowed US trademark for our current product candidate KINDLET, as well as one registered trademark for KINDLET in Europe. Additionally, we have five other registered trademarks outside the US,  nine other trademark applications pending in the US, two pending European trademark applications, one pending Japanese trademark application, and three pending Canadian trademark applications. We have no registered trademarks for our company name or for our other current product candidates in the United States or any other countries, and failure to obtain those registrations could adversely affect our business.. Six of our US pending trademark applications have received Notices of Allowance and are awaiting their first use in commerce prior to Registration. One US trademark application is currently being examined, one European trademark application is currently being examined, and the remaining two pending US trademark applications, the three Canadian trademark applications, the European trademark application, and the Japanese trademark application are awaiting examination. Accordingly, while various of our pending trademark applications have been allowed but not yet registered, various other of our pending US and foreign trademark applications have neither been allowed nor registered. During trademark registration proceedings, we may receive rejections. If so, we will have an opportunity to respond, but we may be unable to overcome such rejections. In addition, USPTO and comparable agencies in many foreign jurisdictions may permit third parties to oppose pending trademark applications and to seek to cancel registered trademarks. If opposition or cancellation proceedings are filed against any of our trademark applications or any registered trademarks, our trademarks may not survive such proceedings. Moreover, any name we propose to use with our product candidates in the United States must be approved by the FDA or the USDA, regardless of whether we have registered or applied to register as a trademark. The FDA typically conducts a review of proposed product names, including an evaluation of potential for confusion with other product names. If the FDA or the USDA objects to any of our proposed proprietary product names, we may be required to expend significant additional resources in an effort to identify a suitable substitute name that would qualify under applicable trademark laws, not infringe the existing rights of third parties and be acceptable to the FDA or USDA.. We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information of third parties.. 34. Table of Contents. We have received confidential and proprietary information from third parties. In addition, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology, pharmaceutical or animal health companies. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees, consultants or independent contractors have inadvertently or otherwise improperly used or disclosed confidential information of these third parties or our employees' former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against any such claims. Even if we are successful in defending against any such claims, such litigation could result in substantial cost and be a distraction to our management and employees.. Risks Related to Government Regulation. Even if we receive regulatory approval for any of our current or future product candidates, we will be subject to ongoing FDA, USDA, and EMA obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense. Additionally, any product candidates, if approved, will be subject to labeling and manufacturing requirements and could be subject to other restrictions. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unanticipated problems with our products could result in significant penalties.. If the FDA, USDA, or EMA approves any of our current or future product candidates, the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for the product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, establishment registration, and product listing, as well as continued compliance with GMP, GLP and GCP for any studies that we conduct post-approval. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with our third-party manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things:. • restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, withdrawal of the product from the market, or voluntary product recalls;. • fines, warning letters or holds on target animal studies;. • refusal by the FDA, USDA, or EMA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our strategic collaborators, or suspension or revocation of product license approvals;. • product seizure or detention, or refusal to permit the import or export of products; and. • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.. The FDA, USDA, or EMA's policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would adversely affect our business.. If approved, any of our current or future products may cause or contribute to adverse medical events that we are required to report to regulatory authorities and, if we fail to do so, we could be subject to sanctions that would materially harm our business.. If we are successful in commercializing any of our current or future product candidates, at least certain regulatory authorities will require that we report certain information about adverse medical events if those products may have caused or contributed to those adverse events. The timing of our obligation to report would be triggered by the date we become aware of the adverse event as well as the nature of the event. We may fail. 35. Table of Contents. to report adverse events we become aware of within the prescribed timeframe. We may also fail to appreciate that we have become aware of a reportable adverse event, especially if it is not reported to us as an adverse event or if it is an adverse event that is unexpected or removed in time from the use of our products. If we fail to comply with our reporting obligations, the regulatory authorities could take action including criminal prosecution, seizure of our products or delay in approval or clearance of future products.. Legislative or regulatory reforms with respect to pet therapeutics may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory clearance or approval of any of our current or future product candidates and to produce, market, and distribute our products after clearance or approval is obtained.. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in the U.S. Congress or EU that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the testing, regulatory clearance or approval, manufacture, and marketing of regulated products. In addition, FDA and USDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA and USDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. Similar changes in laws or regulations can occur in other countries. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations in the United States or in other countries may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of any of our current or future product candidates. We cannot determine what effect changes in regulations, statutes, legal interpretation or policies, when and if promulgated, enacted or adopted may have on our business in the future. Such changes could, among other things, require:. • changes to manufacturing methods;. • recall, replacement, or discontinuance of certain products; and. • additional record keeping.. Each of these would likely entail substantial time and cost and could materially harm our financial results. In addition, delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory clearances or approvals for any future products would harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Certain of our product candidates currently in development may be classified as controlled substances, the manufacture, use, sale, importation, exportation, and distribution of which are subject to additional regulation by state, federal, and foreign law enforcement and other regulatory agencies.. Certain of our product candidates may be subject to regulation as controlled substances under the federal Controlled Substances Act of 1970, or CSA, and regulations of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA. The DEA regulates controlled substances as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances. Schedule I substances by definition have no established medicinal use and may not be marketed or sold in the United States. An animal drug product may be listed as Schedule II, III, IV or V, with Schedule II substances considered to present the highest risk of abuse and Schedule V substances the lowest relative risk of abuse among such substances.. Various states also independently regulate controlled substances. Though state controlled substances laws often mirror federal law, because the states are separate jurisdictions, they may separately schedule drugs as well. While some states automatically schedule a drug when the DEA does so, in other states there must be rulemaking or a legislative action. State scheduling may delay commercial sale of any controlled substance drug product for which we obtain federal regulatory approval and adverse scheduling could impair the commercial attractiveness of such product. We would also be required to obtain separate state registrations in order to be able to obtain, handle and distribute controlled substances for target animal studies, and failure to meet applicable regulatory requirements could lead to enforcement and sanctions from the states in addition to those from the DEA or otherwise arising under federal law.. For any of our product candidates classified as controlled substances, we and our suppliers, manufacturers, contractors, customers and distributors will be required to obtain and maintain applicable registrations from state, federal and foreign law enforcement and regulatory agencies and comply with state,. 36. Table of Contents. federal and foreign laws and regulations regarding the manufacture, use, sale, importation, exportation and distribution of controlled substances. There is a risk that DEA regulations may limit the supply of the compounds used in pivotal trials of our product candidates, and, in the future, the ability to produce and distribute our products in the volume needed to meet commercial demand.. Regulations associated with controlled substances govern manufacturing, labeling, packaging, testing, dispensing, production and procurement quotas, recordkeeping, reporting, handling, shipment and disposal. These regulations increase the personnel needs and the expense associated with development and commercialization of product candidates containing controlled substances. The DEA and some states conduct periodic inspections of registered establishments that handle controlled substances. Failure to obtain and maintain required registrations or comply with any applicable regulations could delay or preclude us from developing and commercializing our product candidates containing controlled substances and subject us to enforcement action. The DEA may seek civil penalties, refuse to renew necessary registrations or initiate proceedings to revoke those registrations. In some circumstances, violations could lead to criminal proceedings. Because of their restrictive nature, these regulations could limit commercialization of any of our product candidates that are classified as controlled substances.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock could be subject to volatility related or unrelated to our operations.. Our stock prices and the market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in general have been highly volatile, with recent significant price and volume fluctuations, and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. Since our initial public offering in December 2013, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $2.90 to a high of $26.99.  The trading price may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include those discussed previously in this \"Risk Factors\" section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and others, such as:. • any delays in, or suspension or failure of, our current and future studies;. • announcements of regulatory approval or disapproval of any of our current or future product candidates or of regulatory actions affecting us or our industry;. • delays in the commercialization of our current or future product candidates;. • manufacturing and supply issues related to our development programs and commercialization of our current or future product candidates;. • quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors;. • changes in our earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts or adverse publicity regarding us or our product candidates;. • announcements by us or our competitors of new product candidates, significant contracts, commercial relationships, acquisitions or capital commitments;. • announcements relating to future development or license agreements including termination of such agreements;. • adverse developments with respect to our intellectual property rights or those of our principal collaborators;. • commencement of litigation involving us or our competitors;. • any major changes in our board of directors or management;. 37. Table of Contents. • new legislation in the United States relating to the prescription, sale, distribution or pricing of pet therapeutics;. • product liability claims, other litigation or public concern about the safety of our product candidates or future products;. • market conditions in the animal health industry, in general, or in the pet therapeutics sector, in particular, including performance of our competitors; and. • general economic conditions in the United States and abroad.. In addition, the stock market, in general, or the market for stocks in our industry, in particular, may experience broad market fluctuations, which may adversely affect the market price or liquidity of our common stock. Any sudden decline in the market price of our common stock could trigger securities class-action lawsuits against us. If any of our stockholders were to bring such a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and the time and attention of our management would be diverted from our business and operations. We also could be subject to damages claims if we are found to be at fault in connection with a decline in our stock price.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our company, or if they issue adverse or misleading opinions regarding us or our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. Although we have research coverage by securities and industry analysts, if coverage is not maintained, the market price for our stock may be adversely affected. Our stock price also may decline if any analyst who covers us issues an adverse or erroneous opinion regarding us, our business model, our intellectual property or our stock performance, or if our target animal studies and operating results fail to meet analysts' expectations. If one or more analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline and possibly adversely affect our ability to engage in future financings.. Our principal stockholders and management own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval.. As of December 31, 2017, our executive officers, directors, holders of 5% or more of our capital stock and their respective affiliates beneficially own in the aggregate approximately 42% of our outstanding shares of common stock, excluding shares they may acquire upon exercise of stock options they hold.  As a result of their stock ownership, these stockholders may have the ability to influence our management and policies, and will be able to significantly affect the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval such as elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents or approvals of any merger, sale of assets or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that you may feel are in your best interest as one of our stockholders.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the listing standards of the NASDAQ Stock Market. We expect that the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly, and place significant strain on our personnel, systems and resources.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We are continuing to develop and refine our. 38. Table of Contents. disclosure controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we will file with the SEC is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms, and that information required to be disclosed in reports under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to our principal executive and financial officers. We are also continuing to improve our internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we have expended, and anticipate that we will continue to expend, significant resources, including accounting-related costs and significant management oversight.. Our current controls and any new controls that we develop may become inadequate because of changes in conditions in our business. Further, weaknesses in our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial reporting may be discovered in the future. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and may result in a restatement of our financial statements for prior periods. Any failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting also could adversely affect the results of management evaluations of our internal control over financial reporting that we are required to include in our periodic reports that we file with the SEC. Ineffective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market.. Any failure to maintain effective disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting could have a material and adverse effect on our business and operating results, and cause a decline in the price of our common stock.  So long as we remain an emerging growth company, we will not be required to obtain an attestation report from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding our internal control over financial reporting, which might make it more difficult for us to identify weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting.. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable and may lead to entrenchment of management.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include the following:. • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors;. • no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;. • the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors;. • the ability of our board of directors to authorize the issuance of shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could adversely affect the rights of our common stockholders or be used to deter a possible acquisition of our company;. • the ability of our board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval;. 39. Table of Contents. • the required approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or repeal the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors;. • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;. • the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, the president or the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and. • advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.. These provisions could inhibit or prevent possible transactions that some stockholders may consider attractive.. We are also subject to the anti-takeover provisions contained in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under Section 203, a corporation generally may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other exceptions, the board of directors has approved the transaction.. Our stockholder rights agreement could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable and may lead to an entrenchment of management.. On May 19, 2017, our board of directors approved and adopted a rights agreement with American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, as rights agent, and, on July 24, 2017, our stockholders approved the adoption of the rights agreement. The rights agreement is intended to protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair proposals to acquire control of KindredBio by significantly diluting the ownership interest of any person who acquires at least 20% of our outstanding common stock by providing all other stockholders with the right to acquire additional shares of our preferred stock or common stock at a significant discount. Although the rights agreement is intended to encourage an acquiring person to negotiate a proposed merger or other business combination with our board of directors and management, it could discourage a takeover transaction that stockholders may consider favorable and may lead to an entrenchment of management.. Our amended and restated by-laws designate the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees.. Our amended and restated by-laws provide that, unless we consent in writing to an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or (iv) any action asserting a claim that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in any shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to this provision of our amended and restated by-laws. This choice-of-forum provision may limit our stockholders' ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits. Alternatively, if a court were to find this provision of our amended and restated by-laws inapplicable or unenforceable with respect to one or more of the specified types. 40. Table of Contents. of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and the ability of investors in our common stock to achieve a return on their investment will depend on appreciation in the market price of our common stock.. We currently intend to invest any future earnings to fund our growth and not to pay any cash dividends on our common stock. Since we do not intend to pay dividends, the ability of investors in our common stock to receive a return on their investment will depend on any appreciation in the market price of our common stock. There is no assurance that our common stock will appreciate in price.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to \"emerging growth companies\" will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions and relief from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies.\" In particular, while we are an \"emerging growth company\" (i) we will not be required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (ii) we will be exempt from any rules that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board requiring mandatory audit firm rotations or a supplement to the auditor's report on financial statements, (iii) we will be subject to reduced disclosure  obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and (iv) we will not be required to hold nonbinding advisory votes on executive compensation or stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can delay its adoption of any new or revised accounting standards, but we have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. We may remain an \"emerging growth company\" until as late as December 31, 2018 (the fiscal year-end following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering), though we may cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" earlier under certain circumstances, including (i) if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any June 30, in which case we would cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" as of the following December 31, or (ii) if our gross revenue exceeds $1 billion in any fiscal year.. The exact implications of the JOBS Act are still subject to interpretations and guidance by the SEC and other regulatory agencies, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to take advantage of all of the benefits of the JOBS Act. In addition, investors may find our common stock less attractive if we rely on the exemptions and relief granted by the JOBS Act. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may decline and/or become more volatile.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited.. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes (such as research and development tax credits) to offset its post-change income and taxes may be limited. In general, an \"ownership change\" occurs if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by \"5% shareholders\" that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. If we experience one or more ownership changes as a result of future transactions in our stock, we may be limited in our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets to reduce taxes owed on the net taxable income that we earn. Any such limitations on the ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us.. 41. Table of Contents"
