[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors. The following risk factors should be considered carefully when evaluating the Company, as its businesses, results of operations, or financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The following discussion does not attempt to cover factors, such as trends in the United States and global economies or the level of interest rates, among others, that are likely to affect most businesses.. The Inland Waterway infrastructure is aging and may result in increased costs and disruptions to the Company's marine transportation segment. Maintenance of the United States inland waterway system is vital to the Company's operations. The system is composed of over 12,000 miles of commercially navigable waterway, supported by over 240 locks and dams designed to provide flood control, maintain pool levels of water in certain areas of the country and facilitate navigation on the inland river system. The United States inland waterway infrastructure is aging, with more than half of the locks over 50 years old. As a result, due to the age of the locks, scheduled and unscheduled maintenance outages may be more frequent in nature, resulting in delays and additional operating expenses. One-half of the cost of new construction and major rehabilitation of locks and dams is paid by marine transportation companies through a 29 cent per gallon diesel fuel tax and the remaining 50% is paid from general federal tax revenues. Failure of the federal government to adequately fund infrastructure maintenance and improvements in the future would have a negative impact on the Company's ability to deliver products for its customers on a timely basis. In addition, any additional user taxes that may be imposed in the future to fund infrastructure improvements would increase the Company's operating expenses.. The Company is subject to adverse weather conditions in its marine transportation and distribution and services segments. The Company's marine transportation segment is subject to weather conditions on a daily basis. Adverse weather conditions such as high or low water on the inland waterway systems, fog and ice, tropical storms, hurricanes and tsunamis on both the inland waterway systems and throughout the United States coastal waters can impair the operating efficiencies of the marine fleet. Such adverse weather conditions can cause a delay, diversion or postponement of shipments of products and are totally beyond the control of the Company. In addition, adverse water and weather conditions can negatively affect a towing vessel's performance, tow size, loading drafts, fleet efficiency, place limitations on night passages and dictate horsepower requirements. The Company's distribution and services segment is subject to tropical storms and hurricanes impacting its coastal locations and tornadoes impacting its Oklahoma facilities.. The Company could be adversely impacted by a marine accident or spill event. A marine accident or spill event could close a portion of the inland waterway system or a coastal area of the United States for a period of time. Although statistically marine transportation is the safest means of surface transportation of bulk commodities, accidents do occur, both involving Company equipment and equipment owned by other marine carriers.. 26. Table of Contents. The Company transports a wide variety of petrochemicals, black oil, refined petroleum products and agricultural chemicals throughout the Mississippi River System, on the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway, coastwise along all three United States coasts and in Alaska and Hawaii. The Company manages its exposure to losses from potential discharges of pollutants through the use of well-maintained and equipped tank barges and towing vessels, through safety, training and environmental programs, and through the Company's insurance program, but a discharge of pollutants by the Company could have an adverse effect on the Company.. The Company's marine transportation segment is dependent on its ability to adequately crew its towing vessels. The Company's towing vessels are crewed with employees who are licensed or certified by the USCG, including its captains, pilots, engineers and tankermen. The success of the Company's marine transportation segment is dependent on the Company's ability to adequately crew its towing vessels. As a result, the Company invests significant resources in training its crews and providing crew members an opportunity to advance from a deckhand to the captain of a Company towboat or tugboat. Lifestyle issues are a deterrent for employment for inland and coastal crew members. Inland crew members generally work a 20 days on, 10 days off rotation, or a 30 days on, 15 days off rotation. For the coastal fleet, crew members are generally required to work a 14 days on, 14 days off, 21 days on, 21 days off or 30 days on, 30 days off rotation, dependent upon the location. With ongoing retirements and competitive labor pressure in the marine transportation segment, the Company continues to monitor and implement market competitive pay practices. The Company also utilizes an internal development program to train Maritime Academy graduates for vessel leadership positions.. The Company's marine transportation segment has approximately 3,225 employees, of which approximately 2,500 are vessel crew members. None of the segment's inland operations are subject to collective bargaining agreements. The segment's coastal operations include approximately 750 vessel employees, of whom approximately 420 are subject to collective bargaining agreements in certain geographic areas. Any work stoppages or labor disputes could adversely affect coastal operations in those areas.. The Company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses, and any inability to do so may adversely affect the Company's business and hinder its ability to grow. The Company has made asset and business acquisitions in the past and may continue to make acquisitions of assets or businesses in the future that complement or expand the Company's current business. The Company may not be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. Even if attractive acquisition opportunities are identified, the Company may not be able to complete the acquisition or do so on commercially acceptable terms. The success of any completed acquisition depends on the Company's ability to integrate the acquired assets or business effectively into the Company's existing operations. The process of integrating acquired assets or businesses may involve difficulties that require a disproportionate amount of the Company's managerial and financial resources to resolve. The value of acquired assets or businesses may be negatively impacted by a variety of circumstances unknown to the Company prior to the acquisition. In addition, possible future acquisitions may be larger and for purchase prices significantly higher than those paid for earlier acquisitions. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms, obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. The Company's failure to achieve consolidation savings, to integrate successfully the acquired businesses and assets into the Company's existing operations, or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, agreements governing the Company's indebtedness from time to time may impose certain limitations on the Company's ability to undertake acquisitions or make investments or may limit the Company's ability to incur certain indebtedness and liens, which could limit the Company's ability to make acquisitions.. The Company's failure to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") could have a negative impact on its ongoing operations. The Company's operations outside the United States require the Company to comply with a number of United States and international regulations. For example, its operations in countries outside the United States are subject to the FCPA, which prohibits United States companies or their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity, or obtain any unfair advantage. The Company has internal control policies and procedures and has implemented training and compliance programs for its employees and agents with respect to the FCPA. However, the Company's policies, procedures and programs may not always protect it from reckless or criminal acts committed by its employees or agents, and severe criminal or civil sanctions could be the result of violations of the FCPA. The Company is also subject to the risks that its employees, joint venture partners, and agents outside of the United States may fail to comply with other applicable laws.. 27. Table of Contents. The Company's marine transportation segment is subject to the Jones Act. The Company's marine transportation segment competes principally in markets subject to the Jones Act, a federal cabotage law that restricts domestic marine transportation in the United States to vessels built and registered in the United States, and manned and owned by United States citizens. The Company presently meets all of the requirements of the Jones Act for its vessels. The loss of Jones Act status could have a significant negative effect on the Company. The requirements that the Company's vessels be United States built and manned by United States citizens, the crewing requirements and material requirements of the USCG, and the application of United States labor and tax laws increases the cost of United States flag vessels when compared with comparable foreign flag vessels. The Company's business could be adversely affected if the Jones Act or international trade agreements or laws were to be modified as to permit foreign competition that is not subject to the same United States government imposed burdens. Since the events of September 11, 2001, the United States government has taken steps to increase security of United States ports, coastal waters and inland waterways. The Company believes that it is unlikely that the current cabotage provisions of the Jones Act would be modified or eliminated in the foreseeable future.. The Secretary of Homeland Security is vested with the authority and discretion to waive the Jones Act to such extent and upon such terms as the Secretary may prescribe whenever the Secretary deems that such action is necessary in the interest of national defense. On September 8, 2017, following Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, the Department of Homeland Security issued a waiver of the Jones Act for a 7-day period for shipments from New York, Pennsylvania, Texas and Louisiana to South Carolina, Georgia, Florida and Puerto Rico.  The waiver was specifically tailored to address the transportation of refined petroleum products due to disruptions in hurricane-affected areas.  On September 11, 2017, the waiver was extended for 11 days and expanded to include additional states.  Following Hurricane Maria, on September 28, 2017, the Department of Homeland Security issued a waiver of the Jones Act for movement of products shipped from United States coastwise points to Puerto Rico through October 18, 2017. Waivers of the Jones Act, whether in response to natural disasters or otherwise, could result in increased competition from foreign tank vessel operators, which could negatively impact the marine transportation segment.. The Company's marine transportation segment is subject to regulation by the USCG, federal laws, state laws and certain international conventions, as well as numerous environmental regulations. The majority of the Company's vessels are subject to inspection by the USCG and carry certificates of inspection. The crews employed by the Company aboard vessels are licensed or certified by the USCG. The Company is required by various governmental agencies to obtain licenses, certificates and permits for its vessels. The Company's operations are also affected by various United States and state regulations and legislation enacted for protection of the environment. The Company incurs significant expenses and capital expenditures to comply with applicable laws and regulations and any significant new regulation or legislation, including climate change laws or regulations, could have an adverse effect on the Company.. The Company is subject to risks associated with possible climate change legislation, regulation and international accords. Greenhouse gas emissions have increasingly become the subject of a large amount of international, national, regional, state and local attention. On December 7, 2009, the EPA furthered its focus on greenhouse gas emissions when it issued its endangerment finding in response to a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States. The EPA found that the emission of six greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide (which is emitted from the combustion of fossil fuels), may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health and welfare. Based on this finding, the EPA defined the mix of these six greenhouse gases to be \"air pollution\" subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act. Although the EPA has stated a preference that greenhouse gas regulation be based on new federal legislation rather than the existing Clean Air Act, many sources of greenhouse gas emissions may be regulated without the need for further legislation.. 28. Table of Contents. The United States Congress has considered in the past legislation that would create an economy-wide \"cap-and-trade\" system that would establish a limit (or cap) on overall greenhouse gas emissions and create a market for the purchase and sale of emissions permits or \"allowances.\" Any proposed cap-and-trade legislation would likely affect the chemical industry due to anticipated increases in energy costs as fuel providers pass on the cost of the emissions allowances, which they would be required to obtain under cap-and-trade to cover the emissions from fuel production and the eventual use of fuel by the Company or its energy suppliers. In addition, cap-and-trade proposals would likely increase the cost of energy, including purchases of diesel fuel, steam and electricity, and certain raw materials used or transported by the Company. Proposed domestic and international cap-and-trade systems could materially increase raw material and operating costs of the Company's customer base. Future environmental regulatory developments related to climate change in the United States that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases could result in financial impacts on the Company's operations that cannot be predicted with certainty at this time.. The Company's marine transportation segment is subject to volatility in the United States production of petrochemicals. For 2017, 56% of the marine transportation segment's revenues were from the movement of petrochemicals, including the movement of raw materials and feedstocks from one refinery or petrochemical plant to another, as well as the movement of more finished products to end users and terminals for export. During 2017, petrochemical volumes were relatively stable compared with 2016 and 2015. The United States petrochemical industry continues to benefit from a low-cost domestically produced natural gas feedstock advantage, producing strong volumes of raw materials and intermediate products for transportation between Gulf Coast petrochemical plants and the transportation of more finished products to terminals for both domestic consumers and for export destinations. In addition, approximately 30 new United States petrochemical projects, including expansion of existing plants or new plants, are scheduled to be completed during 2018 and 2019 which should provide additional movements for the marine transportation segment.  Higher natural gas prices and other factors could negatively impact the United States petrochemical industry and its production volumes, which would negatively impact the Company.. The Company's marine transportation segment could be adversely impacted by the construction of tank barges by its competitors. At the present time, there are an estimated 3,825 inland tank barges in the United States, of which the Company operates 998, or 26%. The number of tank barges peaked at an estimated 4,200 in 1982, slowly declined to 2,750 by 2003, and then gradually increased to an estimated 3,850 by the end of 2015 and 2016. At the end of 2017 the Company estimates there are approximately 3,825 inland tank barges.  The Company estimates that industry-wide approximately 260 tank barges were placed in service during 2015, of which 36 were for the Company, and 60 tank barges were retired, 18 of which were by the Company. The Company estimates that industry-wide approximately 100 tank barges were placed in service during 2016, of which five were by the Company, and 100 tank barges were retired, 50 of which were by the Company.  The Company estimates that industry-wide 75 tank barges were placed in service during 2017, of which five were by the Company, and 100 tank barges were retired, 54 of which were by the Company.  The increase for 2015 reflected the improved demand for inland petrochemical, refined petroleum products and black oil barges experienced in 2014 and federal tax incentives on new equipment. The decrease in the number of tank barges at the end of 2016 and 2017 reflected the industry-wide oversupply of tank barges.  The Company estimates that approximately 30 tank barges were ordered during 2017 for delivery throughout 2018, one of which is for the Company, and many older tank barges, including an expected 25 by the Company, will be retired, dependent on 2018 market conditions.. The long-term risk of an oversupply of inland tank barges may be mitigated by the fact that the inland tank barge industry has a mature fleet. Of the estimated 3,825 tank barges in the industry at the present time, approximately 500 are over 30 years old and approximately 250 of those over 40 years old. Given the age profile of the industry inland tank barge fleet, the expectation is that older tank barges will continue to be removed from service and replaced by new tank barges as needed, with the extent of both retirements and new builds dependent on petrochemical and refinery production levels and crude oil and natural gas condensate movements, both of which can have a direct effect on industry-wide tank barge utilization, as well as term and spot contract rates.. 29. Table of Contents. During the majority of 2015, the coastal operations reflected improvements in market conditions with tank barge utilization in the 90% to 95% range, occasionally declining to the high-80% level during portions of the 2015 fourth quarter. During the majority of 2015, the Company experienced increased demand for coastal crude oil and natural gas condensate moves and success in expanding the coastal customer base to include inland customers with coastal requirements. During the 2015 fourth quarter continuing throughout 2016 and 2017, a decline in crude oil and natural gas condensate transportation volumes increased available capacity and resulted in some reluctance among certain customers to extend term contracts, which led to an increase in the number of coastal vessels operating in the spot market. In addition, the Company and the industry added new coastal tank barge capacity during 2015, 2016 and 2017, with additional new capacity coming on-line in 2018 and 2019. Much of this new capacity is replacement capacity for older vessels anticipated to be retired.. The Company estimates there are approximately 290 tank barges operating in the 195,000 barrel or less coastal industry fleet, the sector of the market in which the Company operates, and approximately 20 of those are over 30 years old.  The Company took delivery of a new 185,000 barrel ATB in late 2015 and a second 185,000 barrel ATB in June 2016.  The Company also took delivery of a new 155,000 barrel ATB in November 2016 and a second 155,000 ATB in September 2017.  The Company also took delivery in December 2016 of a 35,000 barrel coastal petrochemical tank barge. The Company is aware of nine coastal tank barge and tugboat units placed in service in 2016 and seven in 2017 by competitors, and seven announced coastal tank barge and tugboat units under construction by competitors for delivery in 2018 and 2019. The Company removed from service 12 out-of-service coastal tank barges in the 2017 fourth quarter.  The coastal tank barges will be either scrapped or sold into international non-competing markets during 2018.. Higher fuel prices could increase operating expenses and fuel price volatility could reduce profitability. The cost of fuel during 2017 was approximately 9% of marine transportation revenue. All marine transportation term contracts contain fuel escalation clauses, or the customer pays for the fuel. However, there is generally a 30 to 90 day delay before contracts are adjusted depending on the specific contract. In general, the fuel escalation clauses are effective over the long-term in allowing the Company to adjust to changes in fuel costs due to fuel price changes; however, the short-term effectiveness of the fuel escalation clauses can be affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to, specific terms of the fuel escalation formulas, fuel price volatility, navigating conditions, tow sizes, trip routing, and the location of loading and discharge ports that may result in the Company over or under recovering its fuel costs. Spot contract rates generally reflect current fuel prices at the time the contract is signed but do not have escalators for fuel.. Loss of a large customer or other significant business relationship could adversely affect the Company. Four marine transportation customers accounted for approximately 20% of the Company's 2017, 25% of 2016 and 30% of 2015 revenue. The Company has contracts with these customers expiring in 2018 through 2021. Two distribution and services customers accounted for approximately 13% of the Company's 2017, 3% of 2016 and 7% of 2015 revenue. Although the Company considers its relationships with these companies to be strong, the loss of any of these customers could have an adverse effect on the Company.. The Company's distribution and services segment has a 52-year relationship with EMD, the largest manufacturer of medium-speed diesel engines. The Company, through Kirby Engine Systems, serves as both an EMD distributor and service center for select markets and locations for both service and parts. With the acquisition of S&S in September 2017, the Company added additional EMD exclusive distributorship rights in key states, primarily through the central, south and eastern areas of the United States. With the S&S acquisition, the Company became the United States distributor for EMD marine and power generation applications.  Sales and service of EMD products account for approximately 3% of the Company's revenues for 2017. Although the Company considers its relationship with EMD to be strong, the loss of the EMD distributorship and service rights, or a disruption of the supply of EMD parts, could have a negative impact on the Company's ability to service its customers.. 30. Table of Contents. United and S&S have maintained continuous exclusive distribution rights for MTU and Allison since the 1940s. United and S&S are two of MTU's top five distributors of off-highway engines in North America, with exclusive distribution rights in multiple states.  In addition, as distributors of Allison products, United and S&S have exclusive distribution rights in multiple key growth states. United and S&S are also the distributor for parts, service and warranty on Daimler truck engines and related equipment in multiple states. Sales and service of MTU and Allison products accounted for approximately 12% of the Company's revenues during 2017. Although the Company considers its relationships with MTU and Allison to be strong, the loss of MTU, Allison or Daimler distributorships and service rights, or a disruption of the supply of MTU or Allison parts, could have a negative impact on the Company's ability to service its customers.. The Company is subject to competition in both its marine transportation and distribution and services segments. The inland and coastal tank barge industry remains very competitive. The Company's primary competitors are noncaptive inland tank barge operators and coastal operators. The Company also competes with companies who operate refined product and petrochemical pipelines, railroad tank cars and tractor-trailer tank trucks. Increased competition from any significant expansion of or additions to facilities or equipment by the Company's competitors could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations.. The distribution and services industry is also very competitive. The segment's oil and gas market's principal competitors are independent distribution and service and oilfield manufacturing companies and other factory-authorized distributors and service centers. In addition, certain oilfield service companies that are customers of the Company also manufacture and service a portion of their own oilfield equipment. Increased competition in the distribution and services industry and continued low price of natural gas, crude oil or natural gas condensate, and resulting decline in drilling for such natural resources in North American shale formations, could result in less oilfield equipment being manufactured and remanufactured, lower rates for service and parts pricing and result in less manufacturing, remanufacturing, service and repair opportunities and parts sales for the Company. For the commercial and industrial market, the segment's primary marine diesel competitors are independent diesel services companies and other factory-authorized distributors, authorized service centers and authorized marine dealers. Certain operators of diesel powered marine equipment also elect to maintain in-house service capabilities. For power generation, the primary competitors are other independent service companies.. Significant increases in the construction cost of tank barges and towing vessels may limit the Company's ability to earn an adequate return on its investment in new tank barges and towing vessels. The price of steel increased significantly from 2006 to 2009, thereby increasing the construction cost of new tank barges and towing vessels. The Company's average construction price for a new 30,000 barrel capacity inland tank barge ordered in 2008 for 2009 delivery was approximately 90% higher than in 2000, primarily due to the increase in steel prices. During 2009, the United States and global recession negatively impacted demand levels for inland tank barges and as a result, the construction price of inland tank barges for 2010 delivery fell significantly, primarily due to a significant decrease in steel prices, as well as a decrease in the number of tank barges ordered. The average construction price for inland tank barges delivered since 2010 steadily increased until reaching its peak in early 2015, but remained below the construction price for tank barges delivered in 2009. Construction costs for inland tank barges ordered in 2016 for delivery in 2017, and ordered in 2017 for delivery in 2018 have declined, reflecting the current industry-wide over-capacity in the inland tank barge market and subsequent decline in the number of tank barges ordered for delivery in 2017 and 2018.. The Company's marine transportation segment could be adversely impacted by the failure of the Company's shipyard vendors to deliver new vessels according to contractually agreed delivery schedules and terms. The Company contracts with shipyards to build new vessels and currently has many vessels under construction. Construction projects are subject to risks of delay and cost overruns, resulting from shortages of equipment, materials and skilled labor; lack of shipyard availability; unforeseen design and engineering problems; work stoppages; weather interference; unanticipated cost increases; unscheduled delays in the delivery of material and equipment; and financial and other difficulties at shipyards including labor disputes, shipyard insolvency and inability to obtain necessary certifications and approvals. A significant delay in the construction of new vessels or a shipyard's inability to perform under the construction contract could negatively impact the Company's ability to fulfill contract commitments and to realize timely revenues with respect to vessels under construction. Significant cost overruns or delays for vessels under construction could also adversely affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 31. Table of Contents. The Company's distribution and services segment could be adversely impacted by future legislation or additional regulation of hydraulic fracturing practices. The Company, through its United and S & S subsidiaries, is a distributor and service provider of engine and transmission related products for the oil and gas services, power generation and transportation industries, and a manufacturer of oilfield service equipment, including pressure pumping units. The EPA is studying hydraulic fracturing practices, and legislation may be introduced in Congress that would authorize the EPA to impose additional regulations on hydraulic fracturing. In addition, a number of states have adopted or are evaluating the adoption of legislation or regulations governing hydraulic fracturing. Such federal or state legislation and/or regulations could materially impact customers' operations and greatly reduce or eliminate demand for the Company's pressure pumping fracturing equipment and related products. The Company is unable to predict whether future legislation or any other regulations will ultimately be enacted and, if so, the impact on the Company's distribution and services segment.. The Company relies on critical information systems for the operation of its businesses, and the failure of any critical information system, including a cyber-security breach, may adversely impact its businesses. The Company is dependent on its technology infrastructure and must maintain and rely upon critical information systems for the effective and safe operation of its businesses. These information systems include software applications and hardware equipment, as well as data networks and telecommunications.. The Company's information systems, including the Company's proprietary vessel management computer system, are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources, including but not limited to, natural disasters, software viruses, power failures and cyber-attacks. The Company has implemented measures such as emergency recovery processes, virus protection software, intrusion detection systems and annual attack and penetration audits to mitigate these risks. However, the Company cannot guarantee that its information systems cannot be damaged or compromised.. Any damage or compromise of its data security or its inability to use or access these critical information systems could adversely impact the efficient and safe operation of its businesses, or result in the failure to maintain the confidentiality of data of its customers or its employees and could subject the Company to increased operating expenses or legal action, which could have an adverse effect on the Company.. Prevailing natural gas and crude oil prices, as well as the volatility of their prices, could have an adverse effect on the Company's businesses. Demand for tank barge transportation services is driven by the production of volumes of the bulk liquid commodities such as petrochemicals, black oil and refined petroleum products that the Company transports by tank barge. This production can depend on the prevailing level of natural gas and crude oil prices, as well as the volatility of their prices.. In general, lower energy prices are good for the United States economy and typically translate into increased petrochemical and refined product production and therefore increased demand for tank barge transportation services. However, during 2015, 2016 and 2017 lower crude oil prices resulted in a decline in domestic crude oil and natural gas condensate production and reduced volumes to be transported by tank barge. The Company estimates that at the beginning of 2015 there were approximately 550 inland tank barges and 35 coastal tank barges in the 195,000 barrels or less category transporting crude oil and natural gas condensate. At the end of 2016, the Company estimated that approximately 140 inland tank barges and approximately ten coastal tank barges in the 195,000 barrel or less category were transporting such products, a reduction of approximately 410 inland tank barges and 25 coastal tank barges that have moved into other markets. At the end of 2017, the Company estimates that approximately 250 inland tank barges and approximately three coastal tank barges were transporting crude and natural gas condensate.  Volatility in the price of natural gas and crude oil can also result in heightened uncertainty which may lead to decreased production and delays in new petrochemical and refinery plant construction.  Increased competition for available black oil and petrochemical barge moves caused by reduced crude oil and natural gas condensate production could have an adverse impact on the Company's marine transportation segment.. 32. Table of Contents. Lower energy prices generally result in a decrease in the number of oil and gas wells being drilled. Oilfield service companies reduce their capital spending, resulting in decreased demand for new parts and equipment, including pressure pumping units, provided by the Company's distribution and services segment. This may also lead to order cancellations from customers or customers requesting to delay delivery of new equipment. The Company also services offshore supply vessels and offshore drillings rigs operating in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as internationally. Low energy prices may negatively impact the number of wells drilled in the Gulf of Mexico and international waters. In addition to the possibility that decreased energy prices may result in reduced demand for the Company's services, parts and equipment, energy price volatility may also result in difficulties in the Company's ability to ramp up and ramp down production on a timely basis and, therefore, could result in an adverse impact on the Company's distribution and services segment.. The Company's distribution and services segment could be adversely impacted by the construction of pressure pumping units by its competitors. In early 2015, an estimated 19.5 million horsepower of pressure pumping units were working in North America. By late 2016, the working horsepower in North America has declined to an estimated 9.0 million, with an estimated 4.5 million horsepower scrapped, an estimated 2.0 million horsepower available for work and an estimated 4.0 million horsepower stacked, the large majority of which would require major service before being placed back in service.  A significant drop in demand due to the low price of crude oil resulted in an oversupply in the pressure pumping market and negatively impacted the Company's 2015 and 2016 results of operations.  During late 2016 and 2017, with the stabilization of crude oil prices in the $40 to $60 per barrel range, the United States land rig count improved and service intensity in the well completion business increased.  As a result, the Company experienced a healthy rebound in service demand, particularly with pressure pumping unit remanufacturing and transmission overhauls, and with the acquisition of S&S in September 2017, the manufacture of oilfield service equipment, including pressure pumping units, and the sale of transmissions.  However, increased expansion of, or additions to, facilities or equipment by the Company's competitors could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations."
