[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report. We believe the risks and uncertainties described below are the most significant we face. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Relating to our Pending Merger with Cabot Microelectronics. Because the exchange ratio is fixed for the stock portion of the Merger Consideration and the market price of Cabot Microelectronics common stock has fluctuated and will continue to fluctuate, you cannot be sure of the value of the Merger Consideration you will receive.. Upon completion of the Merger, shares of our common stock will be converted into the right to receive $55.65 in cash, plus 0.2000 shares of Cabot Microelectronics common stock, in each case, without interest and less any applicable withholding taxes. The implied value of the per share Merger Consideration will fluctuate as the market price of Cabot Microelectronics common stock fluctuates because a portion of the per share Merger Consideration is payable in a fixed number of shares of Cabot Microelectronics common stock. The value of the stock portion of the Merger Consideration has fluctuated since the date of the announcement of the Merger Agreement and will continue to fluctuate to the date of the special meeting to approve the Merger and the date the Merger is. 4. completed and thereafter. Accordingly, at the time of the special meeting, our shareholders will not know or be able to determine the market value of the Merger Consideration they would receive upon completion of the Merger. Stock price changes may result from a variety of factors, including, among others, general market and economic conditions, changes in our and Cabot Microelectronics' respective businesses, operations and prospects, market assessments of the likelihood that the Merger will be completed, the timing of the Merger and regulatory considerations. Many of these factors are beyond our and Cabot Microelectronics' control.. Completion of the Merger is subject to the conditions contained in the Merger Agreement and if these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the Merger will not be completed.. Our and Cabot Microelectronics' obligations to complete the Merger are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions, including, among others, the approval of the Merger by our shareholders. Many of the conditions to the closing of the Merger are not within our or Cabot Microelectronics' control, and neither company can predict when or if these conditions will be satisfied. If any of these conditions are not satisfied or waived prior to February 14, 2019, which may be extended, under certain circumstances, to May 14, 2019, it is possible that the Merger Agreement will be terminated. The failure to satisfy all of the required conditions could delay the completion of the Merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. There can be no assurance that the conditions to the closing of the Merger will be satisfied or waived or that the merger will be completed.. The Merger Agreement limits our ability to pursue alternatives to the Merger and may discourage other companies from trying to acquire us.. The Merger Agreement contains provisions that make it more difficult for us to sell our business to a party other than Cabot Microelectronics. These provisions include a general prohibition on soliciting any company takeover proposal or offer for a competing transaction. In addition, upon termination of the Merger Agreement, we are required to pay Cabot Microelectronics a termination fee of $38,765,000 if the Merger Agreement is terminated in certain circumstances involving an adverse recommendation change or a willful and material breach of our non-solicitation obligations or certain obligations relating to our special meeting under the Merger Agreement.. These provisions could discourage a third party who might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of our business from considering or proposing that acquisition, even if that party were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share value than the value proposed to be received or realized in the Merger. These provisions might also result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower price than it might otherwise have proposed to pay because of the added expense of the termination fee that may become payable in certain circumstances.. The Merger Agreement subjects us to restrictions on our business activities.. The Merger Agreement subjects us to restrictions on our business activities and obligates us to generally operate our businesses in all material respects in the ordinary course. These restrictions could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.. Our business relationships may be subject to disruption due to uncertainty associated with the Merger, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position and, following the completion of the Merger, the combined company.. Parties with which we, or our subsidiaries, do business may be uncertain as to the effects on them of the Merger and related transactions, including with respect to current or future business relationships with us, our subsidiaries or the combined company following the Merger. These relationships may be subject to disruption as customers, suppliers and other persons with whom we have a business relationship may delay or defer certain business decisions or might decide to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationships with us, or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than us, our subsidiaries or the combined company. These disruptions could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position, or the combined company following the completion of the Merger. The risk, and adverse effect, of any disruption could be exacerbated by a delay in completion of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement.. Failure to complete the Merger could negatively affect our stock price and our future business and financial results.. If the Merger is not completed for any reason, including as a result of our shareholders failing to approve the Merger, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the Merger, we could be subject to a number of negative consequences, including, among others: we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on our stock price; we may experience negative reactions from our customers and suppliers; we may experience negative reactions from our employees and may not be able to retain key management personnel and other key employees; we will have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant non-recurring costs in connection with the Merger that we may be unable to recover; the Merger Agreement places certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completion of the. 5. Merger, the waiver of which is subject to the consent of Cabot Microelectronics, which may prevent us from making certain acquisitions, taking certain other specified actions or otherwise pursuing business opportunities during the pendency of the Merger that may be beneficial to us; and matters relating to the Merger (including integration planning) will require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, which could otherwise be devoted to day-to-day operations and other opportunities that may be beneficial to us as an independent company.. In addition, upon termination of the Merger Agreement, we are required to pay Cabot Microelectronics a termination fee of $38,765,000 if the Merger Agreement is terminated in certain circumstances involving an adverse recommendation change, a breach of our non-solicitation obligations or certain obligations relating to the special meeting under the Merger Agreement. Finally, we could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the Merger or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against us to perform our obligations under the Merger Agreement. If the Merger is not completed, any of these risks may materialize and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, financial results and stock price.. Lawsuits have been and may in the future be filed against us or our directors challenging the Merger, and an adverse ruling in any such lawsuit may prevent the Merger from becoming effective or from becoming effective within the expected timeframe.. Transactions like the Merger are frequently the subject of litigation or other legal proceedings, including actions alleging that our board of directors breached their respective fiduciary duties by entering into the Merger Agreement, by failing to obtain a greater value in the transaction for our shareholders or otherwise. We believe that any such litigation or proceedings would be without merit, but there can be no assurance that they will not be brought. If litigation or other legal proceedings are in fact brought against either us or against our board of directors, we will defend against it, but might not be successful in doing so. An adverse outcome in such matters, as well as the costs and efforts of a defense even if successful, could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operation or financial position of ours or the combined company, including through the possible diversion of our resources or distraction of key personnel.. Further, one of the conditions to the completion of the Merger is that no injunction by any court or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction will be in effect that temporarily or permanently prohibits, enjoins or makes illegal the consummation of the Merger. As such, if any of the plaintiffs are successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting the consummation of the Merger, that injunction may prevent the Merger from becoming effective or from becoming effective within the expected timeframe.. Risks Relating to Our Business. The industries in which we operate are competitive. This competition may affect our market share or prevent us from raising prices at the same pace as our costs increase, making it difficult for us to maintain existing business and win new business.. We operate in competitive markets. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources than we do. Additionally, new competitors may enter our markets. We may be required to reduce prices if our competitors reduce prices, or as a result of any other downward pressure on prices for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on us. In electronic chemicals, we compete with several very large, international companies. Our customers have regularly requested price decreases and maintaining or raising prices has been difficult over the past several years and will likely continue to be so in the near future. Competition in electronic chemicals is based on a number of factors, including price, freight economics, product quality and technical support. If we are unable to compete successfully, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The industries that we compete in are subject to economic downturns.. An economic downturn in the electronics industry as a whole or other events (e.g., labor disruptions) resulting in significantly reduced production at the manufacturing plants of our customers, could have a material adverse impact on the results of our electronic chemicals segment. Similarly, an economic downturn affecting utilities or the oil and gas industry could have a material adverse effect on demand in our performance materials segment.. A significant portion of our revenue and operating income are concentrated in a small number of customers.. We derive a significant portion of our revenues and operating income in our electronic chemicals and performance materials chemicals segments from sales of products to a small number of customers. As a result, the loss of Intel Corporation or another significant customer, or a material reduction of demand from any of those customers, could adversely affect our revenues and operating income.. 6. We may continue to pursue new acquisitions or joint ventures, and any such transaction could result in operating or management problems that adversely affect operating results. We remain subject to the ongoing risks of successfully integrating and managing the acquisitions, such as Flowchem, and joint ventures that are completed.. The acquisitions we make expose us to the risk of integrating that acquisition. An integration effort impacts various areas of our business, including our management, production facilities, information systems, accounting and financial reporting, and customer service. Disruption to any of these areas could materially harm our financial condition or results of operations.. The Merger Agreement limits our ability to pursue new acquisitions or joint ventures. If the Merger is not completed, we may continue to pursue new acquisitions or joint ventures, a pursuit which could consume substantial time and resources. The successful implementation of our operating strategy in current and future acquisitions and joint ventures may require substantial attention from our management team, which could divert management attention from existing businesses. The businesses acquired, or the joint ventures entered into, may not generate the cash flow and earnings, or yield the other benefits anticipated at the time of their acquisition or formation. The risks inherent in any such strategy could have an adverse impact on our results of operation or financial condition.. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for certain key materials, the loss of any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain key materials needed by our businesses, such as sulfuric, hydrofluoric and nitric acids, liquid nitrogen and olefin. Those suppliers are subject to a variety of operational and commercial constraints that can adversely impact our supply. If we were to lose suppliers for key materials, we might have difficulty securing a replacement supplier at reasonable cost, and no assurance can be given that such loss would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may experience increased costs and production delays if suppliers fail to deliver materials or if prices increase for raw materials and other goods and services that we purchase from third parties.. We purchase raw materials from a number of domestic and foreign suppliers. Although we believe that the raw materials we require will be available in sufficient supply on a competitive basis for the foreseeable future, increases in the cost of raw materials, including energy and other inputs used to make our products, could affect future sales volumes, prices and margins for our products. If a supplier should cease to deliver goods or services to us, we would in most cases find other sources. However, such a disruption could result in added cost and manufacturing delays. In addition, political instability, war, terrorism and other disruptions to international transit routes could adversely impact our ability to obtain key raw materials in a timely fashion, or at all.. Increases in the price of our primary raw materials may decrease our profitability and adversely affect our liquidity, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations.. The prices we pay for raw materials in our businesses may increase significantly, and we may not always be able to pass those increases through to our customers fully and timely. In the future, we may be unable to pass on increases in our raw material costs, and raw material price increases may erode the profitability of our products by reducing our gross profit. Price increases for raw materials may also increase our working capital needs, which could adversely affect our liquidity and cash flow. For these reasons, we cannot assure you that raw material cost increases in our businesses would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We have significant indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could lead to adverse consequences.. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including but not limited to:. •  increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. •  requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes;. •  limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, challenges and opportunities, and changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate;. •  limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements and other financing needs;. 7. •  increasing our vulnerability to increases in interest rates in general because a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates; and. •  placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt.. Our ability to make principal and interest payments on our debt is contingent on our future operating performance, which will depend on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control.. If we are unable to make debt payments or comply with the other provisions of our debt instruments, our lenders may be permitted under certain circumstances to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness owed to them and exercise other remedies provided for in those instruments and under applicable law.. Restrictions in our debt agreements could limit our growth and our ability to respond to changing conditions.. Our debt agreements contain a number of covenants which affect our ability to take certain actions and restrict our ability to incur additional debt. These include covenants that prohibit certain acquisitions that are not approved by our lenders and to maintain a consolidated net leverage ratio below an agreed level. These covenants may require us to take action to reduce our debt or take some other action to comply with them.. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that these restrictive covenants impose on us.. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the applicable debt agreement. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the debt outstanding under the agreement and in a default with respect to certain of our other agreements. The accelerated debt would become immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us.. The declaration of dividends by us is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, and limitations under Texas law and the Merger Agreement, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends.. We have a history of paying quarterly dividends on our common stock. The declaration of dividends by us is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors takes into account such matters as general business conditions, our business strategy, our financial results, expected liquidity and capital expenditure requirements, contractual, legal or regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends, the effect on our debt ratings and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant, and we can provide no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends on our common stock. Texas law contains certain restrictions on a company's ability to pay cash dividends and we can provide no assurance that those restrictions will not prevent us from paying a dividend in future periods. In addition, the Merger Agreement contains certain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends.. The implementation of our enterprise resource planning system at certain of our subsidiaries could cause a financial statement error not to be detected, and could take longer and be more costly than anticipated.. We are in the process of expanding our enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") system to certain of our subsidiaries. This is a complex process, and the new system will result in changes to our internal controls over financial reporting, including disclosure controls and procedures. The possibility exists that the migration to a new ERP system could adversely affect the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that the effort will not take longer or be more costly than currently believed.. 8. If we are unable to identify, fund and execute new acquisitions, we will not be able to execute a key element of our business strategy.. The Merger Agreement limits our ability to execute new acquisitions. If the Merger is not completed, we cannot give any assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses and product lines, or successfully integrate any acquired business or product line without substantial expenses, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. Financing for acquisitions may not be available, or may be available only at a cost or on terms and conditions that are unacceptable to us. Further, acquisitions may involve a number of special risks or effects, including diversion of management's attention, failure to retain key acquired personnel, unanticipated events or circumstances, legal liabilities, impairment of acquired intangible assets and other one-time or ongoing acquisition-related expenses. Some or all of these special risks or effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial and operating results. In addition, we cannot assure you that acquired businesses or product lines, if any, will achieve anticipated revenues and earnings.. The consideration we pay in connection with an acquisition also may affect our financial results. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash or obtain debt or equity financing. To the extent that we issue shares of our capital stock or other rights to purchase shares of our common stock as consideration for an acquisition or in connection with the financing of an acquisition, including options or other rights, our existing common shareholders may be diluted, and our earnings per share may decrease.. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations and may incur costs that have a material adverse effect on our financial condition as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations.. Like other companies involved in environmentally sensitive businesses, our operations and properties are subject to extensive and stringent federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those concerning, among other things:. •  the marketing, sale, use and registration of our chemical products, such as penta;. •  the treatment, storage and disposal of wastes;. •  the investigation and remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater;. •  the discharge of effluents into waterways;. •  the emission of substances into the air; and. •  other matters relating to environmental protection and various health and safety matters.. The EPA and other federal and state agencies in the United States, as well as comparable agencies in other countries where we have facilities or sell our products, have the authority to promulgate regulations that could have a material adverse impact on our operations. These environmental laws and regulations may require permits for certain types of operations, require the installation of expensive pollution control equipment, place restrictions upon operations or impose substantial liability for pollution resulting from our operations. We expend substantial funds to minimize the discharge of hazardous materials in the environment and to comply with governmental regulations relating to protection of the environment. Compliance with environmental and health and safety laws and regulations has resulted in ongoing costs for us, and could restrict our ability to modify or expand our facilities or continue production, or require us to install costly pollution control equipment or incur significant expenses, including remediation costs. We are currently involved in investigation and remediation activities at certain sites. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety laws or to address liabilities for contaminated facilities. Federal, state and foreign governmental authorities may seek fines and penalties, as well as injunctive relief, for violation of the various laws and governmental regulations, and could, among other things, impose liability on us for cleaning up the damage resulting from a release of pesticides, hazardous materials or other chemicals into the environment.. The classification of pentachlorophenol as a Persistent Organic Pollutant under the Stockholm Convention may adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell our penta products.. The Conference of the Parties (\"COP\"), comprising representatives from countries that have ratified the treaty known as the Stockholm Convention, met in May 2015 and considered the classification of penta as a persistent organic pollutant (\"POP\"). The COP accepted the recommendation of the United Nations Persistent Organic Pollutant Review Committee that the use of penta should be banned except that its use for the treatment of utility poles and crossarms could continue for an extended period of five to ten years. We supply penta to industrial customers who use it primarily to treat utility poles and crossarms. The United States is not bound by the determination of the COP because it did not ratify the Stockholm Convention treaty. Canada and Mexico are governed by the treaty. Our sole penta manufacturing facility is located in Matamoros, Mexico. As a result of the classification of penta as a POP, the Mexican government has requested that we relocate our penta manufacturing facility. We are in the process of identifying potential sites in the United States for such relocation. No assurance can be given that we will not incur significant expenditures in connection. 9. with such relocation, that we will find an adequate location within the required timeframe, or that the ultimate action of the COP will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation.. If the demand for the wood products on which our chemicals are used decreases, our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Our wood treating products are sold into relatively stable markets. However, demand for treated wood generally increases or decreases with the financial strength and maintenance budgets of electric utilities, and demand can vary with damage levels suffered from severe storms. A significant decline in utility pole sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our products are not re-registered by the EPA or are re-registered subject to new restrictions, our ability to sell our products may be curtailed or significantly limited.. Our penta product registrations are under continuous review by the EPA under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (\"FIFRA\"). We have submitted and will submit a wide range of scientific data to support our U.S. registrations. To satisfy the registration review, we are required to demonstrate, among other things, that our products will not cause unreasonable adverse effects on human health or the environment when used according to approved label directions. In September 2008, the EPA announced that it had determined that penta was eligible for re-registration, but the EPA proposed new restrictions on the use of penta that have required our customers to incur substantial additional costs and to revise certain operating procedures. In December 2014, the EPA issued a registration review work plan that required penta registrants to provide additional research and testing data respecting certain potential risks to human health or the environment as a further condition to continued registration. We are now conducting required testing but we cannot tell you when or if the EPA will issue a final decision concluding that the conditions of re-registration for our penta products have been satisfied, and that all additional testing requirements have been satisfied, and we cannot assure you that our products will not be subject to use or labeling restrictions that may have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. The failure of our current or future-acquired products to be re-registered or to satisfy the registration review by the EPA, or the imposition of new use, labeling or other restrictions in connection with re-registration could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our use of hazardous materials exposes us to potential liabilities.. Our manufacturing and distribution of chemical products involves the controlled use of hazardous materials. Our operations, therefore, are subject to various associated risks, including chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases, fires, mechanical failure, storage facility leaks and similar events. Our suppliers are subject to similar risks that may adversely impact the availability of raw materials. While we adapt our manufacturing and distribution processes to the environmental control standards of regulatory authorities, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous or regulated materials, including injury of our employees, individuals who handle our products or goods treated with our products, or others who claim to have been exposed to our products, nor can we completely eliminate the unanticipated interruption or suspension of operations at our facilities due to such events. We may be held liable for significant damages or fines in the event of contamination or injury, and such assessed damages or fines could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and results of operations.. The distribution, sale and use of our products is subject to prior governmental approvals and thereafter ongoing governmental regulation.. Our products are subject to laws administered by federal, state and foreign governments, including regulations requiring registration, approval and labeling, or regulating the use, of our products. The labeling requirements restrict the use and type of application for our products. More stringent restrictions could make our products less desirable which would adversely affect our sales and profitability. All states where our penta products are used also require registration before they can be marketed or used in that state.. Governmental regulatory authorities have required, and may require in the future, that certain scientific testing and data production be provided on our products. Under FIFRA, the federal government requires registrants to submit a wide range of scientific data to support U.S. registrations. This requirement significantly increases our operating expenses, and we expect those expenses will continue in the future. Because scientific analyses are constantly improving, we cannot determine with certainty whether or not new or additional tests may be required by regulatory authorities. While Good Laboratory Practice standards specify the minimum practices and procedures that must be followed in order to ensure the quality and integrity of data related to these tests submitted to the EPA, there can be no assurance that the EPA will not request certain tests or studies be repeated. In addition, more stringent legislation or requirements may be imposed in the future. In June 2016, Congress made significant changes to the Toxic Substances Control Act which could result in increased regulation and required testing of chemicals we manufacture, which could increase the costs of compliance for our operations. We can provide no assurance that our resources will be adequate to meet the costs of regulatory. 10. compliance or that the cost of such compliance will not adversely affect our profitability. Our products could also be subject to other future regulatory action that may result in restricting or completely banning their use which could have a material adverse effect on our performance and results of operations.. Future climate change regulation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our products.. Although the United States has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, a number of federal laws related to \"greenhouse gas,\" or \"GHG,\" emissions have been considered by Congress. Because of the lack of any comprehensive legislation program addressing GHGs, the EPA is using its existing regulatory authority to promulgate regulations requiring reduction in GHG emissions from various categories of sources. The EPA attempted to require the permitting of GHG emissions, starting with the largest sources first. Although the Supreme Court struck down the permitting requirements, it upheld the EPA's authority to control GHG emissions when a permit is required due to emissions of other pollutants. Additionally, various state, local and regional regulations and initiatives have been enacted or are being considered.. Member States of the European Union each have an overall cap on emissions which are approved by the European Commission and implement the EU Emissions Trading Directive as a commitment to the Kyoto Protocol. Under this Directive, organizations apply to the Member State for an allowance of GHG emissions. These allowances are tradable so as to enable companies that manage to reduce their GHG emissions to sell their excess allowances to companies that are not reaching their emissions objectives. Failure to purchase sufficient allowances will require the purchase of allowances at a current market price.. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of GHGs could cause an increase to our raw material costs, could require us to incur increased operating costs and could have an adverse effect on demand for our products.. The Registration Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (\"REACH\") legislation may affect our ability to manufacture and sell certain products in the European Union.. REACH, which was effective on June 1, 2007, requires chemical manufacturers and importers in the European Union to prove the safety of their products. As a result, we were required to pre-register certain products and file comprehensive reports, including testing data, on each chemical substance, and perform chemical safety assessments. Additionally, substances of high concern are subject to an authorization process. Authorization may result in restrictions on certain uses of products or even prohibitions on the manufacture or importation of products. The full registration requirements of REACH are phased in over several years. We will incur additional expense to cause the registration of our products under these regulations. REACH may also affect our ability to manufacture and sell certain products in the European Union.. Our products may be rendered obsolete or less attractive by changes in industry requirements or by supply-chain driven pressures to shift to environmentally preferable alternatives.. Changes in regulatory, legislative and industry requirements, or changes driven by supply-chain pressures, may shift current customers away from products using penta or certain of our other products and toward alternative products that are believed to have fewer environmental effects. The EPA, foreign and state regulators, local governments, private environmental advocacy organizations and a number of large industrial companies have proposed or adopted policies designed to decrease the use of a variety of chemicals, including penta and others included in certain of our products. Our ability to anticipate changes in regulatory, legislative, and industry requirements, or changes driven by supply-chain pressures, will be a significant factor in our ability to remain competitive. Further, we may not be able to comply with changed or new regulatory or industrial standards that may be necessary for us to remain competitive.. We cannot assure you that the EPA, foreign and state regulators and local governments will not restrict the uses of penta or certain of our other products or ban the use of one or more of these products, or that the companies who use our products may decide to reduce significantly or cease the use of our products voluntarily. As a result, our products may become obsolete or less attractive to our customers.. Volatility of oil and natural gas prices can adversely affect demand for our products and services.. Volatility in oil and natural gas prices may impact our customers' activity levels and spending for our products and services. Expectations about future prices and price volatility are important for determining future spending levels for customers of our pipeline performance products and services.. Historically, worldwide oil and natural gas prices and markets have been volatile, and may continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, increases in supplies from U.S. shale production, international political conditions, including uprisings and political. 11. unrest, a European sovereign debt crisis, the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas, the level of consumer demand due to economic growth in China, weather conditions, domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes, the price and availability of alternative fuels, the health of international economic and credit markets, the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies to agree upon and maintain oil price and production controls, and general economic conditions.. Changing oil and natural gas prices may impact spending by customers of our industrial lubricants products. While higher oil and natural gas prices generally lead to increased spending by our customers in that business, sustained high energy prices can be an impediment to economic growth and to other segments of our business as described below, and can therefore negatively impact spending by some of our customers. Our customers also take into account the volatility of energy prices and other risk factors by requiring higher returns for individual projects if there is higher perceived risk. Any of these factors could affect the demand for oil and natural gas for our customers in the pipeline performance business and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The profitability of our electronic chemicals and some of our performance materials could also be adversely affected by high petroleum prices.. The profitability of our business depends, to a degree, upon the price of petroleum products, both as a component of transportation costs for delivery of products to our customers and as a raw material used to make some of our products, including penta solutions. High petroleum prices also affect the businesses of our customers. Our penta customers dissolve our product in petroleum-based materials to make a treating solution for utility poles. Unfavorable changes in petroleum prices or in other business and economic conditions affecting our customers could reduce purchases of our products, and impose practical limits on our pricing. Any of these factors could lower our profit margins, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are unable to predict what the price of crude oil and petroleum-based products will be in the future. We may be unable to pass along to our customers the increased costs that result from higher petroleum prices.. We may be unable to identify liabilities associated with the properties and businesses that may be acquired or obtain protection from sellers against them.. The acquisition of properties and businesses requires assessment of a number of factors, including physical condition and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and inherently uncertain. The assessments may result from a due diligence review of the subject properties and businesses, but such a review may not reveal all existing or potential problems. We may not be able to obtain comprehensive contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities that it created or that were created by any predecessor of the seller. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical or environmental condition of the properties and businesses in addition to the risk that the properties and businesses may not perform in accordance with expectations.. We are dependent upon many critical systems and processes, many of which are dependent upon hardware that is concentrated in a limited number of locations. If a catastrophe or cyber security event were to occur at one or more of those locations or with our data, it could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business is dependent on certain critical systems, which support various aspects of our operations, from our computer network to our billing and customer service systems. The hardware supporting a large number of such systems is housed in a small number of locations. If one or more of these locations were to be subject to fire, natural disaster, terrorism, power loss, or other catastrophe, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we believe that we maintain reasonable disaster recovery programs, there can be no assurance that, despite these efforts, any disaster recovery, security and service continuity protection measures we may have or may take in the future will be sufficient.. In addition, we may be susceptible to acts of aggression on our critical operating system. Cyber security events such as computer viruses, electronic break-ins or other similar disruptive technological problems could also adversely affect our operations. Should such an event occur in the future, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in our computer systems and could affect our financial and operating results, causing disruptions in operations, damage of reputation, litigation, increased costs, or inaccurate information reported by our manufacturing facilities.. Significant physical effects of climatic change have the potential to damage our facilities, disrupt our production activities and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects.. In an interpretive guidance on climate change disclosure, the SEC indicates that climate change could have an effect on the severity of weather (including hurricanes and floods), sea levels, the arability of farmland, and water availability and quality. If such effects were to occur, our operations have the potential to be adversely affected. Potential adverse effects could include damage to our facilities from powerful winds or rising waters in low lying areas, disruption of our operations because of climate-related damages to our facilities and our costs of operation potentially arising from such climate effects, less efficient or non-routine operating practices. 12. necessitated by climate effects, or increased costs for insurance coverage in the aftermath of such effects. Significant physical effects of climate change could also have an indirect effect on our operations by disrupting the transportation of our products or by disrupting the operations of suppliers with whom we have a business relationship. We may not be able to recover through insurance some or any of the damage, losses or costs that may result from potential physical effects of climate change.. Weather may adversely impact our ability to conduct business.. Our pipeline performance facilities in Texas, our penta facility in Matamoros, Mexico, and several suppliers of raw materials are located on or near the Gulf of Mexico. Thus, we are dependent on terminals and facilities located in coastal areas for a substantial portion of certain of the raw materials we use, the penta we make and for our electronic chemicals products. These terminals and facilities are vulnerable to hurricanes, rising water and other adverse weather conditions that have the potential to cause substantial damage and to interrupt operations. There can be no assurance that adverse weather conditions will not affect the availability of penta and certain other raw materials in the future, the occurrence of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. More generally, severe weather conditions have the potential to adversely affect our operations, damage facilities and increase our costs, and those conditions may also have an indirect effect on our financing and operations by disrupting services provided by service companies or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship. We may not be able to recover through insurance some or any of the damage, losses or costs that may result from potential physical effects of climate.. Our business success depends significantly on the reliability and sufficiency of our manufacturing facilities.. Our revenues depend significantly on the continued operation of our manufacturing facilities. The operation of our facilities involves risks, including the breakdown, failure, or substandard operation or performance of equipment, power outages, explosions, fires, earthquakes, other natural disasters, terrorism and other unscheduled downtime. The occurrence of material operational problems, the loss or shutdown of our facilities over an extended period of time due to these or other events could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and operating results.. Our business is subject to many operational risks for which we may not be adequately insured.. We cannot assure you that we will not incur losses beyond the limits of, or outside the coverage of, our insurance policies. From time to time, various types of insurance for companies in the chemical industry have not been available on commercially acceptable terms or, in some cases, have been unavailable. In addition, we cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to maintain existing coverage or that our insurance premiums will not increase substantially.. We maintain insurance coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages. We do not believe that insurance coverage for environmental damage that occurs over time is available at a reasonable cost. Also, we do not believe that insurance coverage for the full potential liability that could be caused by sudden and accidental incidences is available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, we may be subject to an uninsured or under-insured loss in such cases.. Our business may be adversely affected by cyclical and seasonal effects.. In general, the chemical industry is cyclical and demand for our performance materials is somewhat seasonal. The demand for our drag-reducing agents is generally higher in winter when pipeline operators use them to increase flow in colder temperatures. Some of our pipeline customers of our industrial lubricants products tend to prefer doing maintenance on their systems from the spring through the fall seasons. There is greater demand for our wood treating chemicals in the summer than in the winter because of the effects of weather on timber harvest. Our electronic chemical products are often used to produce semiconductors for industries and applications that are cyclical in nature, as well as subject to customer marketing programs and requirements. There can be no assurance that our business, resources and margins will not be adversely affected by seasonal or cyclical effects.. We depend on our senior management team and the loss of any member could adversely affect our operations.. Our success is dependent on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team, including Christopher T. Fraser, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Marvin T. Green III, our Chief Financial Officer, Ernest C. Kremling, our Senior Vice President Performance Materials and Manufacturing Services, Jeff Handelman, our Senior Vice President Electronic Chemicals, Christopher W. Gonser, our Vice President of Human Resources, and Roger C. Jackson, our Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. While we have succession plans for key positions, the loss of any member of our senior management team or an inability to attract, retain and maintain additional qualified personnel could prevent us from implementing our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior management personnel or attract additional qualified personnel when needed.. 13. If we are unable to successfully negotiate with the labor unions representing our employees, we may experience a material work stoppage.. Some of our full-time employees are represented by labor unions, workers councils or comparable organizations, particularly in Mexico and Europe. As our current agreements expire, we cannot assure you that new agreements will be reached at the end of each period without union action, or that a new agreement will be reached on terms satisfactory to us. An extended work stoppage, slowdown or other action by our employees could significantly disrupt our business. Future labor contracts may be on terms that result in higher labor costs to us, which also could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our financial performance is subject to risks associated with changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus local currencies.. Our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to non-U.S. dollar denominated sales and operating expenses worldwide. Weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar adversely affects the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, and generally leads us to raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for our products. Margins on sales of our products in foreign countries and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. In some circumstances, for competitive or other reasons, we may decide not to raise local prices to fully offset the dollar's strengthening, or at all, which would adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency denominated sales and earnings. Conversely, a strengthening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, while generally beneficial to our foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, could cause us to reduce international pricing. Additionally, strengthening of foreign currencies may also increase our cost of product components denominated in those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins.. Additionally, because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies may affect our revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. We do not use derivative financial instruments to reduce our net exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. We cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies or the currencies of large developing countries, would not materially affect our financial results.. We are subject to narcotics gang disruption in Mexico and to possible risk of terrorist attacks, each of which could adversely affect our business.. Our penta manufacturing facility is located in Matamoros, Mexico, an area where there has been violent crime involving narcotics gang warfare. Our penta operations could be disrupted or otherwise affected by narcotics gang activities in the Mexico border area where our facility is located. We are not insured against terrorist or narcotics gang attacks, and there can be no assurance that losses that could result from an attack on our facilities or personnel, railcars or tank trucks would not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Since September 11, 2001, there has been concern that chemical manufacturing facilities and railcars carrying hazardous chemicals may be at an increased risk of terrorist attacks. Federal, state and local governments have begun a regulatory process that could lead to new regulations impacting the security of chemical industry facilities and the transportation of hazardous chemicals. Our business could be adversely impacted if a terrorist incident were to occur at any chemical facility or while a railcar or tank truck was transporting chemicals.. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign operations, including changes in social, political and economic conditions.. We have facilities in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Europe and Singapore, and generate a significant portion of our sales in foreign countries. Like other companies with foreign operations and sales, we are exposed to market risks relating to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. At this time, the Euro, the Great Britain Pound and Singapore Dollars are the functional currencies of our operations in Europe and Asia. We are also exposed to risks associated with changes in the laws and policies governing foreign investments in Mexico, Europe and Asia, and to a lesser extent, changes in United States laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (U.K.) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" In February 2017, the British Parliament voted in favor of allowing the British government to begin negotiating the terms of the U.K.'s withdrawal from the European Union and discussions with the European Union began in March 2017. The U.K. will cease to be a member state when a withdrawal agreement is entered into (such agreement will also require parliamentary approval) or, failing that, two years following the notification of an intention to leave the European Union, unless the European Union (together with the U.K.) unanimously decides to extend this period. On March 29, 2017, the U.K. formally notified the European Union of its intention to leave the European Union. In March 2018, the European Union announced an agreement in principle to transitional provisions under which most European Union law would remain in force in the U.K. until the end of December 2020, however, this transitional period remains subject to the successful conclusion of a final withdrawal agreement between the parties. In the absence of such an agreement, there would be no transitional provisions and a \"hard\" Brexit would occur on March 29, 2019. Although it is unknown what the terms of such an agreement will be, it is possible that there will be greater. 14. restrictions on imports and exports between the U.K. and European Union countries, a fluctuation in currency exchange rates and increased regulatory complexities. These changes may adversely affect our operations and financial results. While such changes in laws, regulations and conditions have not had a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition to date, we cannot assure you as to the future effect of any such changes."
