[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements. This Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our Annual Report to Stockholders, quarterly reports and other filings with the SEC, press releases, and other oral and written communications, contains certain statements regarding business strategies, market potential, future financial performance, future action, results, and any other statements that do not directly relate to any historical or current fact which are \"forward-looking\" statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the \"Securities Act\"), the Exchange Act, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words \"believe,\" \"expect,\" \"anticipate,\" \"project,\" \"estimate,\" \"budget,\" \"continue,\" \"could,\" \"intend,\" \"may,\" \"plan,\" \"potential,\" \"predict,\" \"seek,\" \"should,\" \"will,\" \"would,\" \"expect,\" \"objective,\" \"forecast,\" \"goal,\" \"guidance,\" \"outlook,\" \"effort,\" \"target,\" and similar expressions, among others, generally identify forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date the statements were made.. In particular, information included under the sections entitled \"Business,\" \"Risk Factors,\" and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" contain forward-looking statements.. 7. Table of Contents. Readers are cautioned that the matters discussed in these forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors that are difficult to predict and which could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated, or implied in the forward-looking statements. Where, in any forward-looking statement, an expectation or belief as to future results or events is expressed, such expectation or belief is based on the current plans and expectations of management and expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no assurance that the expectation or belief will be achieved or accomplished. Many factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated include those matters described under the sections entitled \"Risk Factors\" and \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\" We caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made and Knowles does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. All forward-looking statements, expressed or implied, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and attributable to Knowles are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. This cautionary statement should also be considered in connection with any subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements that we may make or persons acting on our behalf may issue. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward looking statement for any reason.. You should consider each of the following factors as well as the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related notes, in evaluating our business and our prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. In general, we are subject to the same general risks and uncertainties that impact many other companies such as general economic, industry, and/or market conditions and growth rates; possible future terrorist threats or armed conflicts and their effect on the worldwide economy; and changes in laws or accounting rules. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Risks Related To Our Business. We depend on the mobile handset market for a significant portion of our revenues, and any downturn or slower than expected growth in this market could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely impact our operating results.. Our Audio segment accounted for 86% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017, and the mobile handset market accounted for approximately 36% of our consolidated revenues. While other markets such as mobile headsets, wearables, and IoT are gaining in significance, we expect that a substantial portion of our consolidated revenues will continue to be attributable to the mobile handset market, which is cyclical and characterized by continuous and rapid technological change, product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles, and significant fluctuations in product supply and demand. Moreover, the mobile handset market may not continue to grow at the rate experienced in recent years or may decline for reasons outside of our control including competition among market participants, market saturation, and global economic conditions. The mobile handset market has experienced and may experience periodic downturns which may be characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels, and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Given that the strength of the mobile handset market is a primary driver of revenues for our Audio segment, any downturn in the mobile handset market could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, a decline in global economic conditions, particularly in geographic regions with high concentrations of mobile handset users, could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products or technologies, the products and services of our customers or licensees, particularly OEM handset manufacturers, the solvency of key suppliers, failures by counterparties, and negative effects on mobile handset inventories. In addition, our customers' ability to purchase or pay for our products and services and their customers' ability to upgrade their mobile handsets could be adversely affected by economic conditions, leading to a reduction, cancellation, or delay of orders for our products or services.. We derive the majority of our Audio revenues from MEMS microphones sold to the mobile handset market and a significant reduction in our sales of MEMS microphones could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely impact our operating results.. Within our Audio segment, revenues are generated primarily from the sales of our MEMS microphones. Sales of MEMS microphones accounted for approximately 60% of our total revenues for fiscal 2017. We expect that a substantial portion of our revenues will continue to be attributable to sales of MEMS microphones and any weakening of demand, loss of market share, or other factors adversely affecting our levels and the timing of our sales of MEMS microphones, including our customers' product release cycles, market acceptance, product competition, the performance and reliability of our MEMS microphones, and economic and market conditions could cause our Audio revenues to substantially decline, which may adversely affect our operating results.. 8. Table of Contents. Our largest segment, Audio, derives a significant portion of its revenues from a limited number of OEM customers. If revenues derived from these customers decrease or the timing of such revenues fluctuates, our operating results could be negatively affected.. Our Audio segment derives a significant portion of revenues from a small number of OEM customers. For 2017, Audio top five customers accounted for approximately 52% of Audio's revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2017, Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. accounted for approximately 22% and 12% of Audio's revenues, respectively, and 19% and 10% of total company revenues, respectively. The mobile handset industry is also subject to intense competition that could result in decreased demand and/or declining average selling prices for our products and those of our OEM customers. The loss of any one of Audio's top customers or a reduction in the purchases of Audio's products by such customers would reduce our total revenues and may impair our ability to achieve or sustain expected operating results, and any delay of a significant volume of purchases by any one of our top customers, even if only temporary, would reduce our revenues in the period of the delay. Further, concentration of market share among a few companies and the corresponding increase in purchasing power of these companies, may result in lower prices for our products which, if not accompanied by a sufficient increase in the volume of purchases of our products, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and margins. In addition, the timing and size of purchases by our significant customers may be impacted by the timing of such customers' new or next generation product introductions, and the timing of such introductions may cause our operating results to be adversely impacted. Accordingly, if current market and industry dynamics continue, our Audio segment's revenues will continue to depend largely upon, and be impacted by the timing, volumes, and pricing of future purchases by a limited number of our OEM customers.. Average selling prices in our Audio segment have generally been decreasing, which may reduce our gross margins or revenues.. The mobile handset industry has traditionally experienced an erosion of average selling prices due to a number of factors, including competitive pricing pressures, industry pricing trends, and technology advances. Within our Audio segment, while average selling prices vary significantly on a product to product basis, we anticipate the average selling prices of our products will generally decrease in the short term in response to competitive pricing pressures, excess inventories, increased sale discounts, and new product introductions by us or our competitors. We may experience decreases in future operating results due to the erosion of our average selling prices. To maintain our gross margins, we must develop and introduce on a timely basis new or differentiated products or product enhancements and continually reduce our product costs. Our failure to do so will likely cause our revenues and gross margin to decline.. We rely on highly specialized suppliers for a variety of highly engineered or specialized components, and other inputs which we may not be able to readily identify alternatives or substitutes in the event of a business or supply disruption or capacity constraint at or by any of these suppliers, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. Certain of our businesses rely on highly specialized suppliers or foundries for critical materials, components, or subassemblies that are used in our products. In some cases, such suppliers or foundries may be our sole source of supply or, such suppliers or foundries may also be a strategic supplier to one of our competitors or a customer. In either of these cases, should an event occur which affects the ability or willingness of any of such supplier or foundry to continue to deliver materials or components to us in a timely manner, we may not be able to identify or qualify an alternative supplier in a timely manner which, in any such period and future periods, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Potential events or occurrences which could cause business or supply disruptions or affect the ability or willingness of a supplier or foundry to continue to supply us include changes in market strategy, the acquisition of, sale, or other change in control or ownership structure of a supplier or foundry, strategic divestiture, bankruptcy, insolvency or other financial difficulties, business disruptions, operational issues, or capacity constraints at a supplier or foundry.. Global markets for our products are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. If we are unable to develop new products and compete effectively in these markets, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.. We compete in highly competitive, technology-based, industries that are highly dynamic as new technologies are developed and introduced. Our competitors may introduce products that are as or more technologically advanced than our products or launch new products faster than we can, which may lead to a loss of market share or revenues. If we are unable to anticipate or match our competitors' development or launch of new products, identify customer needs and preferences on a timely basis, or successfully launch or ramp production of our new products, our operating results may be adversely affected.. 9. Table of Contents. We operate in the highly competitive mobile handset industry, which requires us to invest significant capital in developing, qualifying, and ramping production of new products without any assurance of product sales which could negatively impact our operating results and profits.. A significant portion of our consolidated revenues are derived from acoustic components and audio solutions, including software, that are required to go through extensive customer qualification processes before being selected by customers for inclusion in their end products. In order to meet the product launch schedules of our top customers, we may invest capital and devote substantial resources, including design, engineering, sales, marketing, and programming efforts, based on non-binding forecasts provided by these customers, without any assurance that our products will be designed into a customer's product or qualified by the customer. In such cases, if our product is not designed into or qualified by the customer, we may not recover or realize any return on the capital that we invested and our operating results may be adversely affected.. In addition, the time required and costs incurred by us to ramp-up production for new products can be significant. Certain non-recurring costs and expenditures for tooling and other equipment may not be reusable in manufacturing products for other customers or different products for the same customer. Product ramps typically involve greater volumes of scrap and risks to execution such as higher costs due to inefficiencies and delays in production, all of which can adversely impact our operating results.. Our foreign operations, supply chain, and footprint optimization strategies are each subject to various risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position.. Many of our manufacturing operations, research and development operations, vendors, and suppliers are located outside the United States and if we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with our global operations, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively impacted. These risks include:. o   labor unrest and strikes, particularly in Asia, where the majority of our manufacturing operations are located; o   earthquakes, floods, and other natural disasters or catastrophic events, particularly in Asia, where the majority of our manufacturing operations are located; o   acts of terrorism or armed conflicts; o   government embargoes, trade restrictions, and import and export controls; and o   transportation delays and interruptions.. Given that many of our manufacturing operations are located outside the United States, a border tax, if enacted, could have an unfavorable impact on our earnings.. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees, and if we are unable to attract and retain such qualified employees, our business and our ability to execute our business strategies may be impaired.. Our future success depends largely on the continued service and efforts of our executive officers and other key management and technical personnel and on our ability to continue to identify, attract, retain, and motivate them, particularly in an environment of cost reductions and a general move toward more performance-based compensation for executives and key management.. Implementing our business strategy also requires specialized engineering and other talent, as our revenues are highly dependent on technological and product innovations. Competition for such experienced technical personnel in our industry and where we are located is intense, and we cannot assure that we can continue to recruit and retain such personnel. For example, there is substantial competition in China for experienced engineers and technical personnel where most of our operations are located and for machine learning and software engineers in California and India where we primarily conduct research and development for our software and intelligent audio products, which may make it difficult for us to recruit and retain  key employees. If we are unable to attract and retain such qualified employees, our business and our ability to execute our business strategies may be impaired.. 10. Table of Contents. Our revenues, operating profits, and cash flows could be adversely affected if we are unable to protect or obtain patent and other intellectual property rights or if intellectual property litigation is successful against us.. We employ various measures to maintain, protect, and defend our intellectual property, including enforcing our intellectual property rights in various jurisdictions and forums throughout the world. However, policing unauthorized use of our products, technologies, and proprietary information is difficult and time consuming and these measures may not prevent our intellectual property from being challenged, invalidated, copied, disclosed, or circumvented. We also may not be successful in litigation or other actions to enforce our intellectual property rights, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are not highly developed or protected. Litigation, if necessary, may result in retaliatory legal proceedings alleging infringement by us of intellectual property owned by others. We have had and may in the future have difficulty in certain circumstances in protecting or enforcing our intellectual property rights, including collecting royalties for use of certain patents included in our patent portfolio in certain foreign jurisdictions due to, among other things: policies of foreign governments; challenges to our licensing practices under such jurisdictions' competition laws; failure of foreign courts to recognize and enforce judgments of contract breach and damages issued by courts in the United States; and/or challenges pending before foreign patent authorities as to the validity of our patents and those owned by competitors and other parties.. The expense of protecting, defending, and enforcing our intellectual property, or defending claims that our products, technology, or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, can vary significantly period to period and, in any given period, could be material and adversely impact our operating results. In addition, in any period, we may have liability for damages arising out of adverse judgments for intellectual property claims that may be material and adversely affect our operating results.. We have invested and continue to invest in strategic acquisitions and make strategic investments that, if not successful, could adversely affect our financial results or fail to create or sustain stockholder value.. We engage in strategic acquisitions and make strategic investments, which are important to our business strategy, with the goal of maximizing stockholder value. We have acquired businesses and other assets, including patents, technology, and other intangible assets and may enter into joint ventures or other strategic transactions, purchase minority equity interests in or make loans to companies that may be private and early-stage. Our acquisitions and strategic investments are generally focused on opening new or expanding opportunities for our technologies and supporting the design and introduction of new products and services (or enhancing existing products or services) for voice and data communications. Many of our acquisitions or strategic investments entail a high degree of risk and require the use of domestic and/or foreign capital. We cannot assure that our acquisitions or strategic investments will be successful in realizing anticipated cost synergies, generate financial returns, be accretive within projected time frames, or result in increased adoption or continued use of our technologies, products, or services.. In part due to our inexperience with certain adjacent or complimentary technologies and in geographic regions that may be served by acquired businesses, we may underestimate the costs or overestimate the benefits that we expect to realize from such acquisitions or investments, and we may not achieve them.. Further, our ability to achieve the anticipated cost synergies and other benefits from acquisitions and strategic investments within expected time frames is subject to many estimates and assumptions, which are subject to significant economic, competitive, and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. We may not, for example, be able to retain key employees, customers, or suppliers of the acquired company, integrate critical business systems, or derive commercial value from the acquired company's technology and, as a result or, for other unrelated reasons, we may experience either delays in our timing for achieving cost synergies or higher than expected costs in implementing them. If we do not succeed in these efforts, if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, if our estimates and assumptions are not correct, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. 11. Table of Contents. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile and may fluctuate significantly which may adversely impact investor confidence and increase the likelihood of securities class action litigation.. Our common stock price has experienced substantial volatility in the past and may remain volatile in the future. Volatility in our stock price can be driven by many factors including divergence between our actual or anticipated financial results and published expectations of analysts or the expectations of the market, market conditions in our industry, announcements that we, our competitors, vendors, or our customers may make regarding their operating results, technological innovations, the gain or loss of customers, or key opportunities as a result of the risks identified and discussed in this \"Risk Factors\" section. During 2017, our closing stock price ranged from a high of $19.90 per share to a low of $14.11 per share. Our common stock is also included in certain market indices, and any change in the composition of these indices to exclude our company may adversely affect our stock price. Increased volatility in the financial markets and/or overall economic conditions may reduce the amounts that we realize in the future on our cash equivalents and/or marketable securities and may reduce our earnings as a result of any impairment charges that we record to reduce recorded values of marketable securities to their fair values.. Further, securities class action litigation is often brought against a public company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Due to changes in our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial uninsured costs and divert management's attention and our resources.. Our credit agreement requires us to comply with certain financial covenants and our failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. The credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility contains covenants requiring us to, among other things, maintain a minimum ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense and a maximum ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA. In the past, we have obtained amendments from the lenders under the credit agreement which have allowed us to comply with the financial covenants, but there can be no assurance that in the future the lenders will agree to such amendments, and our inability to comply with the covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transactions.. As discussed in Note 11. Borrowings to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data\", we issued convertible senior notes and concurrently entered into convertible note hedge transactions and separate warrants. The option counterparties are financial institutions, and we are subject to the risk that one or more of the option counterparties may default under the convertible note hedge transactions. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. If any of the option counterparties become subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under our transactions with such counterparties. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price and in the volatility of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by the option counterparties, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and more dilution than we currently anticipate with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of the option counterparties.. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate which will impact our future financial results.. Our effective tax rate may be adversely impacted by, among other things, changes in the mix of our earnings among countries having differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets, or changes in tax laws where we operate. We cannot give any assurance as to the stability or predictability of our effective tax rate in the future because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax laws and policies of the countries where we operate.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Reform Act\") was enacted in the United States, which we expect will increase our effective tax rate in the future. The estimated effects based upon current interpretation of the Tax Reform Act have been incorporated into our financial results. As additional data is prepared and analyzed, and as additional clarification and implementation guidance is issued on the Tax Reform Act, it may be necessary to adjust the provisional amounts. Any adjustments could have a material impact on provisional amounts. In addition, there is a risk that states or foreign jurisdictions may amend their tax laws in response to the Tax Reform Act, which could have a material impact on our future results.. 12. Table of Contents. Further, our tax returns are subject to periodic reviews or audits by domestic and international authorities, and these audits may result in allocations of income and/or deductions that result in tax assessments different from amounts that we have estimated. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these audits to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these audits or that our tax provisions will ultimately be adequate to satisfy any associated tax liability. If our effective tax rates were to increase or if our tax liabilities exceed our estimates and provisions for such taxes, our operating results could be adversely affected.. Our effective tax rate is favorably impacted by tax holidays granted to us by certain foreign jurisdictions, which lowers the tax rates we are subject to for a period of time as compared to the countries' statutory tax rates. These tax holidays are subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including exceeding certain annual thresholds of operating expenses and gross sales. If we fail to satisfy such conditions, our effective tax rate may be significantly adversely impacted. For additional detail, see Note 12. Income Taxes to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\". Moreover, tax rates and laws in the countries where we operate may change, or tax reforms may be enacted domestically or in foreign jurisdictions which adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows, and future reported financial results or our ability to continue to structure and conduct our business as is done currently.. We are subject to potentially material liability for breaches of confidentiality agreements with certain of our top customers.. We have entered into non-disclosure agreements with several of our top customers which require us not to disclose and to protect certain information regarding, among other things, aspects of those customers' businesses plans, products, and technology. These confidentiality agreements, in some cases, impose strict liability on us in the event of any breach of these agreements by us or our employees or agents and, should such a breach occur, our operating results may be adversely affected.. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches or other unauthorized disclosures.. We have taken and continue to actively take measures to protect the various proprietary information, algorithms, source code, and confidential data relating to both our and our customers' business and products that is stored on our computer networks, servers, and peripheral devices, as well as on servers owned or managed by third party vendors whom we leverage. Such data and information remains vulnerable to cyber attacks, cyber breaches, theft, or other unauthorized disclosure which, if successful, could result in loss of valuable intellectual property, disclosure of confidential customer or commercial data, disclosure of government classified information, or system disruptions and subject us to civil liability and fines or penalties, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business, any of which could be material. Should any secu rity breach result in the disclosure of certain of our customers' or business partners' confidential information, we may incur liability to such customers or business partners under confidentiality agreements that we are party to with such parties. In addition, delayed sales, lower margins, or lost customers resulting from security breaches or network disruptions could reduce our revenues, increase our expenses, damage our reputation, and adversely affect our stock price.. There is also a danger of industrial espionage, unauthorized disclosures, theft of information or assets (including source code), or damage to assets by people who have gained unauthorized access to the Company's facilities, systems, or information. Such breaches, misuse, or other disruptions could lead to unauthorized disclosure of confidential or proprietary information or improper usage or sale of the Company's products or intellectual property without compensation and theft, manipulation, and destruction of private and proprietary data, which could result in defective products, production downtimes, lost revenue, or damage to our reputation, and adversely affect our stock price.. 13. Table of Contents. Our net exposure to exchange rate fluctuations could negatively impact our results of operations.. We conduct a significant amount of business outside the United States and adverse movements in currency exchange rates, particularly the Malaysian ringgit, the euro, the Chinese renminbi (yuan), and the Philippine peso, may, in any period or period(s), negatively affect our business and our operating results due to a number of factors, including, among others:. o our products are manufactured and sold outside the United States which increases our net exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates; o our products, which are typically sold in U.S. dollars, may become less price-competitive outside the United States as a result of unfavorable foreign exchange rates; o certain of our revenues that are derived from customer sales denominated in foreign currencies could decrease; o our foreign suppliers may raise their prices if they are impacted by currency fluctuations, resulting in higher than expected costs and lower margins;  o foreign exchange hedging transactions that we engage in to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations may require the payment of structuring fees, limit the U.S. dollar value of royalties from licensees' sales that are denominated in foreign currencies, cause earnings volatility if the hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting, and expose us to counterparty risk if the counterparty fails to perform; o the cost of materials, products, services, and other expenses outside the United States could be adversely impacted by a weakening of the U.S. dollar; and o based on our current sales and manufacturing activity, a sustained 10% weakening of the U.S. dollar for a period of one year would reduce our operating results by approximately $17.9 million pre-tax.. Our products are complex and could contain defects, which could result in material costs to us and harm our business.. Our products are complex and could contain defects, which could result in material costs to us. Product development in the markets we serve is becoming more focused on audio signal processing for improved audio performance and to enable intelligent and more sophisticated audio solutions. The increasing complexity of our products increases the risk that we or our customers or end users could discover latent defects or subtle faults after significant volumes of product have been shipped. This could result in material costs and other adverse consequences to us including, but not limited to: loss of customers, reduced margins, damage to our reputation, a material product recall, replacement costs for product warranty and support, payments to our customers related to recall claims as a result of various industry or business practices, a delay in recognition or loss of revenues, loss of market share, or failure to achieve market acceptance, and a diversion of the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts. In addition, any defects or other problems with our products could result in financial losses or other damages to our customers who could seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability or warranty claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. In particular, the sale of systems and components that are incorporated into mobile handsets for the global mobile phone industry involves a high degree of risk that such claims may be made. Due to the complex nature of our products, quality, and reliability issues may arise after significant volumes of a product have shipped. While we have attempted to contractually limit our financial exposure with many of our customers for such claims, a warranty or product liability claim against us in excess of our available insurance coverage and established reserves, or a requirement that we participate in a customer product recall, could have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. In addition, our products are typically sold to customers at prices that are significantly lower than the cost of the customer's products in which they are incorporated. Given that a defect in one of our products could give rise to failures in the products that incorporate them, we may face claims for damages that are disproportionate to the revenues we receive from the products involved and because we are self-insured for matters relating to product quality a significant claim(s) could adversely affect our financial position. Moreover, to the extent a defect in one of our products is caused by a defective component supplied to us by a third party, we may, nonetheless, be liable to the customer and be unsuccessful in seeking indemnification from that third party.. 14. Table of Contents. Our goodwill, other intangible assets, or long-lived assets may become impaired, which could result in a significant charge to earnings.. We hold significant amounts of goodwill, other intangible assets, and long-lived assets, and the balances of these assets could increase in the future if we acquire other businesses. At December 31, 2017, the balance of our goodwill, other intangible assets, and long-lived assets was $1.1 billion and the total market value of the Company's outstanding shares was $1.3 billion. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (\"U.S. GAAP\"), we review our goodwill, other intangible assets, and long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of such goodwill, other intangible assets, or long-lived assets may not be recoverable. In addition, we test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill, other intangible assets, or long-lived assets may not be recoverable, include, but are not limited to, a sustained decline in stock price and market capitalization, significant negative variances between actual and expected financial results, reduced future cash flow estimates, adverse changes in legal factors, failure to realize anticipated synergies from acquisitions, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill, other intangible assets, or long-lived assets is determined to exist, negatively impacting our results of operations. If our market capitalization was to fall below the book value of our total stockholders' equity for a sustained period, we may conclude that the fair value of certain of our intangible or long-lived assets is materially impaired. In this case, we would be required under U.S. GAAP to record a non-cash charge to our earnings which could adversely impact our financial results.. There are risks associated with our indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial condition.. Our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur may have negative consequences, including:. o requiring us to use cash to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes; o limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends, or other general corporate and other purposes; o limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and o increasing our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations to the extent a portion of our debt has variable interest rates.. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which is subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles, and financial, business, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things: refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures; or sell selected assets. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing, or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all, and if prevailing interest rates at the time of any such financing and/or refinancing are higher than our current rates, interest expense related to such financing and/or refinancing would increase. If there are adverse changes in the ratings assigned to our debt securities by credit rating agencies, our borrowing costs, our ability to access debt in the future, and/or the terms of the financing could be adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Spin-Off From Our Former Parent. We have certain indemnification obligations to our Former Parent pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement which, if triggered, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. The Separation and Distribution Agreement between us and our Former Parent provides, among other things, that we will indemnify our Former Parent for substantially all liabilities relating to our business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the Separation. If we are required to indemnify our Former Parent under the Separation and Distribution Agreement or other agreements in any period or periods, we may be subject to substantial liabilities that may adversely impact our operating results.. 15. Table of Contents. We are subject to continuing contingent tax liabilities of our Former Parent following the Separation.. Under the Internal Revenue Code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of our Former Parent's U.S. consolidated group for all or a portion of a taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the distribution is jointly and severally liable for the U.S. federal income tax liability of the entire U.S. consolidated group of our Former Parent. Consequently, if our Former Parent is unable to pay the consolidated U.S. federal income tax liability for a prior period, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such tax which could be substantial and in excess of the amount allocated to us under the Tax Matters Agreement between us and our Former Parent. Other provisions of federal and state law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities. These potential tax liabilities could be material in any period or periods, and should we be held liable for such liabilities, our operating results in any such period or periods may be adversely affected.. If the Distribution (as defined below), together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we, our Former Parent, and our stockholders could be subject to a significant tax liability and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify our Former Parent for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the Tax Matters Agreement.. Under the Tax Matters Agreement between our Former Parent and us, we are required to indemnify our Former Parent against taxes incurred by our Former Parent that arise as a result of our taking or failing to take, as the case may be, certain actions that result in the Distribution failing to qualify for tax-free treatment. Also, under the Tax Matters Agreement, we are required to indemnify our Former Parent for one-half of the taxes and other liabilities incurred by our Former Parent if the Distribution fails to meet the requirements of a tax-free distribution for reasons other than an act or failure to act on the part of us or our Former Parent and therefore we might be required to indemnify our Former Parent for such taxes and liabilities due to circumstances and events not within our control. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, we are also required to indemnify our Former Parent for one-half of certain taxes incurred as a result of the restructuring activities undertaken to effectuate the Distribution. Our indemnification obligations to our Former Parent under the Tax Matters Agreement are not limited by a maximum amount. If we are required to indemnify our Former Parent under the circumstances set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement, we may be subject to substantial tax liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our financial position.. Our Former Parent has secured a tax opinion from its  tax counsel which concluded that the distribution of all of the shares of our common stock to stockholders of our Former Parent in connection with the Separation (the \"Distribution\") qualifies as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our Former Parent also requested and received a Private Letter Ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") which reached the same conclusion regarding the tax-free qualification of Distribution. The Private Letter Ruling relied on certain facts, assumptions, representations, and undertakings from our Former Parent and us, which, if incorrect, inaccurate, or reneged upon may invalidate the Private Letter Ruling and any binding effect on the IRS. Should the Private Letter Ruling be invalidated, we and our Former Parent could be subject to significant tax liabilities which could materially adversely affect our financial position. As of the end of fiscal 2017, we were not aware of anything that would make the facts, assumptions, representations, and undertakings represented in the Private Letter Ruling incorrect, or inaccurate.. Risks Related to Our Corporate Governance. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist or hostile stockholders.. Our business could be negatively affected as a result of stockholder activism, which could cause us to incur significant expense, hinder execution of its business strategy, and impact the trading value of our securities. Stockholder activism, which could take many forms or arise in a variety of situations, has been increasing in publicly traded companies in recent years and we are subject to the risks associated with such activism. Stockholder activism, including potential proxy contests, requires significant time and attention by management and the Board of Directors, potentially interfering with our ability to execute our strategic plan. Additionally, such stockholder activism could give rise to perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, adversely affect our relationships with key executives and business partners, and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. Also, we may be required to incur significant legal fees and other expenses related to activist stockholder matters. Any of these impacts could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Further, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuation or otherwise be adversely affected by the events, risks, and uncertainties described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. 16. Table of Contents. Certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, and Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of the Company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock.. Each of our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, and Delaware law, as currently in effect, contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others:. o the inability of our stockholders to call a special meeting or act by written consent; o rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; o the right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; o the division of our Board of Directors into three approximately equal classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term; o a provision that stockholders may only remove directors for cause; o the ability of our directors, without a stockholder vote, to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors (including those resulting from an enlargement of the Board of Directors); and o the requirement that stockholders holding at least 80% of our voting stock are required to amend certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws.. In addition, current Delaware law includes provisions which limit the ability of persons that, without prior board approval, acquire more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation, or purchases of additional shares, for a three-year period following the acquisition by such persons of more than 15% of the corporation's outstanding voting stock.. In light of present circumstances, we believe these provisions taken as a whole protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our Board of Directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is not in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors."
