[1] "Item 1A. \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRisk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business. The impact general economic conditions have on consumer discretionary spend could negatively affect our business and results of operations.. Purchases at our restaurants are discretionary for consumers and we are therefore susceptible to economic slowdowns. We believe that consumers generally are more willing to make discretionary purchases during favorable economic conditions. Economic and political uncertainty, financial market volatility and unpredictability, and the oversupply of restaurants in the U.S can all negatively affect customer traffic and sales throughout our industry. If the economy experiences a downturn or continued uncertainties, our customers may further reduce their level of discretionary spending, impacting the frequency with which they choose to dine out or the amount they spend on meals while dining out.. There is also a risk that if uncertain economic conditions persist for an extended period of time or worsen, consumers might make long-lasting changes to their discretionary spending behavior, including dining out less frequently. The ability of the U.S. economy to handle this uncertainty is likely to be affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. These factors, including national, regional and local politics and economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence, also affect discretionary consumer spending. Continued uncertainty in or a worsening of the economy, generally or in a number of our markets, and our customers’ reactions to these trends could adversely affect our revenues and cause us to, among other things, reduce the number and frequency of new restaurant openings, close restaurants and delay remodeling of existing locations.. Our sales and ability to generate profits could be adversely affected if comparable restaurant sales are less than we expect, and we may not successfully increase comparable restaurant sales or they may decrease.. While future sales growth will depend substantially on opening new restaurants, changes in comparable or same-store restaurant sales will also affect our sales growth and will continue to be a critical factor in generating future profits. This is because the profit margin on comparable restaurant sales is generally higher, as comparable restaurant sales increases enable fixed costs to be spread over a higher sales base. Conversely, declines in comparable restaurant sales can have a significant adverse effect on profitability due to the loss of the positive impact on profit margins associated with comparable restaurant sales increases.. 9. Our comparable restaurant sales decreased in 2017 after six consecutive years of increases. As our units continue in operation and new restaurants enter the comparable base, it may be more difficult to achieve significant increases in comparable restaurant sales. Further, the impact of the factors noted below may lower our expectations for comparable restaurant sales:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in consumer preferences and discretionary spending, including weaker consumer spending in periods of economic difficulty or uncertainty and shift of consumer spending away from shopping malls to more on-line shopping;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconsumer understanding and acceptance of the Kona Grill experience and perception of the Kona Grill brand;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tweather, road construction and other factors limiting access to our restaurants. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompetition, either from our competitors in the restaurant industry, or from our own restaurants within the same market in the event customers who frequent one of our restaurants begin to visit one of our new restaurants instead;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to increase menu prices without adversely impacting customer traffic to such a degree that the impact of the decrease in customers equals or exceeds the benefit of the menu price increase;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tany “trade down” by customers or other reduction in average check per person in response to price increases, which could reduce or eliminate the benefit of the price increase on comparable restaurant sales; executing our strategies effectively, including development strategy, menu improvement initiatives and marketing and branding strategies, each of which may not have the impact we expect;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tturnover of key operations and restaurant personnel;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnegative publicity relating to food safety or quality; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in government regulation.. As a result, it is possible that we will not achieve our targeted comparable restaurant sales or that the change in comparable restaurant sales could be negative. If this were to happen, sales and profitability would be adversely affected and our stock price would likely decline. Further, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do to withstand prolonged periods of declines in comparable restaurant sales and regional and national restaurant companies continue to expand their operations into our current market areas, thereby increasing competition for market share.. We depend upon high levels of consumer traffic at the sites where our restaurants are located and any adverse change in consumer activity could negatively affect our restaurant sales and have required us to record an impairment charge for restaurants performing below expectations, and may result in future impairments.. Our restaurants are primarily located in high-activity areas such as retail centers, shopping malls, and lifestyle centers. We depend on high consumer traffic rates at these centers to attract customers to our restaurants. In general, such visit frequencies are significantly affected by many factors, including national, regional or local economic conditions, anchor tenants closing in retail centers or shopping malls in which we operate, changes in consumer preferences or shopping patterns, changes in demographic and economic patterns in neighborhoods and trade areas where our restaurants are located, higher frequency of online shopping, changes in discretionary consumer spending, changes in gasoline prices, or otherwise. Several shopping malls experienced declining consumer traffic in recent years. If visitor rates to these centers continue to decline, our unit volumes could decline and adversely affect our results of operations. We recorded long-lived asset impairment charges of $9.3 million and $12.5 million, for the years ended December 31, 2017, and 2016 respectively. Such amounts are included in \"Asset impairment charge\" in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss. See Note 2 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the impairment charges. We may be required to record impairment charges in the future if our restaurants perform below expectations.. 10. Our failure to satisfy financial covenants and/or repayment requirements under our credit facility could harm our financial condition which could materially adversely affect our financial performance.. We have a secured credit facility consisting of a $25 million revolver and a $15 million term loan (collectively, the “credit facility”). As of December 31, 2017, we had $37.8 million outstanding under the credit facility. The credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial covenants. At December 31, 2017, we were not in compliance with these covenants and the credit facility was subsequently amended to alter the financial covenants so that the financial covenants were met as of December 31, 2017. However, any failure to maintain these financial covenants or have sufficient liquidity to repay principal payments when due or the then outstanding balance at the expiration of the credit facility, or upon violation of the covenants, would materially adversely affect our financial condition and performance. There can be no assurance that in the future the Company will be in compliance with all covenants or that its lenders would waive any violations of such covenants. Non-compliance with debt covenants by the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition and impact our ability to continue as a going concern.. Our failure to meet operating performance expectations could result in serious doubt about our ability to remain a going concern.. The financial statements included in this report have been prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern. The Company has incurred losses resulting in an accumulated deficit of $79.7 million, has a net working capital deficit of $7.6 million and outstanding debt of $37.8 million as of December 31, 2017. These conditions together with recent debt covenant violations and subsequent debt covenant waivers and debt amendments, raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon the Company generating profitable operations, improving liquidity and reducing costs to meet its obligations and repay its liabilities arising from normal business operations when they become due. The Company has evaluated its plans to alleviate this doubt, which will include slowing new restaurant development, implementing cost-savings initiatives and evaluating potential closure of underperforming restaurants. While the Company believes that its existing cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2017, coupled with its anticipated cash flow generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet its anticipated cash requirements, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in its plans to increase profitability or to obtain alternative financing on acceptable terms, when required or if at all. If such plans are not realized, the Company may be forced to limit its business activities or be unable to continue as a going concern, which will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. These financial statements included in this report do not include any adjustments to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern.. Our future financial growth depends in part on our ability to open new restaurants and operate them profitably, and if we are unable to successfully execute this strategy, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our financial success depends in part on management’s ability to execute our growth strategy. One key element of our growth strategy is opening new restaurants. After opening eight restaurants during 2016, we opened only one restaurant during 2017. Our current plans are for modest growth over the next few years as we focus on improving the profitability of our existing restaurants. Our ability to open new restaurants and operate them profitably is dependent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfinding quality sites, competing effectively to obtain quality sites and reaching acceptable agreements to lease sites;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcomplying with applicable zoning, land use and environmental regulations and obtaining, for an acceptable cost, required permits and approvals;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\thaving adequate capital for construction and opening costs and efficiently managing the time and resources committed to building and opening each new restaurant;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttimely hiring and training and retaining the skilled management and other employees necessary to meet staffing needs;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsuccessfully promoting our concept and competing in new markets;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tacquiring food and other supplies for new restaurants from local suppliers; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\taddressing unanticipated problems or risks that may arise during the development or opening of a new restaurant or entering a new market.. We have opened and intend to open restaurants in markets in which we have no prior operating experience and in which our brand may not be well-known. These new markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes, and discretionary spending patterns than restaurants in our existing markets. Accordingly, sales at restaurants opening in new markets may take longer to achieve or may not achieve average unit volumes comparable with our existing restaurants.. 11. Additionally, a new restaurant typically experiences a “ramp-up” period of approximately 18 months or more before it achieves our targeted level of performance. This is due to the costs associated with opening a new restaurant, as well as higher operating costs caused by start-up and other temporary inefficiencies associated with opening new restaurants. For example, there are a number of factors which may impact the amount of time and money we commit to the construction and development of new restaurants, including landlord delays, shortages of skilled labor, labor disputes, shortages of materials, delays in obtaining necessary permits, local government regulations and weather interference. Once the restaurant is open, how quickly it achieves a desired level of profitability is impacted by many factors, including the level of market familiarity and acceptance when we enter new markets, as well as the availability of experienced staff and the time required to negotiate reasonable prices for services and other supplies from local suppliers. Our business and profitability may be adversely affected if the “ramp-up” period for a new restaurant lasts longer than we expect.. To the extent that we open new restaurants, we may be adversely affected by delays or problems associated with securing suitable restaurant locations and leases and by other factors, some of which are beyond our control and the timing of which is difficult to forecast accurately.. Due in part to the unique nature of each proposed restaurant location, we cannot predict the timing or ultimate success of our site selection process or our ability to open new restaurants on a timely basis after we have identified sites. Our long-term goal is to strategically expand the Kona Grill concept in both new and existing markets.. There can be no assurance that any unit growth goal will be realized because our ability to open new restaurants depends upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe availability and cost of suitable restaurant locations for development and our ability to compete successfully for those locations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulty negotiating leases with acceptable terms;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcash flow generated by our existing restaurants;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelay or cancellation of new site development by developers and landlords, which may become increasingly common during periods of economic uncertainty;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulty managing construction and development costs of new restaurants at affordable levels, particularly in competitive markets;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlabor shortages or disputes experienced by our landlords or outside contractors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunforeseen engineering or environmental problems with the leased premises;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to secure governmental approvals and permits, including liquor licenses, construction permits, and occupancy permits;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tobstacles to hiring and training qualified operating personnel in the local market, especially in highly competitive hiring environment;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinclement weather, impact of climate change, natural disasters and other calamities; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral economic conditions.. Any deterioration in general economic conditions could have a material adverse impact on our landlords or on businesses neighboring our locations, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.. Any deterioration in general economic conditions could result in our landlords being unable to obtain financing or remain in good standing under their existing financing arrangements which could result in their failure to satisfy obligations to us under leases, including failures to fund or reimburse agreed-upon tenant improvement allowances. Any such failure could adversely impact our operations. Our restaurants are generally located in retail developments with nationally recognized co-tenants, which help increase overall customer traffic into those retail developments. Some of our co-tenants have or may cease operations in the future or have deferred openings or fail to open in a retail development after committing to do so. These failures may lead to reduced customer traffic and a general deterioration in the surrounding retail centers in which our restaurants are located and may contribute to lower customer traffic at our restaurants. If these retail developments experience high vacancy rates, we could experience decreases in customer traffic. As a result, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. 12. Closing restaurants or terminating leases could adversely impact our cash flow.. We enter into long-term leases, usually with ten year terms. To the extent that we must close a restaurant because of poor economic performance, or to the extent that we do not develop a restaurant for which we have signed a lease, we may be required to expend significant financial resources to terminate such lease. Further, poor operating results at any one restaurant or a delay or cancellation in the planned opening of a restaurant could materially affect the financial performance for a particular period and perception of our company, making the investment risks related to any one location more significant than those associated with larger restaurant companies who have substantially greater financial and other resources.. Due to our small base of existing restaurants and the significant expenses required to open new restaurants, any decision to either reduce or accelerate the pace of openings may cause our future operating results to fluctuate significantly and affect our comparative financial performance.. Our preopening expenses have historically been significant. The amount of such expenses incurred in any one year or quarter is dependent on the number of restaurants expected to be opened during that time period. We expect the cash investment cost of our prototype restaurant on average to be approximately $2.6 million, net of landlord tenant improvement allowances averaging between $0.7 million and $1.2 million and excluding approximately $450,000 on average in cash preopening expenses. Actual costs may vary significantly depending upon a variety of factors, including the site and size of the restaurant and conditions in the local real estate and employment markets. The combination of our relatively small number of existing restaurants, the significant investment associated with each new restaurant, and the sales volumes of our new restaurants may cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly.. Adverse weather conditions, impact of climate change and natural disasters could adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain insurance at reasonable rates for natural disasters and other events which are beyond our control.. Adverse weather conditions can impact customer traffic at our restaurants, cause the temporary underutilization of outdoor patio seating and in more severe cases such as hurricanes, tornadoes and other natural disasters, cause temporary closures, sometimes for prolonged periods, which would negatively impact our revenue. Increasing frequency and unpredictability of adverse weather conditions due to climate change may result in decreased customer traffic. Changes in weather could result in interruptions to the availability of utilities, and shortages or interruption in the supply of food items and other supplies, which could increase our costs and negatively impact our operations.. Additionally, although we insure our restaurants against wind, flood, and other disasters, we may not be able to obtain insurance for these types of events for all of our restaurants at reasonable rates. A devastating natural disaster or other event in the vicinity of one of our restaurants could result in substantial losses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our domestic and international franchise growth may strain our infrastructure and resources, which could adversely affect our ability to manage our existing restaurants.. Managing our existing operations and planning for long-term growth along with supporting our international franchise partners with their new restaurant openings will increase demands on our available cash resources, as well as demands on our management team, restaurant management systems and resources, financial controls and information systems. These increased demands may adversely affect our ability to open new restaurants and to manage and when appropriate, remodel our existing restaurants. If we fail to continue to improve our infrastructure or to manage other factors necessary for us to meet our expansion objectives, our growth rate and operating results could be adversely affected.. 13. We may not be successful in our international franchise initiative or such expansion may adversely affect our financial performance.. We are expanding into international markets, initially in Mexico, the United Arab Emirates and Canada where we have executed development agreements. Similar to other brands with an international presence, we are utilizing a franchise model for development outside of the U.S., providing training and operational support to our partners without committing, or putting at risk, capital for restaurant construction in these international markets. It takes time for us to identify franchise partners and negotiate franchise agreements and for our partners to find quality real estate and construct the restaurants. We then need to train the local team on our food and hospitality standards to ensure a successful execution of our strategy.. As we continue to pursue our international market expansion, we may not be fully aware of the significant development efforts involved and barriers to entry into these markets. Accordingly, even though we are attempting to manage the necessary capital investment through the utilization of the franchise model, we may incur more expenses than originally anticipated and our investment may take additional time to come to fruition. Furthermore, there is a risk that we may not be successful in our international business development efforts. In that case, we may not be able to recover all of the investments incurred. Additionally, our attempt to expand internationally could result in significant distraction or diversion of resources from our existing operations in the U.S.. There is no assurance that we will find the proper franchisees to successfully expand internationally, or that the franchised restaurants in foreign markets will gain market acceptance or be able to operate on a profitable basis. Our international operations are subject to many of the same risks associated with our domestic operations, as well as a number of additional risks. These include, among other things, international economic and political conditions, and differing cultures and consumer preferences.. Our international expansion and global brand development efforts could negatively affect our brand or could result in sanctions or liability for violations of regulations or legal actions.. Our business expansion into international markets could create new risks to our brand and reputation. We believe that we will be able to select high-caliber international operating partners with significant experience; however, there is risk that our brand value or financial results could be harmed by factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in achieving the consistency of product quality and service as compared to restaurants we operate in the U.S.;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges to our recipes and beverages due to cultural differences;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinability to obtain adequate and reliable supplies of ingredients and products necessary to execute our diverse menu; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifferences, changes or uncertainties in economic, regulatory, legal, social and political conditions.. Further, as we expand our brand internationally, we must comply with regulations and legal requirements, including those related to the protection of our trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property - see “Our failure to protect our trademarks, service marks, or trade secrets could negatively affect our competitive position and the value of the Kona Grill brand” below. We will have additional exposure to foreign tax laws and regulations. Additionally, we will need to comply with both domestic laws affecting U.S. businesses that operate internationally and foreign laws in the countries in which we expand our restaurants, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, under which we have not had exposure prior to our international expansion. Failure to comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions. Also, we may become subject to lawsuits or other legal actions resulting from the acts or omissions of our operating partners and, even though we may have taken reasonable steps to protect against such liabilities, including by obtaining contractual indemnifications and insurance coverage, there is no assurance that we will not incur liability that is not covered by such protection, or incur costs and expenses as a result of our operating partners’ conduct even when we are not legally liable. Any of these risks could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 14. Failure to attract, retain and motivate effective leaders and the loss of key personnel could negatively impact our business.. Our future success is highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain key management and operations personnel. We must be able to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified management and operations personnel, including culinary and training personnel, directors of operations, general managers and executive chefs. Our executive officers provide a vision for our company, execute our business strategy, and maintain consistency in the operating standards of our restaurants. The ability of key management and operations personnel to maintain consistency in the quality and diversity of our menu offerings as well as service and hospitality for customers is a critical factor in our future success. Any failure to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel may harm our reputation and result in a loss of business.. Our failure to protect our trademarks, service marks, or trade secrets could negatively affect our competitive position and the value of the Kona Grill brand.. Our business prospects depend in part on our ability to develop favorable consumer recognition of the Kona Grill name. Although Kona Grill is a federally registered trademark, our trademarks and service marks could be imitated in ways that we cannot prevent. Alternatively, third parties may attempt to cause us to change our name or not operate in a certain geographic region if our name is confusingly similar to their name. In addition, we rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how, concepts, and recipes. Our methods of protecting this information may not be adequate. Moreover, we may face claims of misappropriation or infringement of third parties’ rights that could interfere with our use of this information. Defending these claims may be costly and, if unsuccessful, may prevent us from continuing to use this proprietary information in the future, and may result in a judgment or monetary damages. Additionally, we do not maintain confidentiality and non-competition agreements with all of our executives, key personnel, or suppliers. If competitors independently develop or otherwise obtain access to our trade secrets, proprietary know-how, or recipes, the appeal of our restaurants could be reduced and our business could be harmed.. Furthermore, we have not registered all of our trademarks and service marks throughout the world as doing so may not be feasible because of associated costs or various foreign trademark law prohibitions. Our inability to effectively protect our intellectual property domestically or internationally may result in limiting our ability to globally expand our brand thereby adversely affecting our financial performance.. Our business could be adversely impacted if our information technology and computer systems do not perform properly or if we fail to protect our customers’ or our employees’ information. Additionally, the inappropriate use of social media vehicles could harm our reputation and adversely impact our business.. We rely heavily on information technology to conduct our business, including point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, collection of cash, payment of obligations and various other processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. Any material failure, interruption of service, or compromised data security, problems with maintenance, upgrading or transitioning to replacement systems or a breach in security of these systems could cause delays in customer service and reduce efficiency in our operations and could otherwise adversely affect our operations. While we take data security very seriously and expend significant resources to ensure that our information technology operates securely and effectively, any security breaches could result in disruptions to operations or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, and significant capital investments might be required to remediate such security breaches.. Additionally, we rely on search engine marketing and social media platforms to attract and retain customers as part of our marketing efforts. A variety of risks are associated with the use of social media, including the improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about our company, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, or outdated information. The inappropriate use of social media vehicles by our customers or employees could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation.. 15. A data security breach involving a customer’s or employee’s personal data could have a material adverse effect on our business, could adversely affect our reputation and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties, which could adversely affect our financial performance.. We receive and maintain certain personal information about our customers and employees. For example, we transmit confidential credit card information in connection with credit card transactions, and we are required to collect and maintain certain personal information in connection with our employment practices, including the administration of our benefit plans. The collection and use of this information by us is regulated at the federal and state levels, and the regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is increasingly demanding. In addition, our ability to accept credit cards as payment in our restaurants and for on-line gift card orders depends on us remaining compliant with standards set by the PCI Security Standards Council. If our security and information systems are compromised or our employees or authorized third parties fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.. These standards require certain levels of system security and procedures to protect our customers’ credit card and other personal information. We utilize both internal resources and external consultants to reduce the likelihood of any security failures or breaches. However, we can provide no assurance that these security measures will be successful. If these security measures are not successful, we may become subject to litigation against us or the imposition of regulatory penalties, which could result in negative publicity and significantly harm our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we may incur additional costs to ensure that we remain in compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance.. Risks Related to the Restaurant Industry. Changes in food and supply costs could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs. Like all restaurant companies, we are susceptible to increases in food costs as a result of factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, seasonal fluctuations, weather conditions, demand, food safety concerns, product recalls and government regulations. Although we can purchase certain commodities under contract, we currently do not use financial management strategies or have long-term contracts in place for the majority of commodities to reduce our exposure to price fluctuations. Changes in the price or availability of seafood, poultry, beef, grains, dairy or produce could affect our ability to offer a broad menu and price offering to customers and could reduce our operating margins and adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs through our purchasing practices and menu price adjustments in the future, and failure to do so could negatively impact our sales and results of operations.. Changes in governmental regulation may adversely affect our ability to maintain our existing and future operations and to open new restaurants.. We are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act (which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions), along with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, various family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted, or rules and regulations promulgated by federal, state and local governmental authorities that govern these and other employment matters, including tip credits, working conditions, safety standards and immigration status. We expect increases in payroll expenses as a result of federal and state mandated increases in the minimum wage, and although such increases are not expected to be material, we cannot assure you that there will not be material increases in the future. Enactment and enforcement of various federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations on immigration and labor organizations may adversely impact the availability and costs of labor for our restaurants in a particular area or across the United States. Other labor shortages or increased employee turnover could also increase labor costs. In addition, our vendors may be affected by higher minimum wage standards or availability of labor, which may increase the price of goods and services they supply to us.. 16. We offer eligible full-time salaried employees and eligible variable-hour employees the opportunity to enroll in healthcare coverage subsidized by us. We adopted a qualifying plan under the Affordable Care Act for our eligible variable-hour employees, which has increased our labor costs. It is also possible that recent changes in the healthcare plans we offer could make us less attractive to our current or potential employees. Additionally, the Affordable Care Act has imposed additional administrative costs on us, and those costs may increase over time. The costs and other effects of the Affordable Care Act and potential changes to healthcare requirements cannot be determined with certainty, but they may have a material adverse effect on our financial and operating results.. We are also subject to laws and regulations, which vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, relating to nutritional content and menu labeling. Compliance with these laws and regulations may lead to increased costs and operational complexity, changes in sales mix and profitability, and increased exposure to governmental investigations or litigation. We cannot reliably anticipate any changes in customer behavior if we alter our recipes to comply with such laws and regulations. This could have adverse effects on our sales or results of operations.. Furthermore, we are subject to federal and state environmental regulations, and although these have not had a material negative effect on our operations, we cannot ensure that there will not be a material negative effect in the future. In particular, the U.S. has increased focus on environmental matters such as climate change, greenhouse gases and water conservation. This increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating an as yet unspecified array of environmental matters. These efforts could result in increased taxation or in future restrictions on or increases in costs associated with food and other restaurant supplies, transportation costs and utility costs, any of which could decrease our operating profits and/or necessitate future investments in our restaurant facilities and equipment to achieve compliance. Further, more stringent and varied requirements of local and state governmental bodies with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay, prevent or make cost prohibitive the continuing operations of an existing restaurant or the development of new restaurants in particular locations.. The impact of current laws and regulations, the effect of future changes in laws or regulations that impose additional requirements and the consequences of litigation relating to current or future laws and regulations, or our inability to respond effectively to significant regulatory or public policy issues, could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business and therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings.. Regulations affecting the operation of our restaurants could increase operating costs, restrict our growth, or require us to suspend operations.. Each of our restaurants must obtain licenses from regulatory authorities allowing it to sell liquor, beer, and wine, and each restaurant must obtain a food service license from local health authorities. Each restaurant’s liquor license must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended at any time for cause, including violation by us or our employees of any laws and regulations relating to the minimum drinking age, over serving, advertising, wholesale purchasing, and inventory control. Each restaurant is also subject to local health inspections. Failure to pass one or multiple inspections may result in temporary or permanent suspension of operations and could significantly impact our reputation. In certain states, including states where we have existing restaurants or where we may open restaurants in the future, the number of liquor licenses available is limited and licenses are traded at market prices. Liquor, beer, and wine sales comprise a significant portion of our sales, representing 27.3% of our sales during 2017. Therefore, if we are unable to maintain our existing licenses, or if we choose to open a restaurant in those states, the cost of a new license could be significant. Obtaining and maintaining licenses is an important component of each of our restaurant’s operations, and the failure to obtain or maintain food and liquor licenses and other required licenses, permits, and approvals would adversely impact our restaurants and our growth strategy.. 17. A failure to maintain food safety throughout the supply chain and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business.. Food safety is a top priority, and we dedicate substantial resources to ensuring that our guests enjoy safe, quality food products. However, food safety issues could be caused at the point of source or by food suppliers or distributors and, as a result, may be out of our control. In addition, regardless of the source or cause, any report of food-borne illnesses such as E. coli, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella, and other food safety issues including food tampering or contamination, at one of our restaurants could adversely affect the reputation of our brand and have a negative impact on our sales. Even instances of food-borne illness, food tampering or food contamination occurring solely at restaurants of our competitors could result in negative publicity about the food service industry generally and adversely impact our sales and could result in stricter government regulation, which could increase our costs. The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, resulting in higher costs and lower margins.. Negative publicity surrounding our restaurants or the consumption of beef, seafood, poultry, or produce generally, or shifts in consumer tastes, could negatively impact the popularity of our restaurants, our sales, and our results of operations.. The popularity of our restaurants in general, and our menu offerings in particular, are key factors to the success of our operations. Negative publicity resulting from poor food quality, illness, injury, or other health concerns, whether related to one of our restaurants or to the beef, seafood, poultry, or produce industries in general (such as negative publicity concerning salmonella, E-coli, hepatitis A, mercury poisoning and other food-borne illnesses), or operating problems related to one or more of our restaurants, could make our brand and menu offerings less appealing to consumers. In addition, other shifts in consumer preferences away from the kinds of food we offer, whether because of dietary or other health concerns or otherwise, would make our restaurants less appealing and adversely affect our sales and results of operations. If our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other restaurants in new and existing markets, our results of operations will be harmed and we may not achieve profitability.. Litigation concerning our food quality, employment practices, liquor liability, and other issues could result in significant expenses to us and could divert resources from our operations.. Like other restaurants, we may receive complaints or litigation from, and potential liability to, our customers involving food-borne illness or injury or other operational issues. We may also be subject to complaints or allegations from, and potential liability to, our former, existing, or prospective employees involving our restaurant employment practices and procedures. We are currently engaged in litigation in Minnesota with respect to that state’s tip pooling statutes. Although the Company is in the early stages of discovery and does not expect the result of such complaint to have a material adverse effect on the Company, there is no assurance that any adverse ruling or settlement in that matter would not have a material impact on the Company’s cash position and operations. In addition, we are subject to state “dram shop” laws and regulations, which generally provide that a person injured by an intoxicated person may seek to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to such person. Recent litigation against restaurant chains has resulted in significant judgments, including punitive damages, under “dram shop” statutes. While we carry liquor liability coverage as part of our existing comprehensive general liability insurance, we may still be subject to a judgment in excess of our insurance coverage and we may not be able to obtain or continue to maintain such insurance coverage at reasonable costs, if at all. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are liable, our sales may be adversely affected by publicity resulting from such claims. Such claims may also be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and adversely affect our business.. Labor shortages or increases in labor costs could slow our growth or adversely affect our business.. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, motivate, and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including restaurant managers and kitchen managers, necessary to continue our operations. This ability is especially critical to our company because of our relatively small number of existing restaurants. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, our business and growth strategy could be adversely affected.. 18. Competition for qualified restaurant employees in current or prospective markets could require us to pay higher wages and benefits, which could result in higher labor costs. In addition, we have a substantial number of hourly employees who are paid rates based upon the federal or state minimum wage and who rely on tips for a significant portion of their income. Government-mandated increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, health and other benefits, or increased tax reporting and tax payment requirements for employees who receive gratuities, or a reduction in the number of states that allow tips to be credited toward minimum wage requirements, could increase our labor costs. We may be unable to generate enough operating efficiencies or increase our menu prices proportionately in order to mitigate these increased costs, in which case our operating margins would be adversely affected.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The market price for our common stock may be volatile.. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall, including the following:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual financial results;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe financial guidance and growth projections we may provide to the public, any changes in such guidance and projections, or our failure to meet such guidance and projections;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to maintain certain financial covenants and remain in compliance with these covenants under our credit facility.. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe failure of industry or securities analysts to maintain coverage of our company, changes in financial estimates by any industry or securities analysts that follow our company, or our failure to meet such estimates;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the market valuations of other companies in the restaurant industry;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated variations in comparable restaurant sales or operating results; whether in our operations or those of our competitors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in consumer preferences or spending;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvarious market factors or perceived market factors, including rumors, whether or not correct, involving us, our customers, our strategic partners, or our competitors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock, including short selling by investors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditions or departures of key personnel;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulatory or political developments;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlitigation and governmental or regulatory investigations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tacquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral economic, political, and financial market conditions or events.. Due to the volatility of our stock price, we also may become the target of securities litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources from the business as well as depress the price of our common stock.. 19. Our current principal stockholders own a large percentage of our voting stock, which allows them to control substantially all matters requiring stockholder approval.. Two of our independent directors and our chief executive officer together currently own 27.4% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these investors may have significant influence over a decision to enter into any corporate transaction and may have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders, regardless of whether or not our other stockholders believe that such transaction is in their own best interests. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change of control or other business combination, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their shares of common stock.. The large number of shares eligible for public sale could depress the market price of our common stock.. The market price for our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, and the perception that these sales could occur may depress the market price. As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding 10,109,715 shares of common stock, all of which shares are either freely tradable or otherwise eligible for sale under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, we have 1,661,126 shares available for issuance under our stock award and employee stock purchase plans. We have filed registration statements under the securities laws to register the common stock to be issued under these plans. As a result, shares issued under these plans will be freely tradable without restriction unless acquired by affiliates of our company, who will be subject to the volume and other limitations of Rule 144.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, discourage a takeover, and adversely affect existing stockholders.. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult, delaying, or deterring attempts by others to obtain control of our company, even when these attempts may be viewed to be in the best interests of stockholders. These include provisions on our maintaining a classified Board of Directors and limiting the stockholders’ powers to remove directors or take action by written consent instead of at a stockholders’ meeting. Delaware law also imposes conditions on the voting of “control shares” and on certain business combination transactions with “interested stockholders.” In addition, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. These provisions may also limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests.. We have a stockholder rights plan (known as a “poison pill”) which could affect our common stock price and make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to purchase a large portion of our securities, to initiate a tender offer or a proxy contest, or to acquire us.. In September 2016, our Board of Directors adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan, commonly known as a “poison pill,” with a term through September 2019. This poison pill may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring a large portion of our securities, initiating a tender offer or proxy contest, or acquiring us through an acquisition, merger or similar transaction even if our stockholders might receive a premium for their stock over the then-current market price in the event of such transaction.. Since we do not expect to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future, holders of our common stock may be forced to sell their stock in order to obtain a return on their investment.. We do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Instead, we plan to reinvest any earnings to finance our restaurant operations and growth plans. Accordingly, stockholders must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any return on their investment. As a result, investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock.. 20. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected.. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to furnish a report on our internal control over financial reporting. The report contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management.. While we have determined that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2017, as indicated in our Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we must continue to monitor and assess our internal control over financial reporting. If our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and such weakness remains uncorrected at fiscal year-end, we will be unable to assert such internal control is effective at fiscal year-end. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective at fiscal year-end, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and the price of our common stock."                                                                                                   
