[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have experienced a history of losses and have a significant accumulated deficit. In addition, we have had negative cash flow from operating activities in 2017 and 2016 and we expect to have negative cash flow from operating activities in 2018. Since inception, we have incurred significant net operating losses. As of December 30, 2017, we have an accumulated deficit of $240.1 million. At December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we had $68.8 million and $77.2 million of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, respectively. For the years 2017 and 2016 net cash used in operating activities was $25.9 million and $26.2 million, respectively. The decline in our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities is partially a result of funding our operating losses of which a significant component is our investments in research and development for Wearable products. Our products are targeted towards the wearable market which we believe is still developing and we cannot predict how long the wearable market will take to develop or if our products will be accepted if the market is created. Accordingly, we believe it is important to continue to invest in research and development even during periods when we are not profitable. Our philosophy and strategies may result in our incurring losses from operations and negative cash flow.. The market segment for our Wearable products may not develop or may take longer to develop than we anticipate which may impact our ability to grow revenues. We have developed head-worn, voice and gesture controlled, hands-free cloud computing headset systems which we intend to sell and license to customers and various components for wearable devices which we intend to sell to customers as either a part of the license arrangement or separately. We refer to our headset systems and components sold to customers for use in wearable applications as our Wearable products. Our success will depend on the acceptance of wearable products by consumers and in particular the widespread adoption of the headset format. We are unable to predict when or if consumers will adopt wearable products. Customers may determine that the headset is not comfortable, weighs too much, costs too much or provides too little functionality. In addition, the wearable headset products may be accepted by consumers but Wearable product manufactures may choose to manufacture our competitors' products. Our success in commercializing our Wearable products is very important in our ability to achieve positive cash flow and profitability. If we are unable to commercialize our Wearable products we may not be able to increase revenues, achieve profitability or positive cash flow.. Our revenues and cash flows could be negatively affected if sales of our Display products for military applications significantly decline. Over the last several years a primary source of our military revenues has been the sale of our display products to the military for use in thermal weapon sights. We currently are designed in certain systems and are in qualification for other certain systems in the Family Weapon Sight (\"FWS\") program, which we believe is the next significant government procurement program that uses our technology. We may not be awarded the systems we are in qualification for and for the system we are qualified for we may only be awarded a portion of the program as the U.S. military looks to have multiple sources when possible. In addition, the government could postpone or cancel the programs. Our ability to generate revenues and cash flow from sales to the U.S. military is dependent on our display products being qualified and remaining qualified in the F-35 Strike Fighter, FWS and other U.S. military programs and the U.S. military funding these programs. We believe the U.S. military is evaluating alternative display technologies for the F-35 Strike Fighter program. Our ability to generate revenues and cash flow from sales to the U.S. military is also dependent on winning contracts in competition against our competitors. If we are unable to be qualified into new U.S. military programs, remain qualified in existing programs, win orders against our competition or military programs are not funded our ability to generate revenues, achieve profitability and positive cash flow will be negatively impacted.. 13. Table of Contents. Our ability to manufacture and distribute our Display products would be severely limited if the foundries that we rely on to manufacture integrated circuits for our Display products fail to provide those services. We depend principally on a Taiwanese foundry for the fabrication of integrated circuits for our display products. In addition, we rely on foundry service for OLED deposition and processing of OLED displays. We have no long-term contracts with the Chinese, Taiwanese or Korean foundries and from time to time we have been put on allocation which means the foundry will limit the number of wafers they will process for us. We have an agreement with a Chinese foundry which entitles us to 50 percent of certain production capacity but not the entire manufacturing line to manufacture OLED displays. If the foundries were to terminate their arrangement with us or become unable to provide the required capacity and quality on a timely basis, we may not be able to manufacture and ship our display products or we may be forced to manufacture them in limited quantities until replacement foundry services can be obtained. Furthermore, we cannot assure investors that we would be able to establish alternative manufacturing and packaging relationships on acceptable terms.. Our reliance on these foundries involves certain risks, including but not limited to:. • Lack of control over production capacity and delivery schedules;. • Limited control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs;. • The risks associated with international commerce, including unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements, changes in tariffs and trade policies and political and economic instability; and. • Natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunami, mudslides, drought, hurricanes and tornadoes.. Due to natural disasters such as earthquakes and typhoons that have occasionally occurred in Asia, many Taiwanese companies, including the Taiwanese foundry we use, have experienced related business interruptions. Our business could suffer significantly if either of the foundries we use had operations which were disrupted for an extended period of time due to natural disaster, political unrest or financial instability.. We depend on third parties to provide integrated circuit chip sets and critical raw materials for use with our headset systems and components and we periodically receive \"end of life\" notices from suppliers that they will no longer be providing a raw material. We do not manufacture the integrated circuit chip sets which are used to electronically interface between our display products and our customer's products. Instead, we rely on third party independent contractors for these integrated circuit chip sets. We purchase critical raw materials such as special glasses, special SOI wafers, adhesives, chemicals, lenses, backlights, printed circuit boards and other components from third party suppliers. Some of these third party contractors and suppliers are small companies with limited financial resources. In addition, relative to the commercial market, the military buys a small number of units which prevents us from qualifying and buying components economically from multiple vendors. We periodically receive notices from suppliers of our critical raw materials regarding their plans to stop selling the raw materials. This requires us to identify another raw material and/or raw material supplier, to replace the discontinued item/supplier. We then have to internally re-qualify the product with the new material and we may be required to re-qualify the product with our customer. If any of these third party contractors or suppliers were unable or unwilling to supply these integrated circuit chip sets or critical raw materials to us, whether for business or regulatory reasons, we would be unable to manufacture and sell our display products until a replacement material could be found. We may not be able to find a replacement material or chemical or if we are able to find a replacement material we may be unable to sell our products until they have been qualified both internally and with the customer. Lower volume purchases may make it uneconomical for some of our suppliers to provide raw materials we need. We cannot assure investors that a replacement third party contractor or supplier could be found on reasonable terms or in a timely manner. Any interruption in our ability to manufacture and distribute our display products could cause our display business to be unsuccessful and the value of investors' investment in us may decline.. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and rapidly changing and we may be unable to compete successfully. There are a number of companies that develop or may develop products that compete in our targeted markets.. The individual components that we offer for sale (displays, optical lenses, backlights and ASICs, Whisper) are also offered by companies whose sole business is the individual component. For example, there are companies whose sole business is to sell optical lenses. Accordingly, our strategy requires us to develop technologies and to compete in multiple markets. Some of our competitors are much larger than we are and have significantly greater financial, development and marketing resources than we do. The competition in these markets could adversely affect our operating results by reducing the volume of the products we sell or the prices we can charge. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than we can to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do.. Our success will depend substantially upon our ability to enhance our products and technologies and to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products and features that meet changing customer requirements and. 14. Table of Contents. incorporate technological enhancements. If we are unable to develop new products and enhance functionalities or technologies to adapt to these changes, our business will suffer.. Disruptions of our production of our Display products would adversely affect our operating results. If we were to experience any significant disruption in the operation of our facilities, we would be unable to supply our display products to our customers. Many of our sales contracts include financial penalties for late delivery. In the past, we have experienced power outages at our facilities which ranged in duration from one to four days. We have certain critical pieces of equipment necessary to operate the facility which are no longer offered for sale and we may not have service contracts or spare parts for the equipment. Additionally, as we introduce new equipment into our manufacturing processes, our display products could be subject to especially wide variations in manufacturing yields and efficiency. We may experience manufacturing problems that would result in delays in product introduction and delivery or yield fluctuations.. A disruption to our information technology systems could significantly impact our operations and impact our revenue and profitability. Our data processing systems are cloud based and hosted by third parties. We also use software packages which are no longer supported by their developer. We have experienced short term (i.e., a few days) interruptions in our Internet connectivity. An interruption to the third party systems or in the infrastructure which allows us to connect to the third party systems for an extended period may impact our ability to operate the businesses and process transactions which could result in a decline in sales and affect our ability to achieve or maintain profitability.. If our information technology security systems are penetrated and confidential and or proprietary information were taken we could be subject to fines, law suits and loss of customers. Significantly larger organizations with much greater resources than us have been the victim of cybercrimes. We are routinely sent emails which are probing our Internet security. Our Internet security systems have detected outside organizations attempting to install Trojan virus software packages in our systems. We rely on our electronic information systems to perform the routine transactions to run our business. We transact business over the Internet with customers, vendors and our subsidiaries. We have implemented security measures to protect unauthorized access to this information. We have also implemented security policies which limit access via the Internet from the company to the outside world based on the individual's position in the company. We routinely receive security patches for the software we use from the software providers. Our primary concerns are inappropriate access to personnel information, information covered under the International Traffic in Arms Regulation, product designs and manufacturing information, financial information and our intellectual property, trade secrets and know-how. If our security systems are penetrated and confidential and or proprietary information were taken we could be subject to fines, law suits and loss of customers.. Our headset system is dependent on software which we have limited experience in developing, marketing or licensing. Our headset systems include a combination of commercially available software and operating and speech enhancement software that we internally developed or acquired. In addition, we are offering Whisper Chip which is an integrated circuit that contains software developed by us. We have little experience in developing, marketing or licensing software. If we are unable to integrate internally developed or acquired software in our headset system we may not be able to license the designs. The market demand for our headset systems or the products our customers may develop based on our head set systems is dependent on our ability to collaborate with software developers who write application software in order to create utility in our customer's products. If we are unable to develop, license or acquire software or if we or the market in general, does not create a sufficient body of application software our systems may not be accepted by the market and we may not be able to increase revenues, achieve profitability or positive cash flow.. We license intellectual property rights of others. Included in our headset systems is software which we license from other companies. Should we violate the terms of a license, our license could be canceled. The companies may decide to stop supporting the software we license or new versions of the software may not be compatible with our software which would require us to rewrite our software which we may not be able to do. The license fees we pay may be increased which would negatively affect our ability to achieve profitability and positive cash flow. If we are unable to obtain and or maintain existing software license relationships our ability to grow revenue and achieve profitability and positive cash flow may be negatively affected.. Our headset systems use software that we license from other companies (\"Licensors\") and require us to access the Licensor's data centers and interruptions or delays in service from data center hosting facilities could impair our customer's products. Any damage to, or failure of, the systems of our Licensors generally could result in interruptions in service to our customers. Interruptions in service to our customers may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their contracts and reduce our ability to attract new customers.. 15. Table of Contents. We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property and proprietary rights and we may incur substantial costs in defending our intellectual property. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. We have obtained certain domestic and foreign patents and we intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions when appropriate. We also attempt to protect our proprietary information with contractual arrangements and under trade secret laws. Our employees and consultants generally enter into agreements containing provisions with respect to confidentiality and the assignment of rights to us for inventions made by them while in our employ or consulting for us. These measures may not adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Existing trade secret, trademark and copyright laws afford only limited protection and our patents could be invalidated, held to be unenforceable or circumvented. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold may not allow full protection of our intellectual property rights. Misappropriation of our technology and the costs of defending our intellectual property rights from misappropriation could substantially impair our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our business may not be successful and the value of investors' investment in us may decline.. Our products could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Companies in the wearable computing and display industries steadfastly pursue and protect their intellectual property rights. This has resulted in considerable and costly litigation to determine the validity and enforceability of patents and claims by third parties of infringement of patents or other intellectual property. Our products could be found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Other companies may hold or obtain patents on inventions or other proprietary rights in technology necessary for our business. Periodically companies inquire about our products and technology in their attempts to assess whether we violate their intellectual property rights. If we are forced to defend against patent infringement claims, we may face costly litigation, diversion of technical and management personnel, and product shipment delays, even if the allegations of infringement are unwarranted. If there is one or more successful claims of infringement against us and we are unable to develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely basis, or if we are required to cease using one or more of our business or product names due to a successful trademark infringement claim against us, our business could be adversely affected.. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of, or fail to attract, key personnel. In order to continue to provide quality products in our rapidly changing business, we believe it is important to retain personnel with experience and expertise relevant to our business. Our success depends in large part upon a number of key management and technical employees. The loss of the services of one or more key employees, including Dr. John C.C. Fan, our President and Chief Executive Officer, could seriously impede our success. We do not maintain any \"key-man\" insurance policies on Dr. Fan or any other employees. In addition, due to the level of technical and marketing expertise necessary to support our existing and new customers, our success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled management, technical, and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for highly skilled personnel is intense and there may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions. If the display markets experience an upturn, we may need to increase our workforce. Due to the competitive nature of the labor markets in which we operate, we may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining these personnel. Our inability to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our ability to develop and manufacture our products.. Our customers who purchase display products for military applications typically incorporate our products into their products which are sold to the U.S. government under contracts. U.S. government contracts generally are not fully funded at inception and may be terminated or modified prior to completion, which could adversely affect our business. Congress funds the vast majority of the federal budget on an annual basis, and Congress often does not provide agencies with all the money requested in their budget. Many of our customers' contracts cover multiple years and, as such, are not fully funded at contract award. If Congress or a U.S. government agency chooses to spend money on other programs, our customers' contracts may be terminated for convenience. Federal laws, collectively called the Anti-Deficiency Act, prohibit involving the government in any obligation to pay money before funds have been appropriated for that purpose, unless otherwise allowed by law. Therefore, the Anti-Deficiency Act indirectly regulates how the agency awards our contracts and pays our invoices. Federal government contracts generally contain provisions, and are subject to laws and regulations, that provide the federal government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including provisions permitting the federal government to, among other provisions: terminate our existing contracts; modify some of the terms and conditions in our existing contracts; subject the award to protest or challenge by competitors; suspend work under existing multiple year contracts and related delivery orders; and claim rights in technologies and systems invented, developed or produced by us.. The federal government may terminate a contract with us or our customer either \"for convenience\" (for instance, due to a change in its perceived needs) or if we default due to our failure or the failure of a subcontractor to perform under the contract. If the federal government terminates a contract with our customer, our contract with our customers generally would entitle us to recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. However, under certain circumstances, our recovery costs upon termination for convenience of such a contract may be limited.. 16. Table of Contents. As is common with government contractors, we have experienced occasional performance issues under some of our contracts. We may in the future receive show-cause or cure notices under contracts that, if not addressed to the federal government's satisfaction, could give the government the right to terminate those contracts for default or to cease procuring our services under those contracts.. In addition, U.S. government contracts and subcontracts typically involve long purchase and payment cycles, competitive bidding, qualification requirements, delays or changes in funding, extensive specification and performance requirements, price negotiations and milestone requirements. Each U.S. government agency often also maintains its own rules and regulations with which we must comply and which can vary significantly among agencies.. Most of our military sales are on a fixed-price basis, which could subject us to losses if there are cost overruns. Under a fixed-price contract, we receive only the amount indicated in the contract, regardless of the actual cost to produce the goods. While firm fixed-price contracts allow us to benefit from potential cost savings, they also expose us to the risk of cost overruns. If the initial estimates that we use to calculate the sales price and the cost to perform the work prove to be incorrect, we could incur losses. In addition, some of our contracts have specific provisions relating to cost, scheduling, and performance. If we fail to meet the terms specified in those contracts, then our cost to perform the work could increase, which would adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Some of the contracts we bid on have \"Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity\" or IDIQ provisions. This means we are bidding a fixed price but are not assured of the quantity the government will buy or when it will buy during the term of the contract. This means we are exposed to the risk of price increases for labor, overhead and raw materials during the term of the contract. We may incur losses on fixed-price and IDIQ contracts that we had expected to be profitable, or such contracts may be less profitable than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our customers, which makes forecasting our revenues and operating results difficult. We generally do not enter into long-term agreements with our customers obligating them to purchase our products. Our business is characterized by short-term purchase orders and shipment schedules and we generally permit orders to be canceled or rescheduled before shipment without significant penalty. As a result, our customers may cease purchasing our products at any time, which makes forecasting our revenues difficult. In addition, due to the absence of substantial non-cancelable backlog, we typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. Our operating results are difficult to forecast because we are continuing to invest in capital equipment and increasing our operating expenses for new product development. If we fail to accurately forecast our revenues and operating results, our business may not be successful and the value of investors' investment in us may decline.. If we fail to keep pace with changing technologies, we may lose customers. Rapidly changing customer requirements, evolving technologies and industry standards characterize our industries. To achieve our goals, we need to enhance our existing products and develop and market new products that keep pace with continuing changes in industry standards, requirements and customer preferences. If we cannot keep pace with these changes, our business could suffer.. Fluctuations in operating results make financial forecasting difficult and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly for numerous reasons, including:. • The timing of the initial selection of our Wearable technology and display products as components in our customers' new products;. • Availability of interface electronics for our display products;. • Competitive pressures on selling prices of our products;. • The timing and cancellation of customer orders;. • Our ability to introduce new products and technologies on a timely basis;. • Our ability to successfully reduce costs;. • The cancellation of U.S. government contracts; and. • Our ability to secure agreements from our major customers for the purchase of our products.. We typically plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of customer demand, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially. Our operating results are difficult to forecast because the markets for our products are developing and we lack historical results from which to project demand.. 17. Table of Contents. As a result of these and other factors, investors should not rely on our revenues and our operating results for any one quarter or year as an indication of our future revenues or operating results. If our quarterly revenues or results of operations fall below expectations of investors or public market analysts, the price of our common stock could fall substantially.. If we fail to comply with complex procurement laws and regulations, we could lose business and be liable for various penalties or sanctions. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our federal government contracts. In complying with these laws and regulations, we may incur additional costs, and non-compliance may also allow for the assignment of fines and penalties, including contractual damages. Among the more significant laws and regulations affecting our business are the following:. • The Federal Acquisition Regulation, which comprehensively regulates the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts;. • The Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations;. • The Cost Accounting Standards and Cost Principles, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based federal government contracts; and. • Laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products, services and technical data. We engage in international work falling under the jurisdiction of U.S. export control laws. Failure to comply with these control regimes can lead to severe penalties, both civil and criminal, and can include debarment from contracting with the U.S. government.. Our contracting agency customers may review our performance under and compliance with the terms of our federal government contracts. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including:. • Termination of contracts;. • Forfeiture of profits;. • Cost associated with triggering of price reduction clauses;. • Suspension of payments;. • Fines; and. • Suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies.. Additionally, the False Claims Act provides for potentially substantial civil penalties where, for example, a contractor presents a false or fraudulent claim to the government for payment or approval. Actions under the civil False Claims Act may be brought by the government or by other persons on behalf of the government (who may then share a portion of any recovery).. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we may also suffer harm to our reputation, which could impair our ability to win awards of contracts in the future or receive renewals of existing contracts. If we are subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions or suffer harm to our reputation, our current business, future prospects, financial condition, or operating results could be materially harmed.. The government may also revise its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, including cost accounting standards, at any time. Any new contracting methods could be costly to satisfy, be administratively difficult for us to implement and could impair our ability to obtain new contracts.. A decline in the U.S. government defense budget, changes in spending or budgetary priorities, prolonged U.S. government shutdown or delays in contract awards may significantly and adversely affect our future revenues, cash flow and financial results. In recent years, U.S. government appropriations have been affected by larger U.S. government budgetary issues and related legislation. In 2011, Congress enacted the Budget Control Act of 2011 (\"BCA\"), which established specific limits on annual appropriations for fiscal years (\"FY\") 2012 - 2021. The BCA has been amended a number of times, most recently by the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (\"BBA\"). As a result, Department of Defense (\"DoD\") funding levels have fluctuated over this period and have been difficult to predict. Future spending levels are subject to a wide range of outcomes, depending on Congressional action. In addition, in recent years the U.S. government has been unable to complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year, resulting in both a governmental shut-down and Continuing Resolutions (\"CRs\") to extend sufficient funds only for U.S. government agencies to continue operating. Additionally, the national debt has recently threatened to reach the statutory debt ceiling, and such an event in future years could result in the U.S. government defaulting on its debts.. 18. Table of Contents. As a result, defense spending levels are difficult to predict beyond the near-term due to numerous factors, including the external threat environment, future governmental priorities and the state of governmental finances. Significant changes in defense spending or changes in U.S. government priorities, policies and requirements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.. Customer demands and new regulations related to conflict-free minerals may adversely affect us. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the \"Act\") imposes new disclosure requirements regarding the use of \"conflict\" minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. These requirements could affect the pricing, sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices (including our products). We will incur additional costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products. Our supply chain is complex and we may be unable to verify the origins for all metals used in our products. We purchase materials from foreign sources and they may not cooperate and provide us with the necessary information to allow us to comply with the Act. This may require us to find alternative sources which could delay product shipments. We may also encounter challenges with our customers and stockholders if we are unable to certify that our products are conflict free. The current status of the government's enforcement of the Act is unclear.. The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has many provisions for which guidance has not yet been provided by the government. The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was enacted on December 22, 2017, and significantly affected U.S. tax law by changing how the U.S. imposes income tax on multinational corporations. The U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations in the period issued.. The Tax Act requires complex computations not previously provided in U.S. tax law. As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. Further, compliance with the Tax Act and the accounting for such provisions require accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced. As a result, we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the Tax Act in our financial statements. As additional regulatory guidance is issued by the applicable taxing authorities, as accounting treatment is clarified, as we perform additional analysis on the application of the law, and as we refine estimates in calculating the effect, our final analysis, which will be recorded in the period completed, may be different from our current provisional amounts, which could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. We may incur significant liabilities if we fail to comply with stringent environmental laws and regulations and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (\"ITAR\") or if we did not comply with these regulations in the past. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing process. We are also subject to federal ITAR laws which regulate the export of technical data and export of products to other nations which may use these products for military purposes. The failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, suspension of production, or a cessation of operations. Any failure on our part to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances, or otherwise comply with environmental regulations, could subject us to significant future liabilities. Any failure on our part to obtain any required licenses for the export of technical data and/or export of our products or to otherwise comply with ITAR, could subject us to significant future liabilities. In addition, we cannot be certain that we have not in the past violated applicable laws or regulations, which violations could result in required remediation or other liabilities. We also cannot be certain that past use or disposal of environmentally sensitive materials in conformity with then existing environmental laws and regulations will protect us from required remediation or other liabilities under current or future environmental laws or regulations.. We may be unable to modify our products to meet regulatory or customer requirements. From time to time our display products are subject to new domestic and international requirements such as the European Union's Restriction on Hazardous Substances (\"RoHS\") Directive. Our customers are requiring that we are in compliance with \"all laws\" in their terms and conditions. If we are unable to comply with these regulations we may not be permitted to ship our products, which would adversely affect our revenue and ability to maintain profitability. In addition, if we are found to be in violation of laws we may be subject to fines and penalties.. 19. Table of Contents. We may pursue acquisitions and investments that could adversely affect our business. In the past we have made, and in the future we may make, acquisitions of, and investments in, businesses, products and technologies that could complement or expand our business. If we identify an acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses, products or technologies into our existing business and products. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets. In 2017, 2015, 2012 and 2011, we acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of NVIS, we increased our ownership of the outstanding shares of Kopin Software Ltd to 100%, acquired 80% of the outstanding shares of eMDT Inc. and acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of FDD, respectively. If we are unable to operate Kopin Software Ltd., eMDT, FDD and NVIS profitably, our results of operations will be negatively affected. We perform periodic reviews to determine if these investments are impaired, but such reviews are difficult and rely on significant judgment about the company's technology, ability to obtain customers, and ability to become cash flow positive and profitable. We may take future impairment charges which will have an adverse impact of on our results of operations.. Additionally, we are a party to several joint ventures and investments where we may have some influence, but we do not control them. Accordingly, we have limited control over their governance, financial reporting and operations. As a result, we face certain operating, financial and other risks relating to these investments, including risks related to the financial strength of our joint venture partners, having differing objectives from our partners, compliance risks relating to actions of the joint venture or our partners and the risk that we will be unable to resolve disputes with the joint venture partner. As a result, these investments may not contribute to our earnings and cash flows. In addition, these joint ventures may be required to raise additional capital which may result in our ownership percentage being decreased.. Investors should not expect to receive dividends from us. We have not paid cash dividends in the past, however, in the future we may determine it is in the best interest of the stockholders to do so. Historically our earnings, if any, have been retained for the development of our businesses.. Our stock price may be volatile in the future. The trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in results of operations, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, general conditions in the wireless communications, semiconductor and display markets, changes in earnings estimates by analysts or other events or factors. In addition, the public stock markets recently have experienced extreme price and trading volatility. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock."
