[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our publicly traded securities. Our business is subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as competition, technological obsolescence, labor relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and international operations.. Risks Related to Our Business. Fluctuations in the price, quality and availability of our primary raw materials could reduce our profitability.. Our operations depend on an adequate supply of quality raw materials being available on a timely basis. The loss of a key source of supply or a delay in shipments could cause a significant increase in our operating expenses. For example, our operations are highly dependent on a relatively small number of freight transportation services. We are also dependent on specialized ocean-going transport vessels that we lease to deliver raw materials to our facilities and finished goods to our. 9. customers. Interruptions in such freight services could impair our ability to receive raw materials and ship finished products in a timely manner. We are also exposed to price and quality risks associated with raw material purchases. Such risks include the following:. <U+25FE>  The availability and cost of lumber are critical elements in our production of railroad crossties and pole products for our RUPS business. Historically, the supply and cost of hardwood for railroad crossties have been subject to availability and price pressures. We may not be able to obtain wood raw materials at economical prices in the future.. <U+25FE>  The availability of scrap copper is a critical element in our production of copper-based wood preservation chemicals for our PC business. Our purchase price for scrap copper is based upon spot prices in the copper market, which may be subject to sudden price changes. We may not be able to obtain scrap copper at prices that match underlying pricing commitments to our customers.. <U+25FE>  The primary raw material used by our CMC business is coal tar, a by-product of furnace coke production. Currently, our CMC business supplies our North American RUPS business with 100 percent of its creosote requirements. A shortage in the supply of domestic coal tar or a reduction in the quality of coal tar could require us to increase coal tar or creosote imports to meet future creosote demand. This could cause a significant increase in our operating expenses and we may be unable to pass some or all of these costs on to our customers.. <U+25FE>  In certain circumstances coal tar may also be used as an alternative to fuel. In the past, increases in energy prices have resulted in higher coal tar costs which we have attempted to pass through to our customers. If these increased costs cannot be passed through to our customers, it could result in margin reductions for our coal tar-based products.. <U+25FE>  Our price realizations and profit margins for phthalic anhydride have historically fluctuated with the price of orthoxylene and its relationship to our cost to produce naphthalene; however, during periods of excess supplies of phthalic anhydride, margins may be reduced despite high levels for orthoxylene prices.. <U+25FE>  Our price realizations and profit margins for phthalic anhydride, naphthalene and carbon black feedstock have historically fluctuated with the market price of crude oil, market prices for chemicals derived from crude oil, such as orthoxylene, or market indices derived from crude oil.. <U+25FE>  Our profit margins at one of our coal tar distillation facilities has fluctuated with the market price of needle coke.. If the costs of raw materials increase significantly and we are unable to offset the increased costs with higher selling prices, our profitability will decline.. We face risks related to our substantial indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2017, we had total outstanding debt of $688.7 million, and approximately $203.3 million of additional unused borrowing capacity under our Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility (the \"Revolving Credit Facility\"). Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk associated with our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the Senior Notes due 2025 (the \"2025 Notes\") and the Revolving Credit Facility as described in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences to us, including:. <U+25FE>  making it more difficult for us to make payments on our debt;. <U+25FE>  increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions;. <U+25FE>  requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities;. <U+25FE>  exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility are at variable rates;. <U+25FE>  restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. <U+25FE>  limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and. <U+25FE>  limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be less highly leveraged.. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our Revolving Credit Facility and the indenture governing the 2025 Notes. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.. 10. Koppers Holdings Inc.     2017 Annual Report. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business.. Our Revolving Credit Facility and the indenture governing the 2025 Notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to, among other things:. <U+25FE>  incur additional debt;. <U+25FE>  pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock;. <U+25FE>  issue stock of subsidiaries;. <U+25FE>  make certain investments;. <U+25FE>  create liens on our assets to secure debt;. <U+25FE>  enter into transactions with affiliates;. <U+25FE>  merge or consolidate with another company; and. <U+25FE>  sell or otherwise transfer assets.. In addition, under the Revolving Credit Facility, we are required to meet specified financial ratios in order to undertake certain actions, and we are required to maintain a specified minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a maximum senior secured leverage ratio. Our ability to meet those tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet them. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our Revolving Credit Facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our Revolving Credit Facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our Revolving Credit Facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all of our assets as collateral under our Revolving Credit Facility. If the lenders under our Revolving Credit Facility accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay our Revolving Credit Facility, as well as our unsecured indebtedness, including notes.. Conditions in the global economy and global capital markets may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In recent history, the U.S. and global economy and capital markets have experienced significant uncertainties and volatility. Our business and operating results can be significantly affected by global economic issues. Our customers may experience deterioration of their business during the adverse business cycles. They may experience cash flow shortages and may have difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, our customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may not be able to fulfill their payment obligations to us in a timely fashion. Our suppliers may be experiencing similar conditions which could impact their ability to supply us with raw materials and otherwise fulfill their obligations to us. If global economic conditions deteriorate significantly, there could be a material adverse effect to our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. In addition, we rely on our Revolving Credit Facility with a consortium of banks to provide us with liquidity to meet our working capital needs. Our ability to fund our liquidity needs and working capital requirements could be impacted in the event that disruptions in the credit markets result in the banks being unable to lend to us under our Revolving Credit Facility.. Global economic issues could prevent us from accurately forecasting demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition.. Adverse global economic issues, market instability and volatile commodity price fluctuations make it increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demands and sales prices, which could cause us to procure raw materials in excess of end-product demand. This could cause a material increase to our inventory carrying costs and, in the event of falling market prices for our end products, result in significant charges to write-down inventory to market prices.. Intellectual property rights are important to our business. If our patents are declared invalid or our trade secrets become known to our competitors, our ability to compete may be adversely affected.. Proprietary protection of our processes, apparatuses and other technology is important to our business, particularly in our PC business. Consequently, we may have to rely on judicial enforcement of our patents and other proprietary rights, which is generally a time consuming and expensive process. While a presumption of validity exists with respect to patents issued to us in the U.S., there can be no assurance that any of our patents will not be challenged, invalidated,. 11. circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Furthermore, if any pending patent application filed by us does not result in an issued patent, or if patents are issued to us, but such patents do not provide meaningful protection of our intellectual property, or if patents issued to us expire, then our ability to compete may be adversely affected. Additionally, our competitors or other third parties may obtain patents that restrict or preclude our ability to lawfully produce or sell our products in a competitive manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow and financial condition. The growth of our business also depends on our ability to develop new intellectual property rights, including patents, and the successful implementation of innovation initiatives. There can be no assurance that our efforts to do so will be successful and the failure to do so could negatively impact our results of operations.. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position, particularly in our PC business. While it is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, these confidentiality agreements may be breached or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know-how, and adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and know-how. In addition, others could obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow and financial condition.. We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long-lived assets.. At December 31, 2017, the net carrying value of long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) totaled $645.8 million. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. In the past three years, we have recognized a total of $21.9 million of fixed asset impairment charges at various CMC coal tar distillation facilities and RUPS wood treating plants. In 2015 we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $67.2 million related to our CMC business segment. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in impairments to goodwill and other long-lived assets. Future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. Impairment charges would also reduce our shareholders' equity and could affect compliance with the covenants in our debt agreements.. We may not be able to compete successfully in any or all of the industry segments in which we operate.. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and this competition could harm our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. If we are unable to respond successfully to changing competitive conditions, the demand for our products could be affected. We believe that the most significant competitive factor for our products is selling price. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and larger capitalization than we do and, as a result, they may be better positioned to compete in a declining market.. Demand for our products is cyclical and we may experience prolonged depressed market conditions for our products.. Our products are sold primarily into markets which historically have been cyclical, such as wood preservation, aluminum and specialty chemicals.. <U+25FE>  The principal use of our wood preservation chemicals is in the manufacture of treated lumber, which is used mainly for residential applications, such as wood decking, and also industrial applications, such as the treating of railroad crossties and utility poles. Therefore, a decline in remodeling and construction could reduce demand for wood preservation chemicals for residential applications and a decline in the capital spending requirements for railroads and utility companies could reduce demand for wood preservation chemicals for industrial applications.. <U+25FE>  The principal consumers of our carbon pitch are primary aluminum smelters. Although the global aluminum industry has experienced growth on a long-term basis, the aluminum industry has experienced a shift in primary aluminum production from the mature geographies where we have historically enjoyed high market shares into emerging economies. For example, at the beginning of 2015 there were a total of nine smelters and anode plants operating in the United States. By the end of 2017, only six remained operating and four of these were operating at reduced capacity.. <U+25FE>  The principal use of our phthalic anhydride is in the manufacture of plasticizers and flexible vinyl, which are used mainly in the housing and automobile industries. Therefore, a decline in remodeling and construction or global automobile production could reduce the demand for phthalic anhydride.. 12. Koppers Holdings Inc.     2017 Annual Report. We are dependent on major customers for a significant portion of our net sales, and the loss of one or more of our major customers could result in a significant reduction in our profitability as a whole or the profitability of a particular product.. Although no one customer accounts for more than six percent of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 40 percent of our net sales. The loss of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow and financial condition.. Our products may be rendered obsolete or less attractive by changes in regulatory, legislative or industry requirements.. Changes in regulatory, legislative or industry requirements may render certain of our products obsolete or less attractive. Our ability to anticipate changes in these requirements, especially changes in regulatory standards, will be a significant factor in our ability to remain competitive. We may not be able to comply in the future with new regulatory, legislative and/or industrial standards that may be necessary for us to remain competitive and certain of our products may, as a result, become obsolete or less attractive to our customers.. The development of new technologies or changes in our customers' products could reduce the demand for our products.. Our products are used for a variety of applications by our customers. Changes in our customers' products or processes may enable our customers to reduce consumption of the products we produce or make our products unnecessary. Customers may also find alternative materials or processes that no longer require our products.. As a producer of wood preservatives, we may incur additional costs under our warranties or otherwise for claims related to treated-wood products.. We provide limited warranties on certain treated-wood products. These limited warranties cover treated-wood products that are produced by certain of our customers who use wood preservatives supplied by us. The limited warranties generally provide for replacement of properly treated-wood (treated-wood only) or refund of the purchase price for the treated-wood product that prematurely fails due to fungal decay or termite attack.  From time to time, we (or our customers) receive claims under these warranties or other claims relating to alleged failures of treated-wood products. Our profitability could be adversely affected if the amount of warranty claims against us or our customers significantly increase.. Hazards associated with chemical manufacturing may cause suspensions or interruptions of our operations.. Due to the nature of our business, we are exposed to the hazards associated with chemical manufacturing and the related use, storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes in our manufacturing facilities and our distribution centers, such as fires, explosions and accidents that could lead to a suspension or interruption of operations. Any disruption could reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or of our company as a whole. Other hazards include the following:. <U+25FE>  piping and storage tank leaks and ruptures;. <U+25FE>  mechanical failure;. <U+25FE>  exposure to hazardous substances; and. <U+25FE>  chemical spills and other discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous wastes, substances or gases.. These hazards, among others, may cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to property and contamination of the environment, which could lead to government fines or work stoppage injunctions, cleanup costs and lawsuits by injured persons. While we are unable to predict the outcome of such matters, if determined adversely to us, we may not have adequate insurance to cover related costs or liabilities and, if not, we may not have sufficient cash flow to pay for such costs or liabilities. Such outcomes could harm our customer goodwill and reduce our profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flow and results from operations.. 13. We are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations and may incur significant costs as a result of continued compliance with, violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations.. Like other companies involved in environmentally sensitive businesses, our operations and properties are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those concerning the following, among other things:. <U+25FE>  the treatment, storage and disposal of wastes;. <U+25FE>  the investigation and remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater;. <U+25FE>  the discharge of effluents into waterways;. <U+25FE>  the emission of substances into the air;. <U+25FE>  the marketing, sale, use and registration of our chemical products, such as creosote and MicroPro ®;. <U+25FE>  the European Union's regulation under the Registration Evaluation Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals, which requires manufacturers or importers of substances manufactured or imported into the European Union in quantities of one tonne per year or more to register with a central European Chemicals Agency;. <U+25FE>  the European Union's regulation under the Biocidal Products Regulation, which requires a biocidal product to be authorized by the European Chemicals Agency before it can be marketed or used in the European Union; and. <U+25FE>  other matters relating to environmental protection and various health and safety matters.. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations and as a result of remedial obligations. We could incur significant costs, including cleanup costs, fines, civil and criminal sanctions and claims by third parties for property damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. We accrue for environmental liabilities when a determination can be made that they are probable and reasonably estimable. Total environmental reserves at December 31, 2017 were $13.9 million, which include provisions primarily for environmental remediation. In addition, we incur significant annual operating expenses related to environmental matters and significant capital expenditures related to environmental control facilities. Capital expenditures related to environmental control facilities in 2018 are expected to total approximately $10.9 million, funded by operations. Contamination has been identified and is being investigated and remediated at many of our sites by us or other parties. We believe that we will have continuing significant expenditures associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations and, to the extent not covered by insurance or available recoveries under third-party indemnification arrangements, for present and future remediation efforts at plant sites and third-party waste sites and other liabilities associated with environmental matters. There can be no assurance that these expenditures will not exceed current estimates and will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations.. Actual costs and liabilities to us may exceed forecasted amounts. Moreover, currently unknown environmental issues, such as the discovery of additional contamination or the imposition of additional sampling or cleanup obligations with respect to our sites or third-party sites, may result in significant additional costs, and potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with future changes to environmental laws and regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof. We also are involved in various litigation and proceedings relating to environmental matters and toxic tort claims.. Changes in applicable tax regulations and resolutions of tax disputes could negatively affect our financial results.. We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The changes included in the Tax Act are broad and complex. As rule making bodies and new legislation are enacted to interpret the Tax Act, these changes may adjust the estimates provided in this report. The changes may possibly be material, due to, among other things, the Treasury Department's promulgation of regulations and guidance that interpret the Tax Act, corrective technical legislative amendments that may change the Tax Act, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates the company has utilized to calculate the transition impacts, including impacts from changes to current year earnings estimates and foreign exchange rates of foreign subsidiaries.. In addition, it is uncertain how each country where we do business may react to the Tax Act. As these and other tax laws and related regulations change, our financial results could be materially impacted. Given the unpredictability of these possible changes, it is difficult to assess whether the overall effect of these potential tax changes would be positive or negative for our earnings and cash flow, but such changes could adversely impact our financial results.. We are also subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") and other tax authorities, including state revenue agencies and foreign governments. While we regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable. 14. Koppers Holdings Inc.     2017 Annual Report. outcomes resulting from examinations by the IRS and other tax authorities to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that the actual outcome resulting from these examinations will not materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Future climate change regulation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our products.. Although the United States has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, a number of federal laws related to \"greenhouse gas,\" or \"GHG,\" emissions have been considered by Congress. Additionally, various federal, state and regional regulations and initiatives have been enacted or are being considered.. Member States of the European Union each have an overall cap on emissions which are approved by the European Commission and implement the European Union Emissions Trading Directive as a commitment to the Kyoto Protocol. Under this Directive, organizations apply to the Member State for an allowance of GHG emissions. These allowances are tradable so as to enable companies that manage to reduce their GHG emissions to sell their excess allowances to companies that are not reaching their emissions objectives. Failure to purchase sufficient allowances will require the purchase of allowances at a current market price.. Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of GHGs could cause an increase to our raw material costs, could require us to incur increased operating costs and could have an adverse effect on demand for our products.. Beazer East and Beazer Limited may not continue to meet their obligations to indemnify us.. Under the terms of the asset purchase agreement between us and Koppers Company, Inc. (now known as Beazer East, Inc.) upon the formation of Koppers Inc. in 1988, subject to certain limitations, Beazer East and Beazer Limited assumed the liability for and indemnified us against, among other things, certain clean-up liabilities for contamination occurring prior to the purchase date at sites acquired from Beazer East and certain third-party claims arising from such contamination (the \"Indemnity\"). Beazer East and Beazer Limited (which are indirect subsidiaries of Heidelberg Cement AG) may not continue to meet their obligations. Beazer East could in the future choose to challenge its obligations under the Indemnity or our satisfaction of the conditions to indemnification imposed on us thereunder. The government and other third parties may have the right under applicable environmental laws to seek relief directly from us for any and all such costs and liabilities. In July 2004, we entered into an agreement with Beazer East to amend the December 29, 1988 asset purchase agreement to provide, among other things, for the continued tender of pre-closing environmental liabilities to Beazer East under the Indemnity through July 2019. As consideration for the agreement, we, among other things, paid Beazer East $7.0 million and agreed to share toxic tort litigation defense costs arising from sites acquired from Beazer East. Qualified expenditures under the Indemnity are not subject to a monetary limit.. The Indemnity provides for the resolution of issues between Koppers Inc. and Beazer East by an arbitrator on an expedited basis upon the request of either party. The arbitrator could be asked, among other things, to make a determination regarding the allocation of environmental responsibilities between Koppers Inc. and Beazer East. Arbitration decisions under the Indemnity are final and binding on the parties. Periodically, issues have arisen between Koppers Inc. and Beazer East and/or other indemnitors that have been resolved without arbitration. From time to time, Koppers Inc. and Beazer East have engaged in discussions that involve, among other things, the allocation of environmental costs related to certain operating and closed facilities.. Without reimbursement under the Indemnity, the obligation to pay the costs and assume the liabilities relating to these matters would have a significant impact on our net income. Furthermore, without reimbursement, we could be required to record a contingent liability on our balance sheet with respect to environmental matters covered by the Indemnity, which could result in our having significant negative net worth. Finally, the Indemnity does not afford us indemnification against environmental costs and liabilities attributable to acts or omissions occurring after the closing of the acquisition of assets from Beazer East under the asset purchase agreement, nor is the Indemnity applicable to liabilities arising in connection with other acquisitions by us after that closing.. The insurance that we maintain may not fully cover all potential exposures.. We maintain property, casualty, general liability, workers' compensation, pollution legal liability and other insurance, but such insurance may not cover all risks associated with the hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and maximum limits. We may incur losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of our insurance policies, including liabilities for environmental compliance and remediation. In addition, from time to time, various types of insurance for companies in our industry have not been available on commercially acceptable terms or, in some cases, have not been available at all. In the future, we may not be able to obtain coverage at current levels, and our premiums may increase significantly on coverage that we maintain.. 15. Adverse weather conditions may reduce our operating results.. Our quarterly operating results fluctuate due to a variety of factors that are outside our control, including inclement weather conditions, which in the past have caused a decline in our operating results. For example, adverse weather conditions have at times negatively impacted our supply chain as wet conditions impacted logging operations, reducing our ability to procure crossties. In addition, adverse weather conditions have had a negative impact on our customers in our pavement sealer and wood preservation businesses, resulting in a negative impact on our sales of these products. Moreover, demand for many of our products declines during periods of inclement weather.. We are subject to risks inherent in foreign operations, including additional legal regulation, changes in social, political and economic conditions.. We have operations in the United States, Australia, Denmark, the United Kingdom, New Zealand, China and Canada, among others, and sell our products in many foreign countries. For the year ended December 31, 2017, net sales from products sold by our foreign subsidiaries accounted for approximately 40 percent of our total net sales.. Doing business on a global basis requires us to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions. These regulations place restrictions on our operations, trade practices and partners and investment decisions. In particular, our international operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and economic sanction programs administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control. Violations of these laws and regulations may result in civil or criminal penalties, including fines.. In addition, as a global business, we are also exposed to market risks relating to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Our international revenues could be reduced by currency fluctuations or devaluations. Changes in currency exchange rates could lower our reported revenues and could require us to reduce our prices to remain competitive in foreign markets, which could also reduce our profitability. We have not historically hedged our financial statement exposure and, as a result, we could incur unanticipated losses. We are also subject to potentially increasing transportation and shipping costs associated with international operations. Furthermore, we are also exposed to risks associated with changes in the laws and policies governing foreign investments in countries where we have operations as well as, to a lesser extent, changes in U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment.. Our strategy to selectively pursue complementary acquisitions may present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs.. Our business strategy includes the potential acquisition of businesses and entering into joint ventures and other business combinations that we expect would complement and expand our existing products and the markets where we sell our products. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities or complete any particular acquisition, combination, joint venture or other transaction on acceptable terms. We cannot predict the timing and success of our efforts to acquire any particular business. Also, efforts to acquire other businesses or the implementation of other elements of this business strategy may divert managerial resources away from our business operations. In addition, our ability to engage in strategic acquisitions may depend on our ability to raise substantial capital and we may not be able to raise the funds necessary to implement our acquisition strategy on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. Our failure to identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities may restrict our ability to grow our business. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate businesses that we acquire in the future or have recently acquired, which could lead to increased operating costs, a failure to realize anticipated operating synergies, or both.. Litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend, and due to the nature of our business and products, we may be liable for damages arising out of our acts or omissions, which may have a material adverse effect on us.. We are a defendant in a significant number of lawsuits in which the plaintiffs claim they have suffered a variety of illnesses (including cancer) and/or property damage as a result of exposure to coal tar pitch, benzene, wood treatment chemicals and other chemicals. In addition, we are regularly subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as workers' compensation claims, governmental investigations, employment disputes, and customer and supplier disputes arising out of the conduct of our business. We also are involved in various litigation and proceedings relating to environmental matters. Litigation could result in substantial costs and may divert management's attention and resources away from the day-to-day operation of our business.. We are indemnified for certain product liability exposures under the Indemnity with Beazer East related to products sold prior to the closing of the acquisition of assets from Beazer East. Beazer East and Beazer Limited may not continue to meet their indemnification obligations. In addition, Beazer East could choose to challenge its indemnification obligations or our satisfaction of the conditions to indemnification imposed on us thereunder. If for any reason (including disputed coverage or financial incapability) one or more of such parties fail to perform their obligations and we are held liable for or otherwise required to pay all or part of such liabilities without reimbursement, the imposition of such liabilities on us could. 16. Koppers Holdings Inc.     2017 Annual Report. have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Furthermore, we could be required to record a contingent liability on our balance sheet with respect to such matters, which could result in us having significant negative net worth.. Labor disputes could disrupt our operations and divert the attention of our management and may cause a decline in our production and a reduction in our profitability.. Many of our employees are represented by a number of different labor unions and are covered under numerous labor agreements. Typically, a number of our labor agreements are scheduled to expire each year. We may not be able to reach new agreements without union action or on terms satisfactory to us. Any future labor disputes with any such unions could result in strikes or other labor protests, which could disrupt our operations and divert the attention of our management from operating our business. If we were to experience a strike or work stoppage, it may be difficult for us to find a sufficient number of employees with the necessary skills to replace these employees. Any such labor disputes could cause a decline in our production and a reduction in our profitability.. Our post-retirement obligations are currently underfunded. We may be required to make significant cash payments to our pension and other post-retirement plans, which will reduce the cash available for our business.. As of December 31, 2017, our benefit obligation under our defined benefit pension plans exceeded the fair value of plan assets by $30.3 million. Our pension asset funding to total pension obligation ratio was 76 percent as of December 31, 2017. The underfunding was caused, in large part, by fluctuations in the financial markets that have caused the value of the assets in our defined benefit pension plans to be significantly lower than anticipated and by fluctuations in interest rates which increased the discounted pension liabilities. In addition, our obligations for other post-retirement benefit obligations are unfunded and total $11.1 million at December 31, 2017.. During the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we contributed $12.1 million and $5.3 million, respectively, to our post-retirement benefit plans. Management expects that any future obligations under our post-retirement benefit plans that are not currently funded will be funded from our future cash flow from operations. If our contributions to our post-retirement benefit plans are insufficient to fund the post-retirement benefit plans adequately to cover our future obligations, the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet our expectations or other actuarial assumptions or mandatory funding laws are modified, our contributions to our post-retirement benefit plans could be materially higher than we expect, thus reducing the cash available for our business.. We may incur significant charges in the event we close all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility.. We periodically assess our manufacturing operations in order to manufacture and distribute our products in the most efficient manner. Based on our assessments, we may make capital improvements to modernize certain units, move manufacturing or distribution capabilities from one plant or facility to another plant or facility, discontinue manufacturing or distributing certain products or close all or part of a manufacturing plant or facility, any of which could cause us to incur significant charges. The actual costs to close a manufacturing facility may exceed our original cost estimate and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flow from operations and results from operations.. We depend on our senior management team and other key employees and the loss of these employees could adversely affect our business.. Our success is dependent on the management, experience and leadership skills of our senior management team and key employees. The loss of any of these individuals or an inability to attract, retain and maintain additional personnel with similar industry experience could prevent us from implementing our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior management and key personnel or to attract additional qualified personnel when needed. Senior management or key personnel may retire from time to time, and our employment agreements with these individuals may expire from time to time.. We may be subject to information technology systems failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security.. We depend on integrated information systems to conduct our business. Information technology systems failures, including risks associated with upgrading our systems or in successfully integrating information technology and other systems in connection with the integration of businesses we acquire, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt our operations by impeding our processing of transactions, our ability to protect customer or company information and our financial reporting. Our computer systems, including our back-up systems, could be damaged or interrupted by power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, tornadoes and hurricanes, and/or errors by our employees. Although we have taken steps to. 17. address these concerns, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price may be extremely volatile.. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These types of broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock.. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include the following:. <U+25FE>  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects;. <U+25FE>  the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, (the \"SEC\");. <U+25FE>  strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. <U+25FE>  new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;. <U+25FE>  changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. <U+25FE>  adverse conditions in the financial markets or general economic conditions, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism and responses to such events;. <U+25FE>  sales of common stock by us, members of our management team or a significant shareholder;. <U+25FE>  changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock or other comparable companies; and. <U+25FE>  changes in our current dividend policy.. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our company will continue to support an active trading market for our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (the \"NYSE\") or otherwise or how liquid that market will continue to be. If there does not continue to be an active trading market for our common stock, you may have difficulty selling any of our common stock that you buy.. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of a substantial amount of our common stock may depress the price of the shares of our common stock.. Future sales, or the perception or the availability for sale in the public market, of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate.. We may issue shares of our common stock, or other securities, from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. We may also issue shares of our common stock, or other securities, in connection with employee stock compensation programs, employee stock purchase programs and board of directors' compensation. In addition, we may issue shares of our common stock or other securities in public or private offerings as part of our efforts to raise additional capital. In the event any such acquisition, investment, issuance under stock compensation programs or offering is significant, the number of shares of our common stock or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be significant. We may also grant registration rights covering those shares or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. Any additional capital raised through the sale of our equity securities may dilute your percentage ownership in us.. We have suspended our dividend since February 2015.. We are not required to pay dividends, and our shareholders are not guaranteed, and do not have contractual rights, to receive dividends. Our board of directors may decide at any time, in its discretion, to change or revoke our dividend policy. In February 2015 our board of directors made the decision to suspend our dividend. We currently intend to use the annual cash savings from such dividend suspension to preserve financial flexibility while funding our strategic growth initiatives and debt repayments. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board of directors deems relevant.. The ability of Koppers Inc. and its subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us will depend on our operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the covenants in Koppers Inc.'s Revolving Credit Facility. Our ability to pay dividends is also limited by the indenture governing the 2025 Notes as well as Pennsylvania law and may in the future be limited by the covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur. If a dividend is paid in violation of Pennsylvania law, each director approving the dividend could be liable to the corporation if. 18. Koppers Holdings Inc.     2017 Annual Report. the director did not act with such care as a person of ordinary prudence would use under similar circumstances. Directors are entitled to rely in good faith on information provided by employees of the corporation and experts retained by the corporation. Directors who are held liable would be entitled to contribution from any shareholders who received an unlawful dividend knowing it to be unlawful. Furthermore, we are a holding company with no operations, and unless we receive dividends, distributions, advances, transfers of funds or other payments from our subsidiaries, we will be unable to pay dividends on our common stock.. Provisions of our charter documents may inhibit a takeover, which could negatively affect our stock price.. Provisions of our charter documents and the Business Corporation Law of Pennsylvania, the state in which we are incorporated, could discourage potential acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation (our \"Articles of Incorporation\") and our Second Amended and Restated Bylaws (our \"Bylaws\") provide for various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our Articles of Incorporation authorize our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock without any vote or action by our shareholders. Our board of directors can therefore authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. The following additional provisions could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions:. <U+25FE>  Our shareholders will be able to remove directors only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in the election of directors. Vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by our board of directors.. <U+25FE>  Under Pennsylvania law, cumulative voting rights are available to the holders of our common stock if our Articles of Incorporation have not negated cumulative voting. Our Articles of Incorporation provide that our shareholders do not have the right to cumulative votes in the election of directors.. <U+25FE>  Our Articles of Incorporation do not permit shareholder action without a meeting by consent except for the unanimous consent of all holders of our common stock. The Articles of Incorporation also provide that special meetings of our shareholders may be called only by the board of directors or the chairman of the board of directors.. <U+25FE>  Our Bylaws provide that shareholders seeking to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of their proposal in writing to the corporate secretary.. These provisions may discourage acquisition proposals and may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock or may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer or proxy contest, which may negatively affect our stock price.. Risks Related to the 2025 Notes and Other Indebtedness. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, including the 2025 Notes, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the 2025 Notes.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the 2025 Notes. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our Revolving Credit Facility restricts our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.. 19. The covenants in Koppers Inc.'s Revolving Credit Facility impose restrictions that may limit our ability to take certain actions. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness.. Koppers Inc.'s Revolving Credit Facility contains minimum fixed charge coverage and maximum senior secured leverage ratios. Additionally, the Revolving Credit Facility includes covenants limiting liens, mergers, asset sales, dividends and the incurrence of debt. Our ability to borrow under Koppers Inc.'s Revolving Credit Facility will depend upon satisfaction of these covenants. Events beyond our control can affect our ability to meet those covenants.. If we are unable to meet the terms of our financial covenants, or if we breach any of these covenants, a default could occur. A default, if not waived, would entitle our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed immediately due and payable, which could also cause the acceleration of obligations under certain other agreements. In the event of acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness, there can be no assurance that we would be able to repay our debt or obtain new financing to refinance our debt. Even if new financing is made available to us, it may not be on terms acceptable to us.. Federal or state laws allow courts, under specific circumstances, to void debts, including guarantees, and could require holders of 2025 Notes to return payments received from guarantors.. The 2025 Notes are guaranteed by Koppers Holdings and the wholly-owned domestic restricted subsidiaries of Koppers Inc. If a bankruptcy proceeding or lawsuit were to be initiated, the 2025 Notes and the guarantees of the 2025 Notes could come under review for federal or state fraudulent transfer violations. Under federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, obligations under the 2025 Notes or a guarantee of the 2025 Notes could be voided, or claims in respect of the 2025 Notes or a guarantee of the 2025 Notes could be subordinated to all other debts of the debtor or that guarantor if, among other things, the debtor or the guarantor, at the time it incurred the debt evidenced by such 2025 Notes or guarantee:. <U+25FE>  received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the incurrence of such debt or guarantee; and. <U+25FE>  one of the following applies:. o  it was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such incurrence;. o  it was engaged in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or. o  it intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature.. In addition, any payment by the debtor or guarantor under the 2025 Notes or guarantee of the 2025 Notes could be voided and required to be returned to the debtor or guarantor, as the case may be, or deposited in a fund for the benefit of the creditors of the debtor or guarantor.. The measure of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws will vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred. Generally, however, a debtor or a guarantor would be considered insolvent if:. <U+25FE>  the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of all its assets;. <U+25FE>  the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or. <U+25FE>  it could not pay its debts as they become due.. We cannot be sure as to the standards that a court would use to determine whether or not a guarantor was solvent at the relevant time, or, regardless of the standard that the court uses, that the issuance of the guarantees of the 2025 Notes would not be voided or subordinated to the guarantor's other debt. If a guarantee is legally challenged, it could also be subject to the claim that, because it was incurred for our benefit, and only indirectly for the benefit of the guarantor, the obligations of the guarantor were incurred for less than fair consideration. A court could thus void the obligations under a guarantee or subordinate a guarantee to a guarantor's other debt or take other action detrimental to holders of the 2025 Notes."
