[1] "Item 1A – Risk Factors. SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995. This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Company’s 2018 Annual Report to Stockholders, including the President’s letter, contain forward-looking statements about the Company’s business, competition, sales, gross margins, capital expenditures, foreign operations, plans for reorganization, interest rate sensitivity, debt service, liquidity and capital resources, and other operating and capital requirements. In addition, forward-looking statements may be included in future Company documents and in oral statements by Company representatives to security analysts and investors. The Company is subject to risks that could cause actual events to vary materially from such forward-looking statements, including the following risk factors:. Economic and world events could affect our operating results.. The Company’s results of operations may be materially affected by the conditions in the global economy. These include both world - wide and regional economic conditions and geo-political events. These conditions may affect financial markets, consumer and customer confidence. The Company can provide no assurance that current economic trends will or will not continue.. Technological innovation by competitors could adversely affect financial results.. Although the Company’s strategy includes investment in research and development of new and innovative products to meet technology advances, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in competing against new technologies developed by competitors.. International operations and our financial results in those markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political, currency exchange and other economic risks.. During 2018, revenue from sales outside of the United States was $97.1 million, representing approximately 45% of total net sales. In addition, a significant amount of our manufacturing and production operations are located, or our products are sourced from, outside the United States. As a result, our business is subject to risks associated with international operations. These risks include the burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations, unexpected changes in tariffs, taxes or regulatory requirements, and political unrest and corruption. Regulatory changes could occur in the countries in which we sell, produce or source our products or significantly increase the cost of operating in or obtaining materials originating from certain countries. Restrictions imposed by such changes can have a particular impact on our business when, after we have moved our operations to a particular location, new unfavorable regulations are enacted in that area or favorable regulations currently in effect are changed.. Countries in which our products are manufactured or sold may from time to time impose additional new regulations, or modify existing regulations, including:. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in duties, taxes, tariffs and other charges on imports;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimitations on the quantity of goods which may be imported into the United States from a particular country;. 6. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequirements as to where products and/or inputs are manufactured or sourced;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcreation of export licensing requirements, imposition of restrictions on export quantities or specification of minimum export pricing and/or export prices or duties;. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimitations on foreign owned businesses; or. • \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgovernment actions to cancel contracts, re-denominate the official currency, renounce or default on obligations, renegotiate terms unilaterally or expropriate assets.. In addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations. All of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations.. We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, in addition to the anti-corruption laws of the foreign countries in which we operate. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation could result in sanctions or other penalties and have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results.. Economic weakness in the industrial manufacturing sector could adversely affect the Company’s financial results.. The market for most of the Company’s products is subject to economic conditions affecting the industrial manufacturing sector, including the level of capital spending by industrial companies and the general movement of manufacturing to low cost foreign countries where the Company does not have a substantial market presence. Accordingly, economic weakness in the industrial manufacturing sector may, and in some cases has, resulted in decreased demand for certain of the Company’s products, which adversely affects sales and performance. Economic weakness in the consumer market will also adversely impact the Company’s performance. In the event that demand for any of the Company’s products declines significantly, the Company could be required to recognize certain costs as well as asset impairment charges on long-lived assets related to those products.. Volatility in the price of energy and raw materials could negatively affect our margins.. Steel is the principal raw material used in the manufacture of the Company’s products. The price of steel has historically fluctuated on a cyclical basis and has often depended on a variety of factors over which the Company has no control. The cost of producing the Company’s products is also sensitive to the price of energy. The selling prices of the Company’s products have not always increased in response to raw material, energy or other cost increases, and the Company is unable to determine to what extent, if any, it will be able to pass future cost increases through to its customers. The Company’s inability to pass increased costs through to its customers could materially and adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations.. The inability to meet expected investment returns and changes to interest rates could have a negative impact on Pension plan assets and liabilities.. Currently, the Company’s U.S. defined benefit pension plan is underfunded primarily due to lower discount rates which increase the Company’s liability. The Company made contributions of $3.3 million in fiscal 2018, and $4.0 million in fiscal 2017 and will be required to make additional contributions in fiscal 2019 of $4.5 million. The Company could be required to provide more funding to the domestic plan in the future.  The Company froze the domestic defined benefit pension plan as of December 31, 2016. As a result of this decision, no future benefits will accrue to employees under that plan. The Company’s UK plan, which is also underfunded, required Company contributions of $1.0 million and $1.0 million during fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively. The Company will be required to make a $1.0 million contribution to its UK pension plan in fiscal 2019.. Businesses that we may acquire may fail to perform to expectations.. Acquisitions involve special risks, including the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies, difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, disruption of the Company’s existing business, dissipation of the Company’s limited management resources, and impairment of relationships with employees and customers of the acquired business as a result of changes in ownership and management. While the Company believes that strategic acquisitions can improve its competitiveness and profitability, the failure to successfully integrate and realize the expected benefits of such acquisitions could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results.. We are subject to certain risks as a result of our financial borrowings. Under the Company’s credit facility with TD Bank, N.A., the Company is required to comply with certain financial covenants, including: 1) funded debt to EBITDA, excluding non-cash and retirement benefit expenses (“maximum leverage”), cannot exceed 2.25 to 1; 2) annual capital expenditures cannot exceed $15.0 million; 3) maintain a Debt Service Coverage Rate of a minimum of 1.25 to 1 and 4) maintain consolidated cash plus liquid investments of not less than $10.0 million at any time. The Company believes that it will be able to service its debt and comply with the financial covenants in future periods; however, it cannot be assured of results of operations or future credit and financial markets conditions. An event of default under the credit facility, if not waived, could prevent additional borrowing and could result in the acceleration of the Company’s debt. As of June 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all the covenants. The credit facility expires in April of 2021.. 7. Any inadequacy, interruption, integration failure or security failure with respect to our information technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business.. The efficient operation of the Company's business is dependent on its information systems, including its ability to operate them effectively and to successfully implement new technologies, systems, controls and adequate disaster recovery systems.  In addition, the Company must protect the confidentiality of data of its business, employees, customers and other third parties. The failure of the Company's information systems to perform as designed or its failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt the Company's business or subject it to liability and thereby harm its profitability. The Company continues to enhance the applications contained in the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system as well as improvements to other operating systems.. Failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance.. Our business is subject to federal, state, local and international laws, rules and regulations, such as state and local wage and hour laws, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the False Claims Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”), securities laws, import and export laws (including customs regulations) and many others. The complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are both increasing due to changes in legal and regulatory requirements, increased enforcement and our ongoing expansion into new markets and new channels. In addition, as a result of operating in multiple countries, we must comply with multiple foreign laws and regulations that may differ substantially from country to country and may conflict with corresponding U.S. laws and regulations. We may also be subject to investigations or audits by governmental authorities and regulatory agencies, which can occur in the ordinary course of business or which can result from increased scrutiny from a particular agency towards an industry, country or practice. If we fail to comply with laws, rules and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, we may be subject to government enforcement action, class action litigation or other litigation, damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties, and increased cost of regulatory compliance, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance.. Our tax rate is dependent upon a number of factors, a change in any of which could impact our future tax rates and net income.. Our future tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including tax changes in the U.S. and other countries; other changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; changes in the estimated realization of our net deferred tax assets; the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. income and non-U.S. withholding taxes; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses that are not deductible for tax purposes, including impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. Losses for which no tax benefits can be recorded could materially impact our tax rate and its volatility from one quarter to another. Any significant change in our jurisdictional earnings mix or in the tax laws in those jurisdictions could impact our future tax rates and net income in those periods."                                                      
