[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating our company and our common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Business. If we fail to offer merchandise and services that customers want to purchase, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our products and services must satisfy the desires of customers, whose preferences change over time. In order to be successful, we must identify, obtain supplies of, and offer customers attractive, innovative and high-quality merchandise on a continuous and timely basis. Failure to effectively gauge the direction of customer preferences, or convey a compelling brand image or price/value equation to customers may result in lower sales and resultant lower gross profit margins. This could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Customer preference for our branded merchandise could change, which may adversely affect our profitability.. Sales of branded merchandise account for substantially all of our total revenues and the Lands' End brand, in particular, is a critical differentiating factor for our business. Our inability to develop products that resonate with our existing customers and attract new customers, our inability to maintain our strict quality standards or to develop, produce and deliver products in a timely manner, or any unfavorable publicity with respect to the foregoing or otherwise could negatively impact the image of our brand with our customers and could result in diminished loyalty to our brand. As customer tastes change, our failure to anticipate, identify and react in a timely manner to emerging fashion trends and appropriately supply our stores, catalogs and websites with attractive high-quality products that maintain or enhance the appeal of our brand could have an adverse effect on our sales, operating margins and results of operations.. The success of our Direct segment, depends on customers' use of our digital platform, including our e-commerce websites, and response to direct mail catalogs and digital marketing; if our overall marketing strategies, including our maintenance of a robust customer list, is not successful, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The success of our Direct segment, which accounted for approximately 88% of our revenues in Fiscal 2017, depends on customers' use of our e-commerce websites and their response to our direct mail catalogs and digital marketing.. The level of customer traffic and volume of customer purchases on our e-commerce websites is substantially dependent on our ability to provide attractive and accessible websites, a high-quality customer experience and reliable delivery of our merchandise. Although the success of our e-commerce websites also has historically been dependent on the performance of our direct mail catalogs, our strategy includes initiatives that are intended to improve marketing productivity and optimize catalog productivity. If we are unable to maintain and increase customers' use of our e-commerce websites and the volume of goods they purchase, including, as a result of changes to the level and types of marketing or amount of spend allocated to each type of marketing, or through our failure to otherwise successfully promote and maintain our e-commerce websites and their associated services, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Customer response to our catalogs and digital marketing is substantially dependent on merchandise assortment, merchandise availability and creative presentation, as well as the selection of customers to whom our catalogs are sent and to whom our digital marketing is directed, changes in mailing strategies and the size of our mailings. Our maintenance of a robust customer list, which we believe includes desirable demographic characteristics for the products we offer, has also been a key component of our overall strategy. If the performance of our catalogs, emails and e-commerce websites decline, or if our overall marketing strategy is not successful, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. 12. Table of Contents. We depend on information technology and a failure of information technology systems, including with respect to our e-commerce operations, or an inability to effectively upgrade or adapt our systems could adversely affect our business.. We rely on sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business, including the e-commerce websites that drive our direct-to-consumer, Outfitters by Lands' End, and international sales channels and in-store/point-of-sale systems, inventory management, warehouse management and human resources, some of which are based on end-of-life or legacy technology, operate with minimal or no vendor support and are otherwise difficult to maintain. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees or vendors. Operating legacy systems subjects us to inherent costs and risks associated with maintaining, upgrading and replacing these systems and recruiting and retaining sufficiently skilled personnel to maintain and operate the systems, demands on management time, and other risks and costs. Our e-commerce websites are subject to numerous risks associated with selling merchandise that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third-party computer hardware and software providers, system failures and the need to invest in additional and updated computer platforms.. Our information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to malicious intrusion, targeted or random attack or breakdown. Although we have invested in the protection of our data and information technology and also monitor our systems on an ongoing basis, there can be no assurance that these efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our information technology systems that could adversely affect our business.. Sears Holdings point of sale and supply chain management information technology systems are leveraged in support of our Lands' End Shops at Sears. There can be no assurance that Sears Holdings will maintain and protect these information technology systems in such a way that would prevent breakdowns or breaches in such systems, which could adversely affect our business.. Additionally, our success depends, in part, on our ability to identify, develop, acquire or license leading technologies useful in our business, enhance our existing services, develop new services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our existing and prospective customers, and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development and operation of our e-commerce websites and other proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to effectively use new technologies or adapt our e-commerce websites, proprietary technologies and transaction-processing systems to meet customer requirements or emerging industry standards. If we are unable to accurately project the need for such system expansion or upgrade or adapt our systems in a cost-effective and timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, whether for technical, legal, financial or other reasons, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. 13. Table of Contents. Our implementation of an ERP software solution and other information technology systems could result in significant disruptions to our operations.. We have implemented the financial suites as a foundation to our multi-year ERP implementation and other complementary information technology systems that will be upgraded over the next several years. Implementation of these solutions and systems is highly dependent on coordination of numerous software and system providers and internal business teams. The interdependence of these solutions and systems is a significant risk to the successful completion of the initiatives and the failure of any one system could have a material adverse effect on the implementation of our overall information technology infrastructure. We may experience difficulties as we transition to these new or upgraded systems and processes, including loss or corruption of data, delayed shipments, decreases in productivity as our personnel and third party providers implement and become familiar with new systems, increased costs and lost revenues. In addition, transitioning to these new systems requires significant capital investments and personnel resources. Difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or significant system failures could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Implementation of this new information technology infrastructure has a significant impact on our business processes and information systems across a significant portion of our operations. As a result, we will be undergoing significant changes in our operational processes and internal controls as our implementation progresses, which in turn require significant change management, including recruiting and training of qualified personnel. If we are unable to successfully manage these changes as we implement these systems, including harmonizing our systems, data, processes and reporting analytics, our ability to conduct, manage and control routine business functions could be negatively affected and significant disruptions to our business could occur. In addition, we could incur material unanticipated expenses, including additional costs of implementation or costs of conducting business. These risks could result in significant business disruptions or divert management's attention from key strategic initiatives and have a material adverse effect on our capital resources, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. If we do not maintain the security of customer, employee or company information, we could experience damage to our reputation, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation.. Any significant compromise or breach of customer, employee or company data security, whether held and maintained by us or by our third-party providers, or whether intentional or inadvertent, could significantly damage our reputation and result in additional costs, lost sales, fines and lawsuits. The regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs. There is no guarantee that the procedures that Lands' End or our third party providers have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data are adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches. We could be held liable to our customers or other parties or be subject to regulatory or other actions for breaching privacy and information security laws and regulations, and our business and reputation could be adversely affected by any resulting loss of customer confidence, litigation, civil or criminal penalties or adverse publicity.. The payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by criminals, who are becoming increasingly more sophisticated, seeking to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit weaknesses that may exist in the payment systems. If we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements for the payment methods we accept, or if payment-related data is compromised due to a breach or misuse of data, we may have higher transaction fees, be subject to fines or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments may be impaired. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which may result in a shift to other payment types or potential changes to our payment systems that may result in higher costs.. 14. Table of Contents. We conduct business in and rely on sources for merchandise located in foreign markets, and our business may therefore be adversely affected by legal, regulatory, economic and political risks associated with international trade and those markets.. Substantially all of our merchandise is imported from vendors in China and other emerging markets in Asia and Central America, either directly by us or indirectly by distributors who, in turn, sell products to us. We also sell our products in Canada, Northern and Central Europe and Japan, and we may develop a sales presence in other international markets. Our reliance on vendors in and marketing of products to customers in foreign markets create risks inherent in doing business in foreign jurisdictions, including:. • the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including trade and labor restrictions;. • economic and political instability in the countries and regions where our customers or vendors are located;. • adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. • compliance with United States and other country laws relating to foreign operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits United States companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and the U.K. Bribery Act, which prohibits U.K. and related companies from any form of bribery;. • changes in United States and non-United States laws (or changes in the enforcement of those laws) affecting the importation and taxation of goods, including duties, tariffs and quotas, enhanced security measures at United States ports, or imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas;. • increases in shipping, labor, fuel, travel and other transportation costs;. • the imposition of anti-dumping or countervailing duty proceedings resulting in the potential assessment of special anti-dumping or countervailing duties;. • transportation delays and interruptions, including due to the failure of vendors or distributors to comply with import regulations; and. • political instability and acts of terrorism.. Any increase in the cost of merchandise purchased from these vendors or restriction on the merchandise made available by these vendors could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. The United Kingdom's referendum on European Union membership (referred to as Brexit), advising for the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union, followed by the delivery of notice by the United Kingdom government under Article 50 of the treaty on the European Unions has resulted in increased uncertainty in the economic and political environment in Europe, including potential market uncertainty, volatility in currency exchange rates, greater restrictions on imports and exports between United Kingdom and European Union countries and increased regulatory complexities, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Manufacturers in China have experienced increased costs in recent years due to shortages of labor and the fluctuation of the Chinese Yuan in relation to the United States dollar. If we are unable to successfully mitigate a significant portion of such product costs, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. New initiatives may be proposed in the United States that may have an impact on the trading status of certain countries and may include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, would increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in such countries with which we do business. Any inability on our part to rely on our foreign sources of production due to any of the factors listed above could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 15. Table of Contents. Impairment of relationships with our vendors and/or the failure of our new merchandise sourcing initiatives could have an adverse effect on our competitive position and our business and results of operations.. Most of our arrangements with the vendors that supply a significant portion of our merchandise are vendors that we have long standing relationships but with whom we do not have long-term agreements with, and, therefore, our success depends on maintaining good relations with them. Our growth strategy depends to a significant extent on the willingness and ability of our vendors to efficiently supply merchandise that is consistent with our standards for quality and value. In the event we engage new vendors, it may cause us to encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our vendors in producing our products and adhering to our standards. If we cannot obtain a sufficient amount and variety of quality product at acceptable prices, including at prices that offset increased buying agent commissions incurred, it could have a negative impact on our competitive position. This could result in lower revenues and decreased customer interest in our product offerings, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our arrangements with our vendors are generally not exclusive. As a result, our vendors might be able to sell similar or identical products to certain of our competitors, some of which purchase products in significantly greater volume. Our competitors may enter into arrangements with suppliers that could impair our ability to sell those suppliers' products, including by requiring suppliers to enter into exclusive arrangements, which could limit our access to such arrangements or products.. Our business is affected by worldwide economic and market conditions; an unstable economy, a decline in consumer-spending levels and other adverse developments, including inflation, could lead to reduced revenues and gross margins and adversely affect our business, results of operations and liquidity.. Many economic and other factors are outside of our control, including general economic and market conditions, consumer and commercial credit availability, inflation, unemployment, consumer debt levels and other challenges affecting the global economy. Increases in the rates of unemployment, decreases in home values, reduced access to credit and issues related to the domestic and international political situations may adversely affect consumer confidence and disposable income levels. Low consumer confidence and disposable incomes could lead to reduced consumer spending and lower demand for our products, which are discretionary items, the purchase of which can be reduced before customers adjust their budgets for necessities. These factors could have a negative impact on our sales and cause us to increase inventory markdowns and promotional expenses, thereby reducing our gross margins and operating results.. In addition, our liquidity needs are funded by operating cash flows and, to the extent necessary, may be funded by borrowings under our Current ABL Facility. See Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources. The ability to raise additional financing depends on numerous factors that are outside of our control, including general economic and market conditions, the health of financial institutions, our credit ratings and lenders' assessments of our prospects and the prospects of the retail industry in general. The lenders under any credit facilities or loan agreements we may enter into may not be able to meet their commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity. There can be no assurance that our ability to otherwise access the credit markets will not be adversely affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy. If we are not able to fulfill our liquidity needs through operating cash flows and/or borrowings under credit facilities or otherwise in the capital markets, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.. If we cannot compete effectively in the apparel industry, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.. The apparel industry is highly competitive. We compete with a diverse group of direct-to-consumer companies and retailers, including national department store chains, men's and women's specialty apparel chains, outdoor specialty stores, apparel catalog businesses, sportswear marketers and online apparel businesses that sell similar lines of merchandise. Brand image, marketing, design, price, service, quality, image presentation and fulfillment are all competitive factors. Our competitors may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies, adapt to changes in customer tastes or requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the design, sourcing, distribution, marketing and sale of their products, or generate greater national brand recognition than us. An inability to overcome these potential competitive disadvantages or effectively market our products relative to our competitors could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Similarly, our inability to market and sell our products in foreign jurisdictions could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. Our approach to merchandise promotions and markdowns to encourage consumer purchases could adversely affect our gross margins and results of operations.. The apparel industry is dominated by large brands and national/mass retailers, where price competition, promotion, and branded product assortment drive differentiation between competitors in the industry. In order to be competitive, we must offer customers compelling products at attractive prices, including through promotions and markdowns as appropriate, and we have operated in a highly promotional retail environment in recent periods. Heavy reliance on promotions and markdowns to encourage customers to purchase our merchandise, could have a negative impact on our brand equity, gross margins and results of operations.. Our efforts to expand our channels and geographic reach may not be successful.. Our strategy includes initiatives to reach under-penetrated regional markets in the United States and pursue international expansion in a number of countries around the world, through a number of channels and brands, including through relationships with third party e-commerce platforms. We have limited experience operating in many of these locations and with third parties, and face major, established competitors and barriers to entry. In addition, in many of these international locations, the real estate, employment and labor, transportation and logistics, regulatory and other operating requirements differ dramatically from those in the places where we have experience. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may also adversely affect our international operations and sales, including by increasing the cost of business in certain locations. Moreover, consumer tastes and trends may differ in many of these locations from those in our existing locations, and as a result, the sales of our products may not be successful or profitable. If our expansion efforts are not successful or do not deliver an appropriate return on our investments, our business could be adversely affected.. The results of our Retail segment depend on the performance of our Lands' End Shops at Sears; if Sears Roebuck sells or disposes of its retail stores or if its retail business does not adequately promote their business or does not attract customers, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The Retail segment, which accounted for approximately 12.3% of our revenues in Fiscal 2017, depends on the performance of our Lands' End Shops at Sears. We operated 174 Lands' End Shops at Sears as of the end of Fiscal 2017. These stores had revenues of approximately $150.0 million in Fiscal 2017, representing 87% of our Retail sales and 11% of our overall sales for Fiscal 2017. The Lands' End Shops at Sears may decrease or be eliminated entirely if Sears Roebuck sells, disposes of or transfers ownership or control of any or all of its retail stores. The performance and appeal of Sears stores and foot traffic within Sears stores, therefore, have a major impact on the sales of our Retail segment.. In addition, under our retail operations agreement and leases with Sears Roebuck, we depend on Sears Roebuck for various retail services and employees to support the Lands' End Shops at Sears, including providing a dedicated, well-trained staff to directly engage with customers at the Lands' End Shops at Sears, effective inventory management, safeguarding of our assets, and maintaining dedicated sales areas for Lands' End branded products and shopping lounges where customers can search our offerings via the Internet and catalog. If Sears Roebuck does not provide these services going forward with the standard of quality and in accordance with our agreements with Sears Roebuck and does not deliver a rewarding shopping experience to our customers, our reputation could suffer and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. 17. Table of Contents. Under the terms of the master lease agreement and master sublease agreement pursuant to which Sears Roebuck leases or subleases to us the premises for the Lands' End Shops at Sears, Sears Roebuck has certain rights to (1) relocate our leased premises within the building in which such premises are located, subject to certain limitations, including our right to terminate the applicable lease if we are not satisfied with the new premises, and (2) terminate without liability the lease with respect to a particular Lands' End Shop if the overall Sears store in which such Lands' End Shop is located is closed or sold. Sears Holdings announced that it intends to continue to right-size, redeploy and highlight the value of its assets, including its real estate portfolio, in its transition from an asset-intensive, store-focused retailer and that it has entered into lease agreements with third party retailers for stand-alone stores. On July 7, 2015, Sears Holdings completed a rights offering and sale-leaseback transaction (the \"Seritage transaction\") with Seritage Growth Properties (\"Seritage\"), an independent publicly traded real estate investment trust. Sears Holdings disclosed that as part of the Seritage transaction, it sold 235 properties to Seritage (the \"REIT properties\") along with Sears Holdings' 50% interest in each of three real estate joint ventures (collectively, the \"JVs\"). Sears Holdings also disclosed that it contributed 31 properties to the JVs (the \"JV properties\"). As of February 2, 2018, 36 of the REIT properties contained a Lands' End Shop and 10 of the JV properties contained a Lands' End Shop, the leases with respect to which Sears Roebuck retained for its own account. Sears Holdings disclosed that Seritage and the JVs have a recapture right with respect to approximately 50% of the space within the stores at the REIT properties and JV properties (subject to certain exceptions), and with respect to nine of the stores that contain a Lands' End Shop, Seritage has the additional right to recapture 100% of the space within the Sears Roebuck store. If Sears Roebuck continues to dispose of retail stores that contain Lands' End Shops, and/or offer us relocation alternatives for Lands' End Shops that are less attractive than the current premises, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our efforts to build out our stand alone stores and implement a new store concept may not be successful.. In order to generate customer traffic we will seek to locate our new stores in prominent locations within successful shopping areas. Sales at these new stores will be derived from the volume of traffic. Our sales volume and store traffic generally may be adversely affected by, among other things, economic downturns in a particular area, competition from e-commerce retailers, non-mall retailers and other malls, increases in gasoline prices, fluctuations in exchange rates in border or tourism-oriented locations and the closing or decline in popularity of other stores in the vicinity in which we are located.. Our strategy includes the design and implementation of a standardized store concept in our new store locations. If customers are not receptive of our new store concept, projected store sales and profitability may suffer. Additionally, as Sears Holdings continues to close stores containing a Lands' End Shop, it is possible that we may be unable to open enough stores to fully compensate for the loss of revenues from closures.. If we fail to timely and effectively obtain shipments of products from our vendors and deliver merchandise to our customers, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third-party vendors for the manufacture of our merchandise. We cannot control all of the various factors that might affect timely and effective procurement of supplies of product from our vendors and delivery of merchandise to our customers. A majority of the products that we purchase must be shipped to our distribution centers in Dodgeville, Reedsburg and Stevens Point, Wisconsin; Oakham, United Kingdom; and Fujieda, Japan. While our reliance on a limited number of distribution centers provides certain efficiencies, it also makes us more vulnerable to natural disasters, weather-related disruptions, accidents, system failures or other unforeseen causes that could delay or impair our ability to fulfill customer orders and/or ship merchandise to our stores, which could adversely affect sales. Our ability to mitigate the adverse impacts of these events depends in part upon the effectiveness of our disaster preparedness and response planning, as well as business continuity planning. Our utilization of imports also makes us vulnerable to risks associated with products manufactured abroad, including, among other things, risks of damage, destruction or confiscation of products while in transit to a distribution center, organized labor strikes and work stoppages such as the recent labor dispute that disrupted operations at ports-of-entry on the west coast of the United States, transportation and other delays in shipments, including as a result of heightened security screening and inspection processes or other port-of-entry limitations or restrictions in the United States, the United Kingdom and Japan, unexpected or significant port congestion, lack of freight availability and freight cost increases. In addition, if we experience a shortage of a popular item, we may be required to arrange for additional quantities of the item, if available, to be delivered through airfreight, which is significantly more expensive than standard shipping by sea. We may not be able to obtain sufficient freight capacity on a timely basis or at favorable shipping rates and, therefore, may not be able to timely receive merchandise from vendors or deliver products to customers.. 18. Table of Contents. We rely upon third-party land-based and air freight carriers for merchandise shipments from our distribution centers to customers. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks, including labor disputes, union organizing activity, inclement weather and increased transportation costs, associated with such carriers' ability to provide delivery services to meet outbound shipping needs. In addition, if the cost of fuel rises or remains at current levels, the cost to deliver merchandise from distribution centers to customers may rise, and, although some of these costs are paid by our customers, such costs could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Failure to procure and deliver merchandise to customers in a timely, effective and economically viable manner could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business. In addition, any increase in distribution costs and expenses could adversely affect our future financial performance.. If we are unable to protect or preserve the image of our brands and our intellectual property rights, our business may be adversely affected.. We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. As such, we rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our associates, consultants, vendors and others to protect our proprietary rights. Nevertheless, the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate and we may experience difficulty in effectively limiting unauthorized use of our trademarks and other intellectual property worldwide. Unauthorized use of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights may cause significant damage to our brands and our ability to effectively represent ourselves to agents, suppliers, vendors, licensees and/or customers. While we intend to enforce our trademark and other proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that we are adequately protected in all countries or that we will prevail when defending our trademark and proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks or other proprietary rights for any reason, or if we fail to maintain the image of our brands due to merchandise and service quality issues, actual or perceived, adverse publicity, governmental investigations or litigation, or other reasons, our brands and reputation could be damaged and our business may be adversely affected.. Third parties may sue us for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. The party claiming infringement might have greater resources than we do to pursue its claims, and we could be forced to incur substantial costs and devote significant management resources to defend against such litigation. If the party claiming infringement were to prevail, we could be forced to discontinue the use of the related trademark or design and/or pay significant damages, or to enter into expensive royalty or licensing arrangements with the prevailing party, assuming these royalty or licensing arrangements are available at all on an economically feasible basis, which they may not be.. We could incur charges due to impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets.. As of February 2, 2018, we had goodwill and intangible asset balances totaling $367.0 million, which are subject to testing for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. Our intangible assets consist of $257.0 million for our trade name and goodwill of $110.0 million. Any event that impacts our reputation could result in impairment charges for our trade name. Long-lived assets, primarily property and equipment, are also subject to testing for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. A significant amount of judgment is involved in our impairment assessment. If actual results fall short of our estimates and assumptions used in estimating revenue growth, future cash flows and asset fair values, we could incur further impairment charges for intangible assets, goodwill or long-lived assets, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. During Fiscal 2017, Fiscal 2016 and Fiscal 2015, the fair value of the Direct reporting unit exceeded the carrying value by 22.9%, 17.1% and 23.8%, respectively, and as such, the Company did not record any goodwill impairment charges. During Fiscal 2017, the fair value exceeded the carrying value by 9.7%, and as such, no trade name impairment charges were recorded.We recorded impairments to our trade name intangible asset of $173.0 million and 98.3 million in Fiscal 2016 and Fiscal 2015, respectively.. 19. Table of Contents. Our failure to retain our executive management team and to attract qualified new personnel could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We depend on the talents and continued efforts of our executive management team. The loss of members of our executive management may disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, our ability to manage further expansion will require us to continue to train, motivate and manage employees and to attract, motivate and retain additional qualified personnel, including field sales representatives for our Outfitters by Lands' End business. We believe that having personnel who are passionate about our brand and have industry experience and a strong customer service ethic has been an important factor in our historical success, and we believe that it will continue to be important to growing our business. Competition for these types of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. With the seasonal nature of the retail business, over 2,000 flexible part-time employees join us each year to support our varying peak seasons, including the fourth quarter holiday shopping season. An inability to attract qualified seasonal personnel could interrupt our sales during this period.. Fluctuations and increases in the costs of raw materials could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our products are manufactured using several key raw materials, including wool, cotton and down, which are subject to fluctuations in price and availability and many of which are produced in emerging markets in Asia and Central America. The prices of these raw materials can be volatile due to the demand for fabrics, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, general economic conditions, crop yields and other unpredictable factors. Such factors may be exacerbated by legislation and regulations associated with global climate change. The prices of these raw materials may also fluctuate based on a number of other factors beyond our control, including commodity prices such as prices for oil, changes in supply and demand, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, anti-dumping duties, currency exchange rates and government regulation. These fluctuations may result in an increase in our transportation costs for freight and distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and overall costs to purchase products from our vendors. Fluctuations in the cost, availability and quality of the raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise could have an adverse effect on our cost of goods, or our ability to meet customer demand.. Increases in postage, paper and printing costs could adversely affect the costs of producing and distributing our catalog and promotional mailings, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Catalog mailings are a key aspect of our business and increases in costs relating to postage, paper and printing would increase the cost of our catalog mailings and could reduce our profitability to the extent that we are unable to offset such increases by raising prices, by implementing more efficient printing, mailing, delivery and order fulfillment systems or by using alternative direct-mail formats.. We currently use the national mail carriers for distribution of substantially all of our catalogs and are therefore vulnerable to postal rate increases. The current economic and legislative environments may lead to further rate increases or a discontinuation of the discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier routes which Lands' End currently leverages for cost savings.. Paper for catalogs and promotional mailings is a vital resource in the success of our business. The market price for paper has fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. In addition, future pricing and supply availability of catalog paper may be impacted by the continued consolidation or closings of production facilities in the United States. We do not have multi-year fixed-price contracts for the supply of paper and are not guaranteed access to, or reasonable prices for, the amounts required for the operation of our business over the long term.. We also depend upon external vendors to print and mail our catalogs. The limited number of printers capable of handling such needs subjects us to risks if any printer fails to perform under our agreement. Most of our catalog-related costs are incurred prior to mailing, and we are not able to adjust the costs of a particular catalog mailing to reflect the actual subsequent performance of the catalog.. 20. Table of Contents. If we do not efficiently manage inventory levels, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. We must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully, but we must also avoid accumulating excess inventory, which increases working capital needs and lowers gross margins. We obtain substantially all of our inventory from vendors located outside the United States. Some of these vendors often require lengthy advance notice of order requirements in order to be able to supply products in the quantities requested. This usually requires us to order merchandise, and enter into commitments for the purchase of such merchandise, well in advance of the time these products will be offered for sale. As a result, it may be difficult to respond to changes in the apparel, footwear, accessories or home products markets. If we do not accurately anticipate the future demand for a particular product or the time it will take to obtain new inventory, inventory levels will not be appropriate and our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Inventory shrinkage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We hold high volumes of inventory and are subject to the attendant risks of inventory loss, spoilage, shrink, scrap and theft (which we collectively refer to as \"shrinkage\"). Although some level of inventory shrinkage is an unavoidable cost of doing business, if we were to experience higher rates of inventory shrinkage or incur increased security costs to combat inventory theft, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on third parties to provide us with services in connection with certain aspects of our business, and any failure by these third parties to perform their obligations could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We have entered into agreements with third parties for logistics services, information technology systems (including hosting some of our e-commerce websites), onshore and offshore software development and support, merchandise buying agent services, catalog production, distribution and packaging and employee benefits. Services provided by any of our third-party suppliers could be interrupted as a result of many factors, such as acts of nature or contract disputes. Any failure by a third party to provide us with contracted-for services on a timely basis or within service level expectations and performance standards could result in a disruption of our business and have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. If our independent vendors do not use ethical business practices or comply with applicable regulations and laws, our reputation could be materially harmed and have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our reputation and customers' willingness to purchase our products depend in part on our vendors' compliance with ethical employment practices, such as with respect to child labor, wages and benefits, forced labor, discrimination, freedom of association, unlawful inducements, safe and healthy working conditions, and with all legal and regulatory requirements relating to the conduct of their business. While we operate compliance and monitoring programs to promote ethical and lawful business practices, we do not exercise ultimate control over our independent vendors or their business practices and cannot guarantee their compliance with ethical and lawful business practices. Violation of labor or other laws by vendors, or the divergence of a vendor's labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States could materially hurt our reputation, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. 21. Table of Contents. We may be subject to periodic litigation and other regulatory proceedings, including with respect to product liability claims. These proceedings may be affected by changes in laws and government regulations or changes in their enforcement.. From time to time, we may be involved in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business or products we sell or have sold. These proceedings may be in jurisdictions with reputations for aggressive application of laws and procedures against corporate defendants. We are impacted by trends in litigation, including class-action allegations brought under various consumer protection and employment laws, including wage and hour laws, privacy laws, and laws relating to electronic commerce. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Regardless of the outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceedings, any such proceeding could result in substantial costs and may require that we devote substantial resources to defend the proceeding, which could affect the future premiums we would be required to pay on our insurance policies. Changes in governmental regulations could also have adverse effects on our business and subject us to additional regulatory actions.. Some of the products we sell may expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death or property damage allegedly caused by these products, and could require us to take corrective actions, including product recalls. Although we maintain liability insurance, there is no guarantee that our current or future coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred, or that insurance will continue to be available on economically reasonable terms, or at all. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods, regardless of the ultimate outcome. Claims of this nature, as well as product recalls, could also have an adverse effect on customer confidence in the products we sell and on our reputation, business and results of operations.. The Company may have significant uncertain impacts related to changes in tax law in the United States.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was signed into law. The Tax Act contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, additional limitations on the tax deductibility of interest, substantial changes to the taxation of foreign earnings, immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modification or repeal of many business deductions and credits. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Act is uncertain, and changes in interpretation or tax planning strategies could significantly impact the Company's results of operations, cash flows and financial conditions, as well as the trading price of Common Stock, which could be adversely affected.. We may be subject to assessments for additional state taxes, which could adversely affect our business.. In accordance with current law, we pay, collect and/or remit taxes in those states where we or our subsidiaries, as applicable, maintain a physical presence. While we believe that we have appropriately remitted all taxes based on our interpretation of applicable law, tax laws are complex and their application differs from state to state. It is possible that some taxing jurisdictions may attempt to assess additional taxes and penalties on us or assert either an error in our calculation, a change in the application of law, or an interpretation of the law that differs from our own which may, if successful, adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our business is seasonal in nature, and any decrease in our sales or margins could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. The apparel industry is highly seasonal, with the highest levels of sales occurring during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. Our sales and margins during the fourth quarter may fluctuate based upon factors such as the timing of holiday seasons and promotions, the amount of net revenue contributed by new and existing stores, the timing and level of markdowns, competitive factors, weather and general economic conditions. Any decrease in sales or margins, whether as a result of increased promotional activity or because of economic conditions, poor weather or other factors, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels, since we usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We generally carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the fourth quarter peak selling periods. If we are not successful in selling inventory during these periods, we may have to sell the inventory at significantly reduced prices, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. 22. Table of Contents. Unseasonal or severe weather conditions may adversely affect our merchandise sales.. Our business is adversely affected by unseasonal weather conditions. Sales of certain seasonal apparel items, specifically outerwear and swimwear, are dependent, in part, on the weather and may decline in years in which weather conditions do not favor the use of these products. Sales of our spring and summer products, which traditionally consist of lighter clothing and swimwear, are adversely affected by cool or wet weather. Similarly, sales of our fall and winter products, which are traditionally weighted toward outerwear, are adversely affected by mild, dry or warm weather. In addition, severe weather events typically lead to temporarily reduced traffic at our retail locations which could lead to reduced sales of our merchandise. Severe weather events may impact our ability to supply our stores, deliver orders to customers on schedule and staff our stores and fulfillment centers, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Other factors may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Many other factors may affect our profitability and financial condition, including:. • changes in or interpretations of laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, product marketing application standards and environmental laws;. • differences between the fair value measurement of assets and liabilities and their actual value, particularly for intangibles and goodwill; and for contingent liabilities such as litigation, the absence of a recorded amount, or an amount recorded at the minimum, compared to the actual amount;. • changes in the rate of inflation, interest rates and the performance of investments held by us;. • changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties that transact business with or provide services to us; and. • changes in business, economic and political conditions, including war, political instability, terrorist attacks, the threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; natural disasters; the cost and availability of insurance due to any of the foregoing events; labor disputes, strikes, slow-downs or other forms of labor or union activity; and pressure from third-party interest groups.. Additional Risks Related to Our Separation from, and Relationship with, Sears Holdings. If Sears Holdings' financial condition were to deteriorate more than expected, or if Sears Holdings or its subsidiaries fail to perform under various agreements with us as a result of insolvency or otherwise, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected.. In connection with the Separation, we entered into various agreements to effect the Separation and provide a framework for our relationship with Sears Holdings after the Separation, including agreements that require each party to indemnify the other for all liabilities (including third-party claims) incurred or suffered by the other relating to their respective assumed liabilities. We have also entered into various commercial agreements with subsidiaries of Sears Holdings, including a buying office agreement for certain sourcing services, as well as a master lease agreement, a master sublease agreement, a retail operations agreement for the Lands' End Shops at Sears, under which we lease those locations from Sears Roebuck and rely on it and other subsidiaries of Sears Holdings to provide logistics, point-of-sale and related store systems to the Lands' End Shops at Sears. If Sears Holdings' financial condition significantly deteriorates, its ability to perform and satisfy its obligations under its various agreements with us could be negatively impacted. Moreover, if Sears Holdings were to become the subject of insolvency proceedings, a court could, among other things, permit or require Sears Holdings to terminate one or more of its existing agreements or leases with us. If Sears Holdings or its subsidiaries are unable to satisfy their performance and payment obligations under their agreements with us, including their indemnification obligations, or if their agreements or leases with us are rejected in connection with insolvency proceedings, we could suffer operational difficulties, lose the ability to operate some or all of the Lands' End Shops at Sears and incur significant costs or losses, and our financial performance could be materially and adversely affected.. 23. Table of Contents. ESL, whose interests may be different from the interests of other stockholders, may be able to exert substantial influence over our company.. According to an amendment to Schedule 13D filed on January 25, 2018 with the SEC, ESL beneficially owned on the filing date 67.1% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Accordingly, ESL could have substantial influence over many, if not all, actions to be taken or approved by our stockholders, and will have a significant voice in the election of directors and any transactions involving a change of control. The interests of ESL, which has investments in other companies (including Sears Holdings), may from time to time diverge from the interests of our other stockholders.. Potential liabilities may arise under fraudulent conveyance and transfer laws and legal capital requirements, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations.. In the event that any entity involved in the Separation (including certain internal restructuring and financing transactions contemplated to be consummated in connection with the Separation) subsequently fails to pay its creditors or enters insolvency proceedings, these transactions may be challenged under United States federal, United States state and foreign fraudulent conveyance and transfer laws, as well as legal capital requirements governing distributions and similar transactions. If a court were to determine under these laws that, (a) at the time of the Separation, the entity in question: (1) was insolvent; (2) was rendered insolvent by reason of the Separation; (3) had remaining assets constituting unreasonably small capital; (4) intended to incur, or believed it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay these debts as they matured; or (b) the transaction in question failed to satisfy applicable legal capital requirements, the court could determine that the Separation was voidable, in whole or in part. Subject to various defenses, the court could then require Sears Holdings or us, or other recipients of value in connection with the Separation (potentially including our stockholders as recipients of shares of our common stock in connection with the Separation), as the case may be, to turn over value to other entities involved in the Separation and related transactions for the benefit of unpaid creditors. The measure of insolvency and applicable legal capital requirements will vary depending upon the jurisdiction whose law is being applied.. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness. Our leverage may place us at a competitive disadvantage in our industry. The agreements governing our debt contain various covenants that impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to operate our business.. We have significant debt service obligations. Our debt and debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. Our level of debt presents the following risks, among others:. • we could be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal (including amortization) and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions and other general corporate requirements or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • our interest expense could increase if prevailing interest rates increase, because a substantial portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates;. • our substantial leverage could increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged;. • our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, our industry and changing market conditions and could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategies;. • our level of debt may restrict us from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions and other general corporate requirements;. • the agreements governing our debt contain covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends or make other restricted payments and investments;. 24. Table of Contents. • the agreements governing our debt contain operating covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our best interests in the long term, including, without limitation, by restricting our subsidiaries' ability to incur debt, create liens, enter into transactions with affiliates or prepay certain kinds of indebtedness; and. • the failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the applicable debt, may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies, and in the event our creditors accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that debt.. We may need additional financing in the future for our general corporate purposes or growth strategies, and such financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, and may be dilutive to existing stockholders.. We may need to seek additional financing for our general corporate purposes or growth strategies. We may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our expansion, successfully develop or enhance our products, or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect our business. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our stockholders could experience dilution of their ownership interest. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to limitations on our operations due to restrictive covenants.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our common stock price may decline if ESL decides to sell a portion of its holdings of our common stock.. ESL will, in its sole discretion, determine the timing and terms of any transactions with respect to its shares common stock of the Company, taking into account business and market conditions and other factors that it deems relevant. ESL is not subject to any contractual obligation to maintain its ownership position in us, although it may be subject to certain transfer restrictions imposed by securities law. Consequently, we cannot assure you that ESL will maintain its ownership interest in us. Any sale by ESL of our common stock or any announcement by ESL that it has decided to sell shares of our common stock, or the perception by the investment community that ESL has sold or decided to sell shares of our common stock, could have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock.. Our share price may be volatile.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;. • changes in earnings estimated by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates;. • the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies;. • changes to the regulatory and legal environment under which we operate; and. • domestic and worldwide economic conditions.. Further, when the market price of a company's common stock drops significantly, stockholders often initiate securities class action lawsuits against the company. A lawsuit against Lands' End could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our senior management and other resources.. Your percentage ownership in Lands' End may be diluted in the future.. In the future, your percentage ownership in Lands' End may be diluted because of equity issuances for acquisitions, strategic investments, capital market transactions or otherwise, including equity awards that we may grant to our directors, officers and employees. The Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors may grant additional stock-based awards to our employees, which would have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share, and which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. From time to time, we may issue additional stock-based awards to our employees under our employee benefits plans.. 25. Table of Contents"
