[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks described below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect us. The risks described could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, cash flows, prospects or ability to make distributions to shareholders, any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common and preferred shares.. Risks Related to Our Business and the Lodging Industry. Economic conditions may reduce demand for hotel properties and adversely affect our profitability.. The performance of the lodging industry is highly cyclical and has traditionally been closely linked with the performance of the general economy and, specifically, growth in the U.S. gross domestic product (\"GDP\"), employment, investment and travel demand. We cannot predict the pace or duration of the global economic cycle or the cycles of the lodging industry. In the event conditions in the industry deteriorate or do not continue to see sustained improvement, or there is an extended period of economic weakness, our occupancy rates, revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, other macroeconomic factors, such as consumer confidence and conditions which negatively shape public perception of travel, may have a negative effect on the lodging industry and may adversely affect our business.. Furthermore, all of our hotels are classified as luxury, upper upscale or upscale. In an economic downturn, these types of hotels may be more susceptible to a decrease in revenue, as compared to hotels in other categories that have lower room rates. This characteristic may result from the fact that upper upscale hotels generally target business and high-end leisure travelers. In periods of economic difficulties, business and leisure travelers may seek to reduce travel costs by limiting travel or seeking to reduce costs on their trips. In addition, in periods of weak demand, as may occur during a general economic recession, profitability is negatively affected by the relatively high fixed costs of operating luxury, upper upscale and upscale hotels. Consequently, any uncertainty in the general economic environment could adversely affect our business.. We will be significantly influenced by the economies and other conditions in the specific markets in which we operate, particularly in the metropolitan areas where we have high concentrations of hotels.. We focus on primary urban markets, including Boston, MA, Chicago, IL, Los Angeles, CA, New York, NY, San Diego, CA, San Francisco, CA, Seattle, WA and Washington, DC. As of December 31, 2017, our hotels were located in 11 markets in seven states and the District of Columbia, including nine hotels located in Washington, DC, six hotels located in San Francisco, CA, six hotels located in Los Angeles, CA, five hotels located in San Diego, CA and four hotels located in both Boston, MA and New York, NY. As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse market conditions in these geographic areas, including industry downturns, relocation of businesses and any oversupply of hotel rooms or a reduction in lodging demand. Adverse economic developments in the markets in which we have a concentration of hotels, or in any of the other markets in which we operate, or any increase in hotel supply or decrease in lodging demand resulting from the local, regional or national business climate, could adversely affect us.. The return on our hotels depends upon the ability of the hotel operators to operate and manage the hotels.. To maintain our status as a REIT, we are not permitted to operate any of our hotels. As a result, we are unable to directly implement strategic business decisions with respect to the daily operation and marketing of our hotels, such as decisions with respect to the setting of room rates, repositioning of a hotel, food and beverage pricing and certain similar matters. Although LHL consults with the hotel operators with respect to strategic business plans, the hotel operators are under no obligation to implement any of our recommendations with respect to such matters. Thus, even if we believe our hotels are being operated inefficiently or in a manner that does not result in satisfactory occupancy rates, RevPAR, ADR or operating profits, we may not have sufficient rights under our hotel operating agreements to enable us to force the hotel operator to change its method of operation. We generally can only seek redress if a hotel operator violates the terms of the applicable operating agreement, and then only to the extent of the remedies provided for under the terms of the agreement. Some of the operating agreements have lengthy terms and may not be terminable by us before the agreement's expiration. In the event that we are able to and do replace any of our hotel operators,. 6. Table of Contents. we may experience significant disruptions at the affected hotels, which may adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations to make distributions to our shareholders at expected levels.. We intend to pay quarterly distributions to our shareholders that represent at least 90% of our REIT taxable income. Our ability to make these intended distributions may be adversely affected by the factors, risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports that we file from time to time with the SEC. Our Board of Trustees will make determinations regarding distributions based upon many factors, including investment activity, our cash available for distribution, our operating results and financial condition, our debt service obligations and debt covenants, our operating expenses and capital expenditure requirements, the economic outlook, the requirements for qualification as a REIT under the Code and other factors that our Board of Trustees may deem relevant from time to time. As a result, no assurance can be given that we will make distributions to our shareholders at expected levels, or at all, or that distributions will increase or even be maintained over time, any of which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common shares.. Our hotels are subject to significant competition.. The markets where our hotels are located and the luxury, upper upscale and upscale segments of the hotel business are highly competitive. Our hotels compete on the basis of a number of factors, including location, room rates, quality of accommodations, service levels, reputation, reservations systems, brand recognition and supply and availability of alternative lodging, among many factors. There are many competitors in the luxury, upper upscale and upscale segments in our markets, and many of these competitors may have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we have. This competition could reduce occupancy levels and room revenue at our hotels, which would harm our operations.. Furthermore, in addition to competing with traditional hotels and lodging facilities, we compete with alternative lodging companies, such as HomeAway and Airbnb, which operate websites that market available furnished, privately-owned residential properties, including homes and condominiums, that can be rented on a nightly, weekly or monthly basis. Increasing use of these alternative lodging companies could materially adversely affect the occupancy at our hotels and could put downward pressure on average rates and revenues.. In addition, over-building in the hotel industry may increase the number of rooms available and may decrease occupancy and room rates, which can quickly destabilize a market and existing hotels can experience rapidly decreasing RevPAR and profitability. If such over-building occurs in one or more of our markets, our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders could be materially adversely affected.. Our performance and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders are subject to risks associated with the hotel industry.. Competition for guests, increases in operating costs, dependence on travel and poor economic conditions could adversely affect our cash flow.    Our hotel properties have different economic characteristics than many other real estate assets. A typical office REIT, for example, has long-term leases with third-party tenants, which provide a relatively stable long-term stream of revenue. On the other hand, virtually all hotel guests stay at a hotel for only a few nights at a time, so the rate and occupancy at each of our hotels changes every day. As a result, we may have highly volatile earnings.. In addition, our hotels are subject to all operating risks common to the hotel industry, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include:. • adverse effects of weak national, regional and local economic conditions;. • tightening credit standards;. • competition for guests and meetings from other hotels and alternative lodging companies, including competition and pricing pressure from Internet wholesalers and distributors;. • an over-supply or over-building of hotels in the markets in which we own properties;. • increases in operating costs, including wages, benefits, insurance, property taxes and energy, due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset in the future by increased room rates;. • labor strikes, disruptions or lockouts that may impact operating performance;. 7. Table of Contents. • dependence on demand from business and leisure travelers, which may fluctuate and be seasonal;. • increases in energy costs, airline fares and other expenses related to travel, which may negatively affect traveling;. • terrorism, terrorism alerts and warnings, military actions, pandemics or other medical events which may cause decreases in business and leisure travel;. • risks that the recent travel ban to the United States and proposed immigration policies will suppress international travel to the United States generally;. • the impact of geopolitical developments outside the United States, such as the pace of the economic recovery in Europe, the effects of the United Kingdom's referendum to withdraw from the European Union, or unrest in the Middle East, which could affect the relative volatility of global credit markets generally and global travel and lodging demand; and. • changes in governmental laws and regulations, local policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance.. These factors could adversely affect the ability of the hotel operators to generate revenues which could adversely affect LHL's ability to make rental payments to the Operating Partnership pursuant to the participating leases and ultimately impact our liquidity.. Unexpected capital expenditures could adversely affect our cash flow.    Hotels require ongoing renovations and other capital improvements, including periodic replacement or refurbishment of furniture, fixtures and equipment. Under the terms of our leases, we are obligated to pay the cost of certain capital expenditures at the hotels, including new brand standards, and to pay for periodic replacement or refurbishment of furniture, fixtures and equipment. If capital expenditures exceed expectations, there can be no assurance that sufficient sources of financing will be available to fund such expenditures.. In addition, we have acquired hotels that have undergone significant renovation and may acquire additional hotels in the future that require significant renovation. Renovations of hotels involve numerous risks, including the possibility of environmental problems, construction cost overruns and delays, the effect on current demand, uncertainties as to market demand or deterioration in market demand after commencement of renovation and the emergence of unanticipated competition from other hotels.. We may not be able to fund capital improvements solely from cash provided from our operating activities because we generally must distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year to maintain our REIT tax status. As a result, our ability to fund capital expenditures or investments through retained earnings, is very limited. Consequently, we may rely upon the availability of debt or equity capital to fund our investments and capital improvements. These sources of funds may not be available on reasonable terms or conditions.. The seasonality of the lodging industry may cause fluctuations in our quarterly revenues.    The lodging industry is seasonal in nature. This seasonality can be expected to cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenues. Our quarterly earnings may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, including weather conditions and poor economic factors.. The increasing use of Internet travel intermediaries by consumers may reduce our revenues.    Some of our hotel rooms are booked through Internet travel intermediaries, such as Travelocity.com, Expedia.com and Priceline.com. As bookings through these intermediaries increase, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from the management companies that operate the hotels we own and acquire. Moreover, some of these Internet travel intermediaries are attempting to offer hotel rooms as a commodity, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality (such as \"three-star downtown hotel\"), at the expense of brand identification or quality of product or service. These intermediaries hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservations system rather than to lodging brands or properties. If the amount of bookings made through Internet travel intermediaries proves to be more significant than we expect, profitability may be lower than expected.. 8. Table of Contents. Terrorist attacks, natural disasters, significant military actions, outbreaks of contagious diseases, travel restrictions or other events could adversely affect travel and hotel demand.. We own hotels in metropolitan markets that have been, or may in the future be, targets of actual or threatened terrorist attacks, including Boston, MA, Chicago, IL, New York, NY and Washington, DC. Previous terrorist attacks and subsequent terrorist alerts have adversely affected the U.S. travel and hospitality industries over the past several years, often disproportionately to the effect on the overall economy. In addition, we own 19 hotels located in areas of the West Coast that are seismically active and two hotels (Southernmost Beach Resort Key West and The Marker Waterfront Resort) in areas that have the potential to experience hurricanes. For example, in September 2017, our operations at Southernmost Beach Resort Key West and The Marker Waterfront Resort were impacted negatively by Hurricane Irma. Even in the absence of direct physical damage to our hotels, the occurrence of terrorist attacks, natural disasters, significant military actions, outbreaks of diseases, such as Ebola virus, H1N1 flu, SARS or Zika virus, or other casualty events, or significant government restrictions or limitations on travel to the United States will likely have a material adverse effect on business and commercial travelers and tourists, the economy generally and the hotel and tourism industries in particular.. We may not have enough insurance.. We carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake, extended coverage and business interruption policies that insure us against losses with policy specifications and insurance limits that we believe are reasonable. There are certain types of losses, such as losses from environmental problems or terrorism, that management may not be able to insure against or may decide not to insure against since the cost of insuring is not economical. We may suffer losses that exceed our insurance coverage. Further, market conditions, changes in building codes and ordinances or other factors such as environmental laws may make it too expensive to repair or replace a property that has been damaged or destroyed, even if covered by insurance.. Because real estate investments are illiquid, we may not be able to sell hotels when desired.. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. We may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. In addition, provisions of the Code limit a REIT's ability to sell properties in some situations when it may be economically advantageous to do so.. Liability for environmental matters could adversely affect our financial condition.. As an owner of real property, we are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment that may require a current or previous owner of real estate to investigate and clean-up hazardous or toxic substances at a property. These laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants, and liability is not limited under the enactments and could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment facility, whether or not such facility is owned or operated by the person, may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substance released into the environment at the disposal or treatment facility. Even if more than one person were responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for the entire amount of clean-up costs incurred.. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos-containing materials. These laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with asbestos-containing materials. In connection with ownership (direct or indirect) of our hotels, we may be considered an owner or operator of properties with asbestos-containing materials. Having arranged for the disposal or treatment of contaminants, we may be potentially liable for removal, remediation and other costs, including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property.. Our hotels may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem.. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing, as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our hotels could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from hotel guests, hotel employees and others if property damage or adverse health concerns arise.. 9. Table of Contents. The costs of compliance with the ADA and other government regulations could adversely affect our cash flow.. Under the ADA, all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. A determination that we are not in compliance with the ADA could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. If we are required to make substantial modifications to our hotels, whether to comply with ADA or other government regulation such as building codes or fire safety regulations, our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected.. Certain leases and management agreements may constrain us from acting in the best interest of shareholders or require us to make certain payments.. The Hyatt Regency Boston Harbor, San Diego Paradise Point Resort and Spa, The Hilton San Diego Resort and Spa, The Roger, Viceroy Santa Monica, The Liberty Hotel, Harbor Court Hotel, Southernmost Beach Resort Key West (restaurant facility) and Hotel Vitale are each subject to a ground or land and building lease with a third-party lessor which requires us to obtain the consent of the relevant third party lessor in order to sell any of these hotels or to assign our leasehold interest in any of the ground or land and building leases. Accordingly, if we determine that the sale of any of these hotels or the assignment of our leasehold interest in any of these ground or land and building leases is in the best interest of our shareholders, we may be prevented from completing such a transaction if we are unable to obtain the required consent from the relevant lessor. Westin Copley Place is subject to an air rights lease and Hotel Solamar is subject to a ground lease, which do not require approval from the relevant third-party lessor. In addition, at any given time, potential investors may be disinterested in buying hotel properties subject to a ground lease and may pay a lower price for such properties than for a comparable property in fee simple, or they may not purchase such properties at any price whatsoever. For these reasons, we may have a difficult time selling a hotel property subject to a ground lease or may receive lower proceeds from a sale. Finally, as the lessee under our ground leases, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the hotel, or a portion of the hotel, upon termination, or an earlier breach by us, of the ground lease.. In some instances, we may be required to obtain the consent of the hotel operator or franchisor prior to selling the hotel. Typically, such consent is only required in connection with certain proposed sales, such as if the proposed purchaser is engaged in the operation of a competing hotel or does not meet certain minimum financial requirements.. Some of our hotels are subject to rights of first offer which may adversely affect our ability to sell those properties on favorable terms or at all.. We are subject to a franchisor's or operator's right of first offer, in some instances, with respect to the Embassy Suites Philadelphia - Center City, Hilton San Diego Gaslamp Quarter, Park Central Hotel New York and WestHouse Hotel New York, Park Central San Francisco, The Hilton San Diego Resort and Spa, Westin Copley Place and Westin Michigan Avenue. These third-party rights may adversely affect our ability to timely dispose of these properties on favorable terms, or at all.. We may be unable to consummate acquisitions on advantageous terms or acquisitions may not perform as anticipated.. In the ordinary course of our business and when our liquidity position permits, we consider acquisition opportunities. The acquisition of hotel properties involves risks, including the risk that the acquired hotel property will not perform as anticipated and the risk that any actual costs for rehabilitating, repositioning, renovating and improving identified in the pre-acquisition process will exceed estimates. Further, we face competition for attractive acquisition opportunities from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including both publicly-traded REITs and private institutional investment funds, and these competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we have.. We and our hotel managers rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business.. We and our hotel managers rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, personal identifying information, reservations, billing and operating data. We and our hotel managers purchase some of such information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend, and the hotel managers rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer information, such as individually identifiable information, including information relating to financial accounts. Although we and our hotel managers have taken steps to protect the security of its information systems and the data maintained in those systems, these safety and security measures may not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning or damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information, such as in the event of cyber attacks, which are rapidly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our or the hotel managers' information systems could interrupt our operations;. 10. Table of Contents. damage our reputation; result in misstated financial reports, violations of loan covenants and/or missed reporting deadlines; result in our inability to properly monitor our compliance with the rules and regulations regarding our qualification as a REIT; require significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that result; and subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties.. We are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor.. Our third-party hotel managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels. Although we do not directly employ or manage employees at our hotels, we are subject to the risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly at those hotels with unionized labor. From time to time, strikes, lockouts, public demonstrations or other negative actions and publicity may disrupt hotel operations. We also may incur increased legal costs and indirect labor costs as a result of contract disputes or other events. The resolution of labor disputes or new or re-negotiated labor contracts could lead to increased labor costs, either by increases in wages or benefits or by changes in work rules that raise hotel operating costs. Furthermore, labor agreements may limit the ability of the hotel managers to reduce the size of hotel workforces during an economic downturn because collective bargaining agreements are negotiated between the hotel managers and labor unions. We do not have the ability to control the outcome of these negotiations. In addition, we believe that unions are generally becoming more aggressive about organizing workers at hotels in certain locations. Potential labor activities at these hotels could significantly increase the administrative, labor and legal expenses of the third-party management companies operating these hotels and reduce the profits that we receive.. In addition, several local jurisdictions in the United States have enacted, or considered, legislation increasing the minimum wage for workers in the jurisdiction. Some of this legislation applies to hotels only. If a jurisdiction in which we own a hotel adopts such legislation, then the cost to operate the hotel may increase significantly.. Investments in hotel-related mortgage assets, including mezzanine loans, subject us to the risk of loss.. We may originate or acquire hotel-related mortgage assets, including mezzanine loans. Investments in real estate mortgages and subordinated real estate loans are subject to the risk that one or more borrowers may default and that the collateral securing mortgages may not be sufficient or, in the case of subordinated mezzanine loans, available to enable us to recover our full investment in these loans.. Property ownership through partnerships and joint ventures could limit our control of those investments.. Partnership or joint venture investments may involve risks not otherwise present for investments made solely by us, including among others, the possibility that our co-investors might become bankrupt, might at any time have goals or interests that are different from ours because of disparate tax consequences or otherwise, and may take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including our policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a REIT. Other risks of joint venture investments include an impasse on decisions, such as a sale, because neither our co-investors nor we would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. There is no limitation under our organizational documents as to the amount of funds that may be invested in partnerships or joint ventures.. Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in a limited number of financial institutions and the funds in those institutions may not be fully or federally insured.. We maintain cash balances in a limited number of financial institutions.  Our cash balances are generally in excess of federally insured limits. The failure or collapse of one or more of these financial institutions may materially adversely affect our ability to recover our cash balances.. Risks Related to Our Debt and Financing. If we cannot obtain financing, our growth will be limited.. To qualify for taxation as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% percent of our REIT taxable income each year to our shareholders and we generally expect to make distributions in excess of such amount. As a result, our ability to retain earnings to fund acquisitions, redevelopment and development or other capital expenditures is and will continue to be limited. Although our business strategy contemplates future access to debt financing (in addition to our senior unsecured credit facility) to fund acquisitions, redevelopment, development, return on investment initiatives and working capital requirements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms or at all. Events in the financial markets have adversely impacted the credit markets, and they may do so in the future, and, as a result, credit can become significantly more expensive and difficult to obtain, if available at all. Tightening credit markets may have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all, thereby increasing financing costs and/or requiring us to accept financing with increased restrictions and/or significantly higher interest rates. If adverse conditions in the credit markets materially deteriorate, our business. 11. Table of Contents. could be materially and adversely affected. Our long-term ability to grow through investments in hotel properties will be limited if we cannot obtain additional financing.. Our obligation to comply with financial covenants in our unsecured credit facilities, term loans and mortgages on some of our hotel properties could impact our operations, may require us to liquidate our properties and could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.. Unsecured credit facilities and term loans.    We have (i) a $750.0 million senior unsecured credit facility (with an accordion feature that allows us to request an increase in the total commitments of up to $1.25 billion, subject to certain terms and conditions) that matures on January 8, 2021, subject to two six-month extension options to January 8, 2022 that we may exercise pursuant to certain terms and conditions, including the payment of an extension fee, (ii) a $300.0 million unsecured term loan (with an accordion feature that allows us to request an increase in the total commitments of up to $500.0 million, subject to certain terms and conditions) that matures on January 10, 2022, and (iii) a $555.0 million unsecured term loan (with an accordion feature that allows us to request an increase in the total commitments of up to $700.0 million, subject to certain terms and conditions) that matures on January 29, 2021. In addition, LHL has a $25.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility that matures on January 10, 2021, subject to two six-month extension options to January 10, 2022 that LHL may exercise pursuant to certain terms and conditions, including the payment of an extension fee.. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries guarantee the obligations under the Company's senior unsecured credit facility and term loans. While the senior unsecured credit facility and term loans do not initially include any pledges of equity interests in the Company's subsidiaries, such pledges and additional subsidiary guarantees would be required in the event that the Company's leverage ratio later exceeds 6.50:1.00 for two consecutive fiscal quarters. In the event that such pledge and guarantee requirement is triggered, the pledges and additional guarantees would ratably benefit the Company's senior unsecured credit facility and term loans. If at any time the Company's leverage ratio falls below 6.50:1.00 for two consecutive fiscal quarters, such pledges and additional guarantees may be released.. Each of the senior unsecured credit facility, the term loans and the LHL unsecured revolving credit facility contain certain financial and other covenants, including covenants relating to net worth requirements, debt ratios and fixed charge coverage ratios. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the senior unsecured credit facility and term loans, if a default or event of default occurs and is continuing, we may be precluded from paying certain distributions or other payments to our shareholders. The senior unsecured credit facility and term loans also contain cross-default provisions that allow the lenders under the credit facility and term loans to stop future extensions of credit and/or accelerate the maturity of any outstanding principal balances under the credit facility or term loans if we are in default under certain other debt obligations, including our non-recourse secured mortgage indebtedness.. If we violate the financial covenants in our credit facilities or term loans, we could be required to repay all or a portion of our indebtedness with respect to such credit facility or term loan before maturity at a time when we might be unable to arrange financing for such repayment on attractive terms, or at all. Moreover, if we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, including at maturity of our credit facilities and term loans, we may be forced to dispose of hotel properties on disadvantageous terms, potentially resulting in losses that reduce cash flow from operating activities. Failure to comply with our financial covenants contained in our credit facilities and term loans, or our non-recourse secured mortgages described below, could result from, among other things, changes in our results of operations, the incurrence of additional debt or changes in general economic conditions.. Non-recourse secured mortgages.    In addition to our senior unsecured credit facility, our term loans and the LHL unsecured revolving credit facility, we have from time to time entered into non-recourse mortgages secured by specific hotel properties. Under the terms of these debt obligations, a lender's only remedy in the event of default is against the real property securing the mortgage, except where a borrower has, among other customary exceptions, engaged in an action constituting fraud or an intentional misrepresentation. In those cases, a lender may seek a remedy for a breach directly against the borrower, including its other assets. Westin Copley Place is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness aggregating $225.0 million as of December 31, 2017. The Hyatt Regency Boston Harbor is mortgaged to secure payment of principal and interest on bonds with an aggregate par value of $42.5 million. These mortgages contain debt service coverage tests related to the mortgaged properties. If the debt service coverage ratio for that specific property fails to exceed a threshold level specified in the mortgage, cash flows from that hotel will automatically be directed to the lender to (i) satisfy required payments, (ii) fund certain reserves required by the mortgage and (iii) fund additional cash reserves for future required payments, including final payment. Cash flows will be directed to the lender (\"cash trap\") until such time as we again become compliant with the specified debt service coverage ratio or the mortgage is paid off.. If we are unable to meet mortgage payment obligations, including the payment obligation upon maturity of the mortgage borrowing, the mortgage securing the specific property could be foreclosed upon by, or the property could be otherwise transferred to, the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income and asset value to us. We may also elect to sell the property, if we are able to sell the property, for a loss in advance of a foreclosure or other transfer. An event of default under our non-recourse secured mortgage may also constitute an event of default under our senior unsecured credit facility or term loans.. 12. Table of Contents. As of December 31, 2017, the Company is in compliance with all debt covenants, current on all loan payments and not otherwise in default under the credit facilities, term loans, bonds payable and mortgage.. Our liquidity may be reduced and our cost of debt financing may be increased because we may be unable to, or elect not to, remarket debt securities related to the Hyatt Regency Boston Harbor for which we may be liable.. We are the obligor with respect to a $37.1 million tax-exempt special project revenue bond and a $5.4 million taxable special project revenue bond, both issued by the Massachusetts Port Authority (collectively, the \"Massport Bonds\"). The Massport Bonds, which mature on March 1, 2018, bear interest based on weekly floating rates and have no principal reductions prior to their scheduled maturities. The Massport Bonds may be redeemed at any time, at our option, without penalty. U.S. Bank National Association (\"U.S. Bank\") provides the supporting letters of credit on the Massport Bonds. The letters of credit expire on March 1, 2018,  the Massport Bonds' maturity date. If we are unable to, or elect not to, issue or remarket the Massport Bonds, we would expect to rely primarily on our available cash and credit facilities to pay off the Massport Bonds. At certain times, we may hold some of the Massport Bonds that have not been successfully remarketed. Our borrowing costs under our senior unsecured credit facility may be higher than tax-exempt bond financing costs. Borrowings under the credit facilities to pay off the Massport Bonds would also reduce our liquidity to meet other obligations.. Increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense.. As of December 31, 2017, $267.5 million of aggregate indebtedness (23.8% of total indebtedness) was subject to variable interest rates, excluding amounts outstanding under our term loans since we hedged their variable interest rates to fixed interest rates. In addition, $177.5 million of the $555.0 million unsecured term loan will bear interest at its contractual floating rate when the applicable interest rate swaps expire on May 16, 2019. An increase in interest rates could increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow and may affect our ability to make distributions to shareholders and to service our indebtedness.. There is refinancing risk associated with our debt.. Our typical debt contains limited principal amortization; therefore, the vast majority of the principal must be repaid at the maturity of the loan in a so-called \"balloon payment.\" In the event that we do not have sufficient funds to repay the debt at the maturity of these loans, we will need to refinance this debt. If the credit environment is constrained at the time of our debt maturities, we would have a very difficult time refinancing debt. In addition, we locked in our fixed-rate debt at a point in time when we were able to obtain favorable interest rates, principal amortization and other terms. When we refinance our debt, prevailing interest rates and other factors may result in paying a greater amount of debt service, which will adversely affect our cash flow, and, consequently, our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. If we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced to choose from a number of unfavorable options. These options include agreeing to otherwise unfavorable financing terms on one or more of our unencumbered assets, selling one or more hotels on disadvantageous terms, including unattractive prices or defaulting on the mortgage and permitting the lender to foreclose.. Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with interest rates and could reduce the overall returns on our shareholders' investment.. We use various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks, but no hedging strategy can protect us completely. These instruments involve risks, such as the risk that the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such agreements are not legally enforceable. These instruments may also generate income that may not be treated as qualifying REIT income for purposes of the 75% or 95% REIT income tests. In addition, the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of our hedging strategies. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risk and losses. Moreover, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. We cannot provide assurance that our hedging strategy and the derivatives that we use will adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility or that our hedging transactions will not result in losses that may reduce the overall return on our shareholders' investment.. Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT. Failure to qualify as a REIT would be costly.. We have operated, and intend to continue to operate, in a manner that we believe allows us to qualify as a REIT under the Code beginning with our taxable year ended December 31, 1998.  No assurance can be given, however, that we will in fact qualify or remain qualified as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code. Our qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, shareholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. Moreover, new tax legislation, administrative guidance or court decisions, potentially applicable with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT or could increase our tax liability or reduce our operating flexibility.. 13. Table of Contents. For example, among other risks, we would fail to qualify as a REIT if:. • our hotel managers do not qualify as \"eligible independent contractors\" under the Code;. • the leases of our hotel properties to LHL are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes; or. • the Operating Partnership failed to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes (which would cause it to become subject to federal and state corporate income tax and would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including us).. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates (a maximum rate of 35% applies through 2017 and 21% for subsequent years). Moreover, unless entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we also will be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. This treatment would cause us to incur additional tax liabilities, significantly impair our ability to service indebtedness and reduce the amount of cash available to make new investments or to make distributions on our common or preferred shares.. The Operating Partnership owns 100% of the common shares of a subsidiary REIT that elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code. If our subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, then our subsidiary REIT would become subject to additional federal income tax and we could in turn fail to qualify as a REIT, unless we could avail ourselves of certain relief provisions.. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive business opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments and may limit our ability to hedge our liabilities effectively and cause us to incur tax liabilities.. To meet the tests applicable to REITs, we may be required to forego or exit investments we might otherwise make or hold.  The REIT provisions of the Code also limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. To the extent that we enter into hedging transactions (other than certain transactions to manage risk of interest rate changes, price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets), the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of gross income tests applicable to REITs. As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a TRS. This could expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear or increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRS would be subject to tax on gains.. Our ownership of TRSs involves additional regulation and tax, and our transactions with TRSs will subject us to a 100% penalty tax on certain income or deductions if the transactions are not conducted on arm's-length terms.. A REIT may own up to 100% of the stock of one or more TRSs, and a TRS may hold assets and earn income that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT. TRSs involve additional regulation, including a rule that no more than 20% (for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017) of the value of a REIT's assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs. Another rule imposes a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT not conducted on an arm's-length basis. TRSs are also subject to applicable federal, foreign, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income will be available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us.. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could increase our tax liability and reduce our operating flexibility.. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative and judicial interpretations of those laws may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation or administrative and judicial interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative or judicial interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. Any adverse laws, regulations or interpretations could increase our tax liability, reduce our operating flexibility, or negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT, or may reduce the relative attractiveness of an investment in a REIT compared to other entities and corporations not qualified as a REIT. The recently enacted tax reform bill, informally known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, made significant changes the U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to individuals and corporations, including REITs and their shareholders, and may lessen the relative competitive advantage of operating as a REIT rather than as a C corporation.  Technical corrections or other amendments to, or administrative guidance interpreting, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act may be forthcoming at any time. We cannot predict the long-term effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act or any future changes on REITs and their shareholders. Prospective shareholders are urged to consult with their tax advisors with respect to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and any other regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in our securities.. 14. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. Our organizational documents and agreements with our executives and applicable Maryland law contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent change of control transactions and may prevent shareholders from realizing a premium for their shares.. Our trustees may only be removed for cause and remaining trustees may fill board vacancies.    Our declaration of trust provides that our trustees may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of our outstanding common shares. Our declaration of trust and bylaws also provide that a majority of the remaining trustees may fill any vacancy on the Board of Trustees and that only the Board of Trustees may increase or decrease the number of persons serving on the Board of Trustees. These provisions effectively preclude shareholders from removing incumbent trustees, except for cause after a majority affirmative vote, and filling the vacancies created by such removal with their own nominees. Furthermore, we have not adopted trustee term limits or a mandatory retirement age for trustees, which may delay board rejuvenation and the rotation of trustees.. Our Board of Trustees may approve the issuance of shares with terms that may discourage a third party from acquiring the Company.    Subject to the rights of holders of outstanding preferred shares to approve the classification or issuance of any class or series of shares ranking senior to such preferred shares, our Board of Trustees has the power under the declaration of trust to classify any of our unissued preferred shares, and to reclassify any of our previously classified but unissued preferred shares from time to time, in one or more series of preferred shares, without shareholder approval. Subject to the rights of holders of outstanding preferred shares discussed above, our Board of Trustees may determine the relative rights, preferences and privileges of any class or series of preferred shares issued.  The issuance of preferred shares could adversely affect the voting power, distribution and other rights of holders of common shares and could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders.. Our declaration of trust prohibits ownership of more than 9.8% of the common shares or 9.8% of any series of preferred shares.    To qualify as a REIT under the Code, no more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or under applicable attribution rules, by five or fewer individuals (as defined to include certain entities) during the last half of each taxable year. To assist us in qualifying as a REIT, among other reasons, our declaration of trust generally prohibits direct or indirect ownership by any person of (i) more than 9.8% of the number or value (whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding common shares or (ii) more than 9.8% of the number or value (whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred shares. Generally, shares owned by affiliated owners will be aggregated for purposes of the ownership limitation. Unless the ownership limit has been waived by our Board of Trustees, any transfer of shares that would violate the ownership limitation will result in the shares that would otherwise be held in violation of the ownership limit being designated as \"shares-in-trust\" and transferred automatically to a charitable trust effective on the day before the purported transfer or other event giving rise to such excess ownership. The intended transferee will acquire no rights in such shares. Our Board of Trustees, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from the ownership limits, subject to conditions and limitations and the receipt by our Board of Trustees of certain representations and undertakings. Our Board of Trustees has granted ownership limit waivers to certain shareholders. During the time that such waivers are effective, each excepted holder will be subject to an increased ownership limit. As a condition to granting such waivers, the excepted holders were required to make representations and warranties to us, which are intended to ensure that we will continue to meet the REIT ownership requirements. If any of these representations becomes untrue or is violated, such excepted holder will lose its exemption from the ownership limits.. The Maryland Business Combination Statute applies to us.    A Maryland \"business combination\" statute contains provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an \"interested stockholder\" (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the shareholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter impose special shareholder voting requirements on these combinations.. Our Board of Trustees may choose to subject us to the Maryland Control Share Act.    A Maryland law known as the \"Maryland Control Share Act\" provides that \"control shares\" of a company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the acquiring shareholder, entitle the shareholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing trustees) acquired in a \"control share acquisition\" (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of \"control shares\") have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the company's shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. Our bylaws currently provide that we are not subject to these provisions. However, the Board of Trustees, without shareholder approval, may repeal this bylaw and cause us to become subject to the Maryland Control Share Act.. Other provisions of our organization documents may delay or prevent a change of control of the Company.    Among other provisions, our organizational documents provide that the number of trustees constituting the full Board of Trustees may be fixed only by the trustees and that a special meeting of shareholders may not be called by holders of common shares holding less than a majority of the outstanding common shares entitled to vote at such meeting.. 15. Table of Contents. Our executive officers have agreements that provide them with benefits in the event of a change in control of the Company.    We entered into agreements with our executive officers that provide them with severance benefits if their employment ends under certain circumstances within one year following a \"change in control\" of the Company (as defined in the agreements) or if the executive officer resigns for \"good reason\" (as defined in the agreements). These benefits could increase the cost to a potential acquirer of the Company and thereby prevent or deter a change in control of the Company that might involve a premium price for the common shares or otherwise be in our shareholders' best interests.. We depend on the efforts and expertise of our key executive officers and would be adversely affected by the loss of their services.. We depend on the efforts and expertise of our President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as our other executive officers, to execute our business strategy. The loss of their services, and our inability to find suitable replacements, would have an adverse effect on our business.. We may change our operational policies, investment guidelines and investment and growth strategies without shareholder approval, which may subject us to different and more significant risks in the future.. Our Board of Trustees determines our operational policies, investment guidelines and investment and growth strategies. Our Board of Trustees may make changes to, or approve transactions that deviate from, those policies, guidelines and strategies without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. This could result in us conducting operational matters, making investments or pursuing different investment or growth strategies than those contemplated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Under any of these circumstances, we may expose ourselves to different and more significant risks in the future, which could materially and adversely affect us.. A large number of shares available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and may be dilutive to current shareholders.. The sales of a substantial number of our common shares, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common shares. As of December 31, 2017, there were 200,000,000 common shares authorized under our declaration of trust, as amended, of which 113,209,392 were outstanding. Our Board of Trustees may authorize the issuance of additional authorized but unissued common shares or other authorized but unissued securities at any time, including pursuant to our 2014 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended. We also have filed a registration statement with the SEC allowing us to offer, from time to time, an indefinite amount of equity securities (including common or preferred shares) on an as-needed basis and subject to our ability to affect offerings on satisfactory terms based on prevailing conditions. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, including unsecured lines of credit and other forms of secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, including issuances of common and preferred equity. No prediction can be made about the effect that future distributions or sales of our common shares will have on the market price of our common shares.. Holders of our outstanding preferred shares have dividend, liquidation and other rights that are senior to the rights of the holders of our common shares.. Our Board of Trustees has the authority to designate and issue preferred shares with liquidation, dividend and other rights that are senior to those of our common shares. As of December 31, 2017, 4,400,000 shares of our 6.375% Series I Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares (the \"Series I Preferred Shares\") and 6,000,000 shares of our 6.3% Series J Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares (the \"Series J Preferred Shares\") were issued and outstanding. The aggregate liquidation preference with respect to the outstanding preferred shares is approximately $260.0 million, and annual dividends on our outstanding preferred shares are approximately $16.5 million. Holders of our Series I Preferred Shares and Series J Preferred Shares are entitled to cumulative dividends before any dividends may be declared or set aside on our common shares. Upon our voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, before any payment is made to holders of our common shares, holders of these preferred shares are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $25.00 per share plus any accrued and unpaid distributions. This will reduce the remaining amount of our assets, if any, available to distribute to holders of our common shares. In addition, holders of these preferred shares have the right to elect two additional trustees to our Board of Trustees whenever dividends on the preferred shares are in arrears in an aggregate amount equivalent to six or more quarterly dividends, whether or not consecutive. Because our decision to issue securities will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future preferred offerings. Thus, our shareholders bear the risk of our future securities issuances reducing the market price of our common shares and diluting their interest.. 16. Table of Contents. The market price and trading volume of our common shares may be volatile.. The market price of our common shares may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common shares may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common shares declines significantly, shareholders may be unable to resell their shares at or above the price at which they traded when they acquired them. We cannot provide assurance that the market price of our common shares will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the market price of our common shares or result in fluctuations in the market price or trading volume of our common shares include:. • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results;. • changes in our operations or earnings estimates;. • publication of research reports about us, the real estate industry or the lodging industry;. • changes in our distribution policy;. • increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our shares to demand a higher yield;. • changes in market valuations of similar companies;. • adverse market reaction to any additional equity or debt we may issue or incur in the future;. • share repurchases under the Company's share repurchase program;. • additions or departures of key management personnel;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • the realization of any of the other risk factors presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K; and. • general U.S. and worldwide market and economic conditions.. We cannot guarantee that we will repurchase shares pursuant to our share repurchase program or that our share repurchase program will enhance long-term shareholder value.. Our Board of Trustees has approved an expanded share repurchase program to acquire up to $600.0 million of our common shares (the \"Repurchase Program\"). As of December 31, 2017, we had availability under the Repurchase Program to acquire up to $569.8 million of our common shares. The Repurchase Program does not obligate us to repurchase any specific dollar amount or to acquire any specific number of shares, and all open market repurchases will be made in accordance with applicable rules and regulations setting forth certain restrictions on the method, timing, price and volume of open market share repurchases. The timing, manner, price and actual number of shares repurchased, if any, will depend on a variety of factors, including price, corporate and regulatory requirements, market conditions, and other corporate liquidity requirements and priorities. The Repurchase Program may be suspended, modified or terminated at any time for any reason without prior notice. In addition, repurchases of shares pursuant to the Repurchase Program could affect our share price and increase its volatility. The existence of the Repurchase Program could cause our share price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our shares. Additionally, the Repurchase Program could diminish our cash reserves, which may impact our ability to finance future growth and to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions. There can be no assurance that any share repurchases will enhance shareholder value because the market price of our common shares may decline below the levels at which we repurchase shares. Although the  Repurchase Program is intended to enhance long-term shareholder value, there is no assurance that it will do so and short-term share price fluctuations could reduce the effectiveness of the program."
