[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. We may be unable to attract and retain members, which could have a negative effect on our business.. The success of our business depends on our ability to attract and retain members, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our marketing efforts or that the membership levels at our centers will not decline, especially at those centers in operation for an extended period of time. All of our members can cancel their membership at any time upon providing advance notice. In addition, we experience attrition and must continually engage existing members and attract new members in order to maintain our membership levels and sales from in-center services. There are numerous factors that could lead to a decline in membership levels or sales of in-center services in mature centers or that could prevent us from increasing membership and in-center service revenue at newer centers where membership is generally not yet at a targeted capacity. These factors include changing desires and behaviors of consumers, changes in discretionary spending trends and general economic conditions, market maturity or saturation, a decline in our ability to deliver quality service at a competitive price, direct and indirect competition in our trade areas, advances in medical care that lead to less interest in health and fitness activities, and a decline in the public's interest in health and fitness as well as social fears such as terror or health threats which could reduce the desire to be in a concentrated public venue. In order to increase membership levels, we may from time to time offer lower membership rates and enrollment fees. In addition, we anticipate that most of our future centers will target higher income members than we have historically targeted. We may not be successful in optimizing price and mix or in adding new memberships in these new centers, and our growth in membership dues in these future centers may suffer as a result. Any decrease in our average dues, reduction in enrollment fees or higher membership acquisition costs may adversely impact our operating margins.. We rely heavily on our credit facility and our ability to access additional capital. If we are not able to access our credit facility, obtain additional capital or refinance existing debt, our ability to operate our business and pursue our growth strategy may be impaired.. As of December 31, 2014, we had total consolidated indebtedness of $1,200.9 million, of which $567.3 million was floating rate debt, consisting principally of obligations under term notes that are secured by certain of our properties, borrowings under our credit facility that are secured by certain personal property, mortgage notes that are secured by certain of our centers, and obligations under capital leases.. 14. Table of Contents. The credit markets generally and our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following:. • Our ability to obtain the appropriate levels of capital for working capital purposes or to finance the development and construction of new centers or acquisitions may limit our growth strategy and future business opportunities;. • A significant portion of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which increases our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations;. • We will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay the principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, including indebtedness that we may incur in the future, which may reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for our operations or to pursue our growth strategy and future business opportunities;. • A substantial decrease in our cash flows from operations or a substantial increase in our investment in new centers could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and force us to modify our operations; and. • We may be more highly leveraged than our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage including in the event of an economic downturn.. In addition to the amount of indebtedness outstanding as of December 31, 2014, we had access to an additional $448.7 million under our credit facility. We also have the ability to incur new debt, subject to limitations under our existing credit facility and in our debt financing agreements. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our leverage, including our ability to service our debt, could intensify, and we may have to change our growth strategies as a consequence.. Finally, if cash from available sources is insufficient or unavailable, or if cash is used for unanticipated needs, we may require additional capital sooner than anticipated. In the event that we are required or choose to raise additional funds, we may be unable to do so on favorable terms or at all. Furthermore, the cost of debt financing could significantly increase, making it cost prohibitive to borrow, which could force us to issue new equity securities. If we issue new equity securities, existing shareholders may experience dilution or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock.. Any inability to access our existing credit facility, to raise additional capital when required or with favorable terms, or to repay scheduled indebtedness at maturity could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results.. If we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data or to strategically implement, upgrade or consolidate existing information systems, our reputation and business could be adversely affected.. We increasingly use electronic means to interact with our customers and collect, maintain and store individually identifiable information, including, but not limited to, personal financial information and health-related information. Despite the security measures we have in place to ensure compliance with applicable laws and rules, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of cyber terrorism, vandalism or theft, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. Additionally, the collection, maintenance, use, disclosure and disposal of individually identifiable data by our businesses are regulated at the federal and state levels as well as by certain financial industry groups, such as the Payment Card Industry organization. Federal, state and financial industry groups may also consider from time to time new privacy and security requirements that may apply to our businesses. Compliance with evolving privacy and security laws, requirements, and regulations may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes, new limitations or constraints on our business models and the development of new administrative processes. They also may impose further restrictions on our collection, disclosure and use of individually identifiable information that are housed in one or more of our databases. Noncompliance with privacy laws, financial industry group requirements or a security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of personal, sensitive and/or confidential information, whether by us or by one of our vendors, could have adverse effects on our business, operations, reputation and financial condition, including decreased revenue; fines and penalties; increased financial processing fees; compensatory, statutory, punitive or other damages; adverse. 15. Table of Contents. actions against our licenses to do business; and injunctive relief whether by court or consent order. Like other large companies, we have, from time to time, experienced threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, systems failures and disruptions, none of which have had an impact on our business, results of operation or financial condition and none of which have required us to provide formal notification to any parties.. Our planned growth could place strains on our management, employees, information systems and internal controls which may adversely impact our business.. Over the past several years, we have experienced growth in our business activities and operations, including an increase in the number of our centers, development of new businesses and acquisitions of other businesses. Our past expansion has placed, and our planned accelerated future expansion may place, significant demands on our administrative, operational, financial and other resources. Any failure to manage growth effectively could seriously harm our business. To be successful, we will need to continue to implement management information systems and improve our operating, administrative, financial and accounting systems and controls. We will also need to train new employees and maintain close coordination among our executive, accounting, finance, legal, human resources, risk management, marketing, sales and operations functions. These processes are time-consuming and expensive, increase management responsibilities and divert management attention.. Our business could be adversely affected by strong competition in the highly competitive health and wellness industry.. We compete with the following industry participants: other health and fitness centers; physical fitness and recreational facilities established by non-profit organizations, governments, hospitals, and businesses; local salons, cafés and businesses offering similar ancillary services; exercise and small fitness clubs and studios and other boutique fitness offerings; racquet, tennis and other athletic clubs; amenity and condominium clubs; country clubs; online personal training and fitness coaching; the home-use fitness equipment industry; athletic event operators and related suppliers; and providers of wellness and other healthy way of life orientated products and services. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not attempt to copy our business model, or portions thereof, and that this will not erode our market share and brand recognition and impair our growth rate and profitability. Competitors, which may have greater name recognition than we have, may compete with us to attract members in our markets. Non-profit and government organizations in our markets may be able to obtain land and construct centers at a lower cost and collect membership fees without paying taxes, thereby allowing them to charge lower prices. Furthermore, due to the increased number of low cost health club and fitness center alternatives, we may face increased competition during periods if we increase our price, discretionary spending declines or unemployment remains high. This competition may limit our ability to attract and retain members.. We may incur significant costs in the development and implementation of new businesses with no guarantee of success.. In order to remain competitive and expand our business, we have developed, and expect to continue to develop, in-center and ancillary businesses. We may incur significant costs in the development of these businesses, some of which may be outside of our core competency. In addition, we cannot guarantee that these businesses will be successful and contribute to earnings.. We may be unable to successfully acquire suitable businesses or, if we do acquire them, the acquisition may disrupt our business, we may be unable to successfully integrate the business into our own, or the acquired assets may be subject to impairment, all of which may have an adverse effect on our performance.. In order to remain competitive and to expand our business, we have acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, complementary businesses and centers. In the future, we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates. If we do find suitable candidates, we may not be able to conduct effective due diligence or acquire the businesses on favorable terms or at all. We may also have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any acquisition, which could adversely affect our financial results or dilute our shareholders.. If we do acquire other businesses, integrating the business into our own may place significant demands on our administrative, operational, financial and other resources and may require significant management time, which may disrupt our other businesses. Our ability to acquire and integrate larger or more significant companies is unproven.. 16. Table of Contents. In addition, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired, or to be acquired, business into our own business or achieve any goals relating to the acquisition.. Additionally, as we have acquired other businesses, we have recorded assets, liabilities and intangible assets at fair value at the time of acquisition. If the fair value of the long-lived assets or intangible assets were determined to be lower than the carrying value, the assets would be subject to impairment, which could adversely affect our financial results.. We expect our investments in future centers in high demographic areas to be above historical average. We cannot guarantee the level of return will meet our expectations, and our financial results may be adversely affected.. As we increase our numbers of centers, our current focus is on higher demographic locations, which typically require higher costs of land, increased construction costs, and amenities and features within the new centers that represent the Life Time Athletic centers, which include the Onyx and Diamond membership plans. The higher gross invested capital at these centers will require higher operating margins and higher net income per center to produce the level of return we expect. Failure to provide this level of return could adversely affect our financial results.. If our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer leaves our company for any reason, it could have an adverse effect on our business.. Our growth and development to date have been driven by the services of Bahram Akradi, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, President, Chief Executive Officer and founder. We do not have any employment or non-competition agreement with Mr. Akradi. In addition, Mr. Akradi may be able to exert disproportionate influence over us because of the significant consequence of his departure.. If we fail to comply with any of the covenants in our financing documents, we may not be able to access our existing credit facility, and we may face an accelerated obligation to repay our indebtedness.. We have entered into several financing transactions to finance the development of our centers. Certain of the loan documents contain financial and other covenants applicable to us, and certain of these loan documents contain cross-default provisions. If we fail to comply with any of the covenants, it may cause a default under one or more of our loan documents, which could limit our ability to obtain additional financing under our existing credit facility, require us to pay higher levels of interest or accelerate our obligations to repay our indebtedness.. If we are unable to identify and acquire suitable sites for centers, our revenue growth rate and profits may be negatively impacted.. To successfully expand our business, we must identify and acquire sites that meet the site selection criteria we have established. In addition to finding sites with the right demographic and other measures we employ in our selection process, we also need to evaluate the penetration of our competitors in the market. We face significant competition for sites that meet our criteria, and as a result we may lose those sites, our competitors could copy our format or we could be forced to pay significantly higher prices for those sites. If we are unable to identify and acquire sites for new centers, our revenue growth rate and profits may be negatively impacted. Additionally, if our analysis of the suitability of a site is incorrect, we may not be able to recover our capital investment in developing and building the new center.. We may incur rising costs related to construction of new centers and maintenance of our existing centers. If we are not able to pass these cost increases through to our members, our financial results may be adversely affected.. Our centers require significant upfront and ongoing investment. If our investment is higher than we had planned, we may need to outperform our operational plan to achieve our targeted return. Over the longer term, we believe that we can offset cost increases by increasing our membership dues and other fees and improving profitability through cost efficiencies, but higher costs in regions where we are opening new centers may be difficult to offset in the short term.. We have significant operations concentrated in certain geographic areas, and any disruption in the operations of our centers in any of these areas could harm our operating results.. At March 2, 2015, we operated multiple centers in several metropolitan areas, including 23 in the Minneapolis/St. Paul market, nine in the Chicago market, eight in the Dallas market, seven in the Detroit market, six in each of the. 17. Table of Contents. Atlanta and Houston markets and five in each of the Phoenix and greater New York markets, with future planned expansion in current and new markets. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of our centers in any of these markets, whether due to technical difficulties, power failures or destruction or damage to the centers as a result of a natural disaster, fire or any other reason, could harm our operating results. In addition, our concentration in these markets increases our exposure to adverse developments related to competition, as well as economic and demographic changes in these areas.. If we cannot retain our key employees and hire additional highly qualified employees, we may not be able to successfully manage our businesses and pursue our strategic objectives.. We are highly dependent on the services of our senior management team and other key employees at both our corporate headquarters and our centers, and on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate key employees. Competition for such employees is intense, and the inability to attract and retain the additional qualified employees required to expand our activities, or the loss of current key employees, could adversely affect our operating efficiency and consolidated financial results.. The opening of new centers may negatively impact our operating margins. In addition, the opening of new centers in existing markets may negatively impact our same-center revenues.. A result of opening new centers is that our center operating margins may be lower than they have been historically while the centers build membership base. We expect both the addition of pre-opening expenses and the lower revenue volumes characteristic of newly opened centers to affect our center operating margins at these new centers. We also expect certain operating costs, particularly those related to occupancy, to be higher than in the past in some newly entered geographic regions. As a result of the impact of these rising costs, our total center contribution and operating margins may be lower in future periods than they have been in the past.. We currently operate centers in 25 states and one Canadian province. We plan to open six new large format centers in 2015, three of which are in existing markets. Opening new centers in existing markets may attract some memberships away from other centers in those markets, thereby leading to diminished revenue and profitability. In addition, as a result of new center openings in existing markets, and because older centers will represent an increasing proportion of our center base over time, our same-center revenue increases may be lower in future periods than in the past.. Delays in new center openings could have an adverse effect on our growth.. In order to meet our objectives, it is important that we open new centers on schedule. A significant amount of time and expenditure of capital is required to develop and construct new centers. If we are significantly delayed in opening new centers, our competitors may be able to open new clubs in the same market before we open our centers or improve centers currently open. This change in the competitive landscape could negatively impact our pre-opening sales of memberships and increase our investment costs. In addition, delays in opening new centers could hurt our ability to meet our growth objectives. Our ability to open new centers on schedule depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include:. • obtaining acceptable financing for construction of new sites;. • obtaining entitlements, permits and licenses necessary to complete construction of the new center on schedule;. • recruiting, training and retaining qualified employees;. • securing access to labor and materials necessary to develop and construct our centers;. • delays due to material shortages, labor issues, weather conditions or other acts of God, discovery of contaminants, accidents, deaths or injunctions; and. • general economic conditions.. 18. Table of Contents. We could be subject to claims related to construction or operation of our centers and off-premises activities and events which could have a negative effect on our financial conditions and results of operations.. Use of our centers and participation in off-premises activities and events pose potential health or safety risks to members or guests through exertion and use of our equipment, swimming pools, rock climbing walls, waterslides, endurance events and other facilities and services. Claims may be asserted against us for injury or death suffered by someone using our facilities, services, activities and events, including a minor child. We could also face claims in connection with our construction and remodel of our centers. While we carry insurance generally applicable to such claims, we face exposure for losses within any self-insured retention or for uninsured damages.. We could also face claims for economic or other damages by members, guests or employees, including consumer protection, wage and hour, health club contract, or other statutory or common law claims arising from our business operations. Such claims may be uninsured.. We are subject to extensive government regulation, and changes in these regulations could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations, including but not limited to the following:. • federal and state consumer protection laws related to the advertising, marketing and sale of our products and services;. • state statutes that regulate the sale and terms of our membership contracts;. • state and local health or safety regulations related to various center operations, such as child centers, LifeCafe, LifeSpa or Aquatics;. • federal and state regulation of ancillary health and fitness-related products and services;. • state licensing or other regulation of our service providers, such as cosmetologists, massage therapists and registered dietitians;. • federal and state laws and regulations governing privacy and security of information; and. • federal and state wage and hour or other employment related laws and regulations.. Any changes in such laws or regulations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We could be subject to claims related to our ancillary health and fitness-related offerings, and the value of our brand may suffer.. We offer directly or through third parties a variety of ancillary health and fitness-related products and services, such as nutritional products, blood screenings and other fitness assessments, chiropractic services, and medi-spa services. These products and services are, or may be subject to, legal and regulatory requirements. We cannot assure you that there will be no claims against us regarding the ingredients in, manufacture of or results of using our nutritional products, or any claims against us regarding our provision of other health and fitness-related services or our relationships with third parties. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any rights we have under indemnification provisions and/or insurance policies will be sufficient to cover any losses that might result from such claims. Any publicity surrounding such claims may negatively impact the value of our brand.. If it becomes necessary to protect or defend our intellectual property rights or if we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, we may become involved in costly litigation or be required to pay royalties or fees.. We may have disputes with third parties to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trademarks, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend ourselves from claims of infringement, invalidity or unenforceability. We may incur substantial costs and a diversion of resources as a result of such disputes, even if we win. In the event that we do not win, we may have to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, we may be prevented from using the marks within certain markets in connection with goods and services that are material to our. 19. Table of Contents. business or we may be unable to prevent a third party from using our marks. We cannot assure you that we would be able to reach an agreement on reasonable terms, if at all. In particular, although we own a federal trademark registration for use of the LIFE TIME FITNESS® mark in the field of health and fitness centers, we are aware of entities in certain locations around the country that use LIFE TIME FITNESS, LIFE TIME or other similar marks in connection with goods and services related to health and fitness. The rights of these entities in such marks may predate our rights. Accordingly, if we open any centers in the areas in which these parties operate, we may be required to pay royalties or may be prevented from using the mark in such areas."
