[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The following risks comprise the material risks of which we are aware. If any of the events or developments described below actually occurred, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer.. Difficult market conditions can adversely affect our business in many ways, including by reducing the volume of transactions involving our Financial Advisory business and reducing the value or performance of the assets we manage in our Asset Management business, which, in each case, could materially reduce our revenue or income and adversely affect our financial position.. As a financial services firm, our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world. Unfavorable economic and market conditions can adversely affect our financial performance in both the Financial Advisory and Asset Management businesses. The future market and economic climate may deteriorate because of many factors, such as a general slowing of economic growth globally or regionally, periods of disruption or volatility in securities markets, volatility and tightening of liquidity in credit markets, volatility or significant realignments in currency markets, increases in interest rates, inflation, corporate or sovereign defaults, natural disasters, terrorism or political uncertainty.. For example, revenue generated by our Financial Advisory business is directly related to the volume and value of the transactions in which we are involved. During periods of unfavorable or uncertain market or economic conditions, the volume and value of M&A transactions may decrease, thereby reducing the demand for our Financial Advisory services and increasing price competition among financial services companies seeking such engagements. Our results of operations would be adversely affected by any such reduction in the volume or value of M&A transactions. In addition, our profitability would be adversely affected due to our fixed costs and the possibility that we would be unable to reduce our variable costs without reducing revenue or within a timeframe sufficient to offset any decreases in revenue relating to changes in market and economic conditions.. Within our Financial Advisory business, we have typically seen that, during periods of economic strength and growth, our Mergers and Acquisitions practice historically has been more active and our Restructuring practice has been less active. Conversely, during periods of economic weakness and contraction, we typically have seen that our Restructuring practice has been more active and our Mergers and Acquisitions practice has been less active. As a. 14. result, revenue from our Restructuring practice has tended to correlate negatively to our revenue from our Mergers and Acquisitions practice over the course of business cycles. These trends are cyclical in nature and subject to periodic reversal. However, these trends do not cancel out the impact of economic conditions in our Financial Advisory business, which may be adversely affected by a downturn in economic conditions leading to decreased Mergers and Acquisitions practice activity, notwithstanding improvements in our Restructuring practice. Moreover, revenue improvements in our Mergers and Acquisitions practice in strong economic conditions could be offset in whole or in part by any related revenue declines in our Restructuring practice. While we generally have experienced a counter-cyclical relationship between our Mergers and Acquisitions practice and our Restructuring practice, this relationship may not continue in the future, and there is no certainty that strength in one practice will offset weakness in the other.. Our Asset Management business also would be expected to generate lower revenue in a market or general economic downturn. Under our Asset Management business's arrangements, investment advisory fees we receive typically are based on the market value of AUM. Accordingly, a decline in the prices of securities, or in specific geographic markets or sectors that constitute a significant portion of our AUM (e.g., our emerging markets strategies), would be expected to cause our revenue and income to decline by causing:. •  the value of our AUM to decrease, which would result in lower investment advisory fees;. •  some of our clients to withdraw funds from our Asset Management business due to the uncertainty or volatility in the market, or in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity or lower risk, which would also result in lower investment advisory fees;. •  some of our clients or prospective clients to hesitate in allocating assets to our Asset Management business due to the uncertainty or volatility in the market, which would also result in lower investment advisory fees; or. •  negative absolute performance returns for some accounts which have performance-based incentive fees, which would result in a reduction of revenue from such fees.. If our Asset Management revenue declines without a commensurate reduction in our expenses, our net income would be reduced. In addition, in the event of a market or general economic downturn, our alternative investment and private equity practices also may be impacted by a difficult fund raising environment and reduced exit opportunities in which to realize the value of their investments. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may also affect the levels of our AUM and our investment advisory fees. See \"Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could reduce our stockholders' equity and net income or negatively impact the portfolios of our Asset Management clients and may affect the levels of our AUM\" below.. Due to the nature of our business, financial results could differ significantly from period to period, which may make it difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis.. We experience significant fluctuations in quarterly revenue and profits. These fluctuations generally can be attributed to the fact that we earn a substantial portion of our Financial Advisory revenue upon the successful completion of a transaction or a restructuring, the timing of which is uncertain and is not subject to our control. As a result, our Financial Advisory business is highly dependent on market conditions and the decisions and actions of our clients, interested third parties and governmental authorities. For example, a client or counterparty could delay or terminate an acquisition transaction because of a failure to agree upon final terms, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or board of directors, or acquirer's or stockholder approval, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or because the seller's business is experiencing unexpected operating or financial problems. Anticipated bidders for assets of a client during a restructuring transaction may not materialize or our client may not be able to restructure its operations or indebtedness, for example, due to a failure to reach agreement with its principal creditors. In addition, a bankruptcy court may deny our right to collect a \"success\" or \"completion\" fee. In these circumstances, other than in engagements where we receive monthly retainers, we often do not receive any advisory fees other than the reimbursement of certain expenses, despite the fact that we devote resources to these transactions. Accordingly, the failure of one or more transactions to close either as anticipated or at all could cause significant fluctuations in quarterly revenue and profits and could materially adversely affect our. 15. business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\".. In addition, our Asset Management revenue is particularly sensitive to fluctuations in our AUM. Asset Management fees are predominantly based on the daily, monthly or quarterly average AUM. As a result, a reduction in AUM at the end of a day, quarter or month (as a result of market depreciation, withdrawals, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or otherwise) will result in a decrease in management fees. Similarly, the timing of flows, contributions and withdrawals are often out of our control and may be inconsistent from quarter to quarter. Incentive fees are driven by investment performance (either absolute performance or relative to an established benchmark), which is directly impacted by market movements, and may therefore fluctuate from period to period.. As a result of such fluctuations, it may be difficult for us to achieve steady revenue and earnings growth on a quarterly basis.. Our ability to retain our managing directors and other key professional employees is critical to the success of our business, including maintaining compensation levels at an appropriate level of costs, and failure to do so may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. Our people are our most important asset. We must retain the services of our managing directors and other key professional employees, and strategically recruit and hire new talented employees, to obtain and successfully execute the Financial Advisory and Asset Management engagements that generate substantially all of our revenue.. In general, our industry continues to experience change and be subject to significant competitive pressures with respect to the retention of top talent, which makes it more difficult for us to retain professionals. Loss of key employees may occur due to perceived opportunity for promotion, compensation levels, work environment, retirement or the pursuit of philanthropic, civic or similar service opportunities, or other individual reasons, some of which may be beyond our control. If managing directors and other key professional employees were to retire, join an existing competitor, form a competing company or otherwise leave us, we could need to replace them, and some of our clients could eventually choose to use the services of that competitor or some other competitor instead of our services. In any such event, our investment banking fees, asset management fees or AUM could decline. The employment arrangements, non-competition agreements and retention agreements we have or will enter into with our managing directors and other key professional employees may not sufficiently prevent our managing directors and other key professional employees from resigning from practice or competing against us. In addition, these arrangements and agreements have a limited duration and expire after a certain period of time. We continue to be subject to intense competition in the financial services industry regarding the recruitment and retention of key professionals, and have experienced departures from and added to our professional ranks as a result.. Certain changes to our employee compensation arrangements may result in increased compensation and benefits expense. In addition, any changes to the mix of cash and deferred incentive compensation granted to our employees may affect certain financial measures applicable to our business, including ratios of compensation and benefits expense to revenue, and may result in the issuance of increased levels of Lazard Ltd's Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share (\"Class A common stock\"), to our employees upon vesting of restricted stock units (\"RSUs\"), performance-based restricted stock units (\"PRSUs\") or restricted stock awards in a particular year. Our compensation levels, results of operations and financial position may be significantly affected by many factors, including general economic and market conditions, our operating and financial performance, staffing levels and competitive pay conditions.. The financial services industry, and all of the businesses in which we compete, are intensely competitive.. The financial services industry is intensely competitive, and we expect it to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of our advice, our employees and transaction execution, the range and price of our products and services, our innovation and our reputation. We have experienced intense fee competition in some of our businesses in recent years, and we believe that we may experience pricing pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain increased market share by reducing fees.. 16. A number of factors increase the competitive risks of our Financial Advisory and Asset Management businesses:. •  there are relatively few barriers to entry impeding the launch of new asset management and financial advisory firms, including a relatively low cost of entering these businesses, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our lines of business, including major banks and other financial institutions, have resulted in increased competition;. •  other industry participants will from time to time seek to recruit our employees away from us in order to compete in our lines of business; and. •  certain of our practices and products are newly established and relatively small.. In addition, many of our competitors have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage, asset management and investment banking services, which may enhance their competitive position. They may also have the ability to support investment banking, including financial advisory services, with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services in an effort to gain market share, which could result in pricing pressure in our businesses.. Competitive pressure could adversely affect our ability to attract new or retain existing clients, make successful investments, retain our people or maintain AUM, any of which would adversely affect our revenue and earnings.. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from Financial Advisory fees, which are not long-term contracted sources of revenue and are subject to intense competition, and declines in our Financial Advisory engagements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We historically have earned a substantial portion of our revenue from advisory fees paid to us by our Financial Advisory clients, which usually are payable upon the successful completion of a particular transaction or restructuring. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2017, Financial Advisory services accounted for approximately 52% of our consolidated net revenue. We expect that we will continue to rely on Financial Advisory fees for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future, and a decline in our advisory engagements or the market for advisory services would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we operate in a highly competitive environment where typically there are no long-term contracted sources of revenue. Each revenue-generating engagement typically is separately awarded and negotiated. Furthermore, many businesses do not routinely engage in transactions requiring our services and, as a consequence, our fee paying engagements with many clients are not likely to be predictable. We also lose clients each year, including as a result of the sale or merger of a client, a change in a client's senior management and competition from other financial advisors and financial institutions. As a result, our engagements with clients are constantly changing and our Financial Advisory fees could decline quickly due to the factors discussed above.. If the number of debt defaults, bankruptcies or other factors affecting demand for our Restructuring services declines, our Restructuring revenue could suffer.. We provide various restructuring and restructuring-related advice to companies in financial distress or to their creditors or other stakeholders. Historically, the fees from restructuring-related services have been a significant part of our Financial Advisory revenue. A number of factors could affect demand for these advisory services, including improving general economic conditions, the availability and cost of debt and equity financing and changes to laws, rules and regulations, including those that protect creditors, and the deregulation or privatization of particular industries.. Potential underwriting and trading activities may expose us to risk.. In 2014, we took steps that have enabled us to act as an underwriter in public offerings and other distributions of securities in order to buttress our Financial Advisory business. If we act as an underwriter, we may incur losses. 17. and be subject to reputational harm to the extent that, for any reason, we are unable to sell securities we purchased as an underwriter at the anticipated price levels. In addition, if we act as an underwriter, we may also be subject to liability for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other offering documents relating to offerings we underwrite. In such cases, any indemnification provisions in the applicable underwriting agreement may not be available to us or may not be sufficient to protect us against losses arising from such liability. Operational risk in connection with any offering we underwrite could arise in the form of errors, deficiencies or noncompliance and also could expose us to risk. In addition, indemnification provisions in our agreement with our clearing organization, customer trading and other activities may expose us to off-balance sheet credit risk. Securities may have to be purchased or sold at prevailing market prices in the event a customer fails to settle a trade on its original terms. We seek to manage the risks associated with underwriting and customer trading activities through screening, internal review and trading procedures and processes, but such procedures and processes may not be effective in all cases.. Our investment style in our Asset Management business, including the mix of asset classes and investment strategies comprising our AUM, may underperform or generate less demand than other investment approaches, which may result in significant client or asset departures, or a reduction in AUM.. Even when securities prices are rising generally, performance can be affected by investment style and mix of asset classes. For example, many of the equity investment strategies in our Asset Management business share a common investment orientation towards relative value investing. We believe this style tends to outperform the market in some market environments and underperform it in others. In particular, a prolonged growth environment may cause some of our investment strategies to go out of favor with some clients, advisors, consultants or third-party intermediaries. In addition, all of our investment strategies are actively managed strategies which seek to outperform relative to a benchmark or generate an absolute return.  Management fees for actively managed strategies tend to be higher than those charged for passively managed strategies. The perception that actively managed strategies have, on average, underperformed relative to passively managed strategies over time, combined with greater pressure on clients to acquire asset management services at lower costs, has contributed to increased trends toward passively managed investment strategies. This, in turn, may adversely affect demand for our strategies or result in fee pressure on our business overall. In combination with poor performance relative to peers, changes in personnel, challenging market environments or other difficulties, the underperformance of our investment style may result in significant client or asset departures or a reduction in AUM.. We could lose clients and suffer a decline in our Asset Management revenue and earnings if the investments we choose in our Asset Management business perform poorly, regardless of overall trends in the prices of securities.. Investment performance affects our AUM relating to existing clients and is one of the most important factors in retaining clients and competing for new Asset Management business. Poor investment performance could impair our revenue and growth because:. •  existing clients might withdraw funds from our Asset Management business in favor of better performing products, which would result in lower investment advisory fees;. •  our incentive fees, which provide us with a set percentage of returns on some alternative investment and private equity funds and other accounts, would decline;. •  third-party financial intermediaries, rating services, advisors or consultants may rate our products poorly, which may result in client withdrawals and reduced asset flows; or. •  firms with which we have strategic alliances may terminate such relationships with us, and future strategic alliances may be unavailable.. Over certain time periods, we may have a higher concentration of assets in certain strategies. To the extent that this is the case, underperformance, changes in investment personnel or other changes in these strategies, as well as changes in a variety of macroeconomic and other factors, may result in a withdrawal of assets. If a significant amount of clients withdraw from these strategies for any reason, our revenues would decline and our operating results would be adversely affected.. 18. Because many of our Asset Management clients can remove the assets we manage on short notice, we may experience unexpected declines in revenue and profitability.. Our investment advisory contracts are generally terminable upon very short notice. Institutional and individual clients, and firms with which we have strategic alliances, can terminate their relationship with us, reduce the aggregate amount of AUM or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for a number of reasons, including investment performance, departures from or changes to the teams that manage our investment products, or changes in prevailing interest rates and financial market performance. Poor performance relative to other investment management firms tends to result in decreased investments in our investment products, increased redemptions of our investment products, and the loss of institutional or individual accounts or strategic alliances. In addition, the ability to terminate relationships may allow clients to renegotiate for lower fees paid for asset management services.. In addition, in the U.S., as required by the Investment Company Act, each of our investment advisory contracts with the mutual funds we advise or subadvise automatically terminates upon its \"assignment.\" Each of our other investment advisory contracts subject to the provisions of the Investment Advisers Act provide, as required by the Investment Advisers Act, that the contract may not be \"assigned\" without the consent of the customer. A sale of a sufficiently large block of shares of our voting securities or other transactions could be deemed an \"assignment\" in certain circumstances. An assignment, actual or constructive, would trigger these termination provisions and could adversely affect our ability to continue managing client accounts.. Access to clients through intermediaries and consultants is important to our Asset Management business, and reductions in referrals from such intermediaries or consultants or poor reviews of our products or our organization by such intermediaries or consultants could materially reduce our revenue and impair our ability to attract new clients.. Our ability to market our Asset Management services relies in part on receiving mandates from the client base of national and regional securities firms, banks, insurance companies, defined contribution plan administrators, investment consultants and other intermediaries. To an increasing extent, our Asset Management business uses referrals from accountants, lawyers, financial planners and other professional advisors. The inability to have this access could materially adversely affect our Asset Management business. In addition, many of these intermediaries and consultants review and evaluate our products and our organization. Poor reviews or evaluations of either the particular product or of us may result in client withdrawals or an inability to attract new assets through such intermediaries or consultants.. Our Asset Management business relies on non-affiliated third-party service providers.. Our Asset Management business has entered into service agreements with third-party service providers for client order management and the execution and settlement of client securities transactions. This business faces the risk of operational failure of any of our clearing agents, the exchanges, clearing houses or other intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. We oversee and manage these relationships. Poor oversight and control or inferior performance or service on the part of the service provider could result in loss of customers and violations of applicable rules and regulations. Any such failure could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions and to manage our exposure to risk.. Our results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in the fair value of positions held in our investment portfolios.. We invest capital in various types of equity and debt securities in order to seed equity, debt and alternative investment funds, and for general corporate purposes. Such investments are subject to market fluctuations due to changes in the market prices of securities, interest rates or other market factors, such as liquidity. While we may seek to hedge the market risk for some of these investments, an effective hedge may not be available, and if available, may not be fully effective. These investments are adjusted for accounting purposes to fair value at the end of each quarter regardless of our intended holding period, with any related gains or losses reflected in our results of operations, and therefore may increase the volatility of our earnings, even though such gains or losses may not be realized.. 19. We have investments, primarily through our private equity businesses, in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets, and we may lose some or all of the principal amount of these investments or fail to realize any profits from these investments for a considerable period of time.. We have made, and in the future may make, principal investments in public or private companies or in alternative investments (including private equity funds) established by us, and we continue to hold principal investments directly or through funds managed by certain affiliates of Lazard, including Edgewater, as well as third parties. Making principal investments is risky, and we may lose some or all of the principal amount of our investments. Certain of these types of investments may be in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets. Because it may take several years before attractive alternative investment opportunities are identified, some or all of the capital committed by us to these funds is likely to be invested in government securities, other short-term, highly rated debt securities and money market funds that traditionally have offered investors relatively lower returns. In addition, these investments may be adjusted for accounting purposes to fair value at the end of each quarter, and any related gains or losses would affect our results of operations and could increase the volatility of our earnings, even though such fair value fluctuations may have no cash impact. It takes a substantial period of time to identify attractive alternative investment opportunities, to raise all the funds needed to make an investment and then to realize the cash value of an investment through resale. Even if an alternative investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash or other proceeds.. Our revenue from our private equity business is derived primarily from management fees, which are calculated as a percentage of committed capital or invested capital depending on the stage of each respective fund. Transaction and advisory fees may also be earned. Incentive fees are earned if investments are profitable over a specified threshold. Our ability to form new alternative investment funds is subject to a number of uncertainties, including past performance of our funds, market or economic conditions, competition from other fund managers and the ability to negotiate terms with major investors.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could reduce our stockholders' equity and net income or negatively impact the portfolios of our Asset Management clients and may affect the levels of our AUM.. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies, including through advisory fees paid to our Financial Advisory business and management fees paid to our Asset Management business. Our financial statements are denominated in U.S. Dollars and, for the year ended December 31, 2017, we received approximately 38% of our consolidated net revenue in other currencies, predominantly in Euros, British Pounds and Australian Dollars. In addition, we pay a significant amount of our expenses in such other currencies. The exchange rates of these currencies versus the U.S. Dollar affect the carrying value of our assets and liabilities as well as our revenues, expenses and net income. We do not generally hedge such foreign currency exchange rate exposure arising in our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may also make period to period comparisons of our results of operations difficult.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates also can impact the portfolios of our Asset Management clients. Client portfolios are invested in securities across the globe, although most portfolios are funded in a single base currency. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations can adversely impact investment performance for a client's portfolio and also may affect the levels of our AUM. As our AUM include significant assets that are denominated in currencies other than U.S. Dollars, an increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to non-U.S. currencies, with all other factors held constant, generally would result in a decrease in the dollar value of our AUM, which, in turn, would result in lower U.S. Dollar-denominated revenue in our Asset Management business. As of December 31, 2017, AUM with foreign currency exposure represented approximately 74% of our total AUM.. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the impact on stockholders' equity from currency translation adjustments and Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the impact on operating results from currency transaction adjustments.. 20. Extensive regulation of our businesses limits our activities and results in ongoing exposure to the potential for significant penalties, including fines or limitations on our ability to conduct our businesses.. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation. We are subject to regulation by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. Many of these regulators, including U.S. and non-U.S. government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the U.S., are empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer from registration or membership. The requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through net capital, customer protection and market conduct requirements.. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extended investigation and surveillance activity, adoption of costly or restrictive new regulations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. Among other things, we could be fined or be prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities. In addition, the regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to modification and further regulation. Such changes may increase the expenses that we incur without necessarily leading to commensurate increases in operating revenue and income. Certain laws and regulations within the U.S. and externally include extraterritorial application that may lead to overlapping or conflicting legal and regulatory burdens with additional risks and implementation expenses. New laws or regulations or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to us and our clients also may adversely affect our business, and our ability to function in this environment will depend on our ability to constantly monitor and react to these changes.. The U.S. and other governments and institutions have taken actions, and may in the future take further actions, in response to disruption and volatility in the global financial markets. Such further actions could include expanding current or enacting new standards, requirements and rules that may be applicable to us and our subsidiaries. The effect of any such expanded or new standards, requirements and rules is uncertain and could have adverse consequences to our business and results of operations. For example, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law, bringing sweeping changes in the regulation of financial institutions. Rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act is still ongoing and the final scope and interpretations of those rules, and their impact on our business, though still not fully known, could have implications for the manner in which we conduct our business and, consequently, its profitability. In recent years, changes include requiring that certain financial instruments be cleared by a regulated clearing organization and the requirement to deliver margin payments for certain derivative transactions. These changes have required adjustments to our operational processes as a result, which may impact certain strategies and businesses. While we continue to examine the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations, as well as new regulations that may become applicable to us in the U.S. and in the European Union (see \"Business - Regulation\"), and previously announced actual or potential regulations that may be modified, we are not able to predict the ultimate effect on us. In addition, several states and municipalities in the United States have adopted \"pay-to-play\" rules, which could limit our ability to charge fees in connection with certain of our Private Capital Advisory engagements, and could therefore affect the profitability of that portion of our business.. The regulatory environment in which our clients operate may also impact our business. For example, changes in antitrust laws or the enforcement of antitrust laws could affect the level of M&A activity and changes in state laws may limit investment activities of state pension plans. In addition, many tax laws and regulations have been modified, or are otherwise under review, in the U.S. and in many other jurisdictions in which we and our clients operate. Actual and proposed changes to these laws and regulations may affect the level of M&A activity, including cross-border M&A activity.. For asset management businesses in general, there have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees of asset management firms, as well as industry-wide regulatory inquiries. These cases and inquiries have resulted in increased scrutiny in the industry and may result in new rules and regulations for mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity funds and their investment managers. This regulatory scrutiny and these rulemaking initiatives may result in an increase in operational and compliance costs or the risk of assessment of significant fines or penalties against our Asset Management business, and may otherwise limit our ability to engage in certain activities.. 21. Specific regulatory changes also may have a direct impact on the revenue of our Asset Management business. In addition to regulatory scrutiny and potential fines and sanctions, regulators continue to examine different aspects of the asset management industry. For example, the use of \"soft dollars,\" where a portion of commissions paid to broker-dealers in connection with the execution of trades also pays for research and other services provided to advisors, has been reexamined by different regulatory bodies and may in the future be limited or modified. In particular, the enactment of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II (\"MiFID II\"), regulates the use of soft dollars for certain parts of our business. Although a substantial portion of the research relied on by our Asset Management business in the investment decision-making process is generated internally by our investment analysts, external research, including external research paid for with soft dollars, is important to the process. This external research generally is used for information gathering or verification purposes, and includes broker-provided research, as well as third-party provided databases and research services. As a result of MiFID II, our European Union and U.K. Asset Management subsidiaries intend to pay directly for broker research services (instead of utilizing commissions to pay for such services) with respect to certain client accounts managed by these offices. The ultimate impact of MiFID II on our Asset Management business and on the financial industry as a whole remains uncertain, although it has reduced our ability to utilize commissions to pay for research services and other soft dollar services for European-based businesses. Similar pressures may come from other markets around the globe, which may further increase costs related to those research services. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our Asset Management business obtained research and other services through third-party soft dollar arrangements, the total cost of which we estimate to be approximately $24 million.. In addition, new regulations affecting the asset management business, including those regarding the management of U.S. mutual funds, hedge funds, UCITs funds and the use of certain investment products may impact our Asset Management business and result in increased costs. For example, the European Union has adopted updated directives on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (\"UCITS V\") with respect to various subjects. Among other things, UCITS V establishes remunerations policies which impact the structure of compensation for certain portfolio managers and other personnel within the Company.  UCITS V also establishes certain regulations governing oversight and independence of depository functions. While these rules have already been implemented, they could further impact our personnel or result in changes to our operations, resulting in increased costs to the business.  In addition, many regulators around the world, including those in the U.S., continue to adopt disclosure requirements impacting the asset management business, as well as changes to the laws, rules and regulations relating to recordkeeping and reporting obligations.. Legislators and regulators around the world continue to explore changes to, and additional oversight of, the financial industry generally. The impact of the potential changes on us are uncertain and may result in an increase in costs or a reduction of revenue associated with our businesses.. See \"Business - Regulation\" above for a further discussion of the regulatory environment in which we conduct our businesses.. The financial services industry faces substantial litigation and regulatory risks, and we may face damage to our professional reputation and legal liability if our services are not regarded as satisfactory or if conflicts of interest should arise.. As a financial services firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients. As a result, if a client is not satisfied with our services, such dissatisfaction may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses. Moreover, our role as advisor to our clients on important transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including, if appropriate, rendering \"fairness opinions\" in connection with mergers and other transactions. Our role as advisor to our sovereign and government clients in particular may occasionally result in increased publicity of our involvement with, and our advice to, such clients.. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial advisors has been increasing. The activities of our Financial Advisory business may subject us to the risk of significant legal actions by our clients and third parties, including our clients' stockholders, under securities or other laws. Such legal actions may include allegations relating to aiding and abetting breaches of. 22. fiduciary duties and to materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities and other transactions. We may also be exposed to potential liability for the fairness opinions and other advice provided to participants in corporate transactions. In our Asset Management business, we make investment decisions on behalf of our clients which could result in substantial losses. Many of our business activities may subject us to the risk of legal actions alleging negligence, misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty or breach of contract.. We increasingly confront actual and potential conflicts of interest relating to our Financial Advisory business, as well as to the fact that we have both a Financial Advisory business and an Asset Management business. It is possible that actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest could give rise to client dissatisfaction, litigation or regulatory enforcement actions, which could have the effect of limiting our business opportunities. Appropriately identifying and managing actual or perceived conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest. We have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts of interest. However, these policies, controls and procedures may not be adhered to by our employees or be effective in reducing the applicable risks. Any failure of, or failure to adhere to, these policies, controls and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. We may also face competition from time to time from other financial services firms that do not operate under similar policies, controls and procedures.. Our Financial Advisory engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be available or adhered to in all cases. We also are subject to claims arising from disputes with employees for alleged wrongful termination, discrimination or harassment, among other things. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time.. We may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation or regulatory action against us. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations and cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business.. Employee misconduct, which is difficult to detect and deter, could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subjecting us to significant legal liability and reputational harm.. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry generally, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur in our business as well. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in legal action, regulatory sanctions and reputational or financial harm. Our Financial Advisory business often requires that we deal with confidences of great significance to our clients or their counterparties, improper use of which may harm our clients or our relationships with our clients. Any breach of confidences as a result of employee misconduct may adversely affect our reputation, impair our ability to attract and retain Financial Advisory clients and subject us to liability. Similarly, in our Asset Management business, we have authority over client assets, and we may, from time to time, have custody of such assets. In addition, we often have discretion to trade client assets on the client's behalf and must do so acting in the best interests of the client. As a result, we are subject to a number of obligations and standards, and the violation of those obligations or standards may adversely affect our clients and us. It is difficult to detect and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases.. In recent years, the U.S. Department of Justice and the SEC have also devoted greater resources to the enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In addition, the United Kingdom, France and other jurisdictions have expanded the reach of their anti-bribery laws. While we have developed and implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with anti-bribery and other laws, such policies and procedures may not be effective in all instances to prevent violations. Any determination that we have violated these laws could subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, profit disgorgement, injunction against future conduct, securities litigation and reputational damage, any one of which could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.. 23. A failure in or breach of our information systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, lead to reputational harm and legal liability or otherwise impact our ability to operate our business.. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information involving our computer systems, hardware, software and networks, which we refer to as information systems, and involving the information systems of third parties with which we do business. Such information systems, which frequently include \"cloud\"-based networks and services, may be subject to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code or other threats that are constantly evolving and that could have a security impact on us. There can be no assurance that we will not suffer material losses relating to cyber attacks on, or other security breaches involving, our information systems, despite taking protective measures to prevent such breaches. The increased use of mobile technologies can heighten these and other operational risks. If a successful cyber attack or other security breach were to occur, our confidential or proprietary information, or the confidential or proprietary information of our clients or their counterparties, that is stored in, or transmitted through, such information systems could be compromised or misappropriated. Any such cyber attack or other security breach, or any disruption of or failure in the physical or logical infrastructure or operating systems that support such information systems or our businesses, could significantly impact our ability to operate our businesses and could result in reputational damage, legal liability, the loss of clients or business opportunities and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. As cyber threats continue to multiply, become more sophisticated and threaten additional aspects of our businesses, we may also be required to expend additional resources on information security and compliance costs in order to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities or other exposures.. Other operational risks may disrupt our businesses, result in regulatory action against us or limit our growth.. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems, including those of our vendors. Any failure or interruption of these systems, whether caused by fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, act of terrorism or war, system modification or upgrade, or otherwise, could materially adversely affect our business. Although back-up systems are in place, our back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of a failure or interruption may not be adequate.. Particularly in our Asset Management business, we rely heavily on our financial, accounting, trading, compliance and other data processing systems, and those of our third party vendors or service providers who support these functions. We expect that we will need to review whether to continue to upgrade and expand the capabilities of these systems in the future to avoid disruption of, or constraints on, our operations, and any such system upgrades or expansions could result in significant costs to us. Certain investment teams within our Asset Management business employ proprietary systems, including quantitative models, in connection with their investment processes. These systems and models are often designed and, with assistance from technology personnel, maintained by employees who are members of those investment teams. If any of the foregoing systems fail to operate properly or are disabled, including for reasons beyond our control, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. The inability of our systems (or those of our vendors or service providers) to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions also could constrain our ability to expand our businesses. In addition, errors resulting from these issues or from human error when conducting a trade or other transaction could expose us to significant risk.. In addition, if we were to experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic or other man-made or natural disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel and office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunications, transaction processing and other related systems and operations, as well as those of third parties on whom we rely. Such events could lead us to experience operational challenges, and our inability to successfully recover could materially disrupt our businesses and cause material financial loss, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability.. For additional information regarding operational risks with respect to our businesses, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Operational Risk\" below.. 24. The soundness of third parties, including our clients, as well as financial, governmental and other institutions, could adversely affect us.. We have exposure to many different industries, institutions, products and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us, if any, cannot be fully realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could materially adversely affect our business.. We have documented and tested our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors regarding our internal control over financial reporting. We are in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as of December 31, 2017. However, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could materially adversely affect our business.. We may pursue acquisitions, joint ventures, cooperation agreements or other growth or geographic expansion strategies that may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business and could present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs.. We routinely assess our strategic position and may in the future seek acquisitions or other transactions or growth strategies to further enhance our competitive position. We have in the past pursued joint ventures and other transactions aimed at expanding the geography and scope of our operations. We expect to continue to explore acquisitions, growth strategies and partnership or strategic alliance opportunities that we believe to be attractive.. Acquisitions, growth strategies and joint ventures involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges. These risks and challenges include potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management, difficulty integrating personnel and financial and other systems, difficulty hiring additional management and other critical personnel, and other challenges arising from the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations.. To the extent that we pursue business opportunities outside of the United States and our other principal business locations, including through acquisitions, joint ventures or other geographic expansion of our existing businesses, we may become subject to political, economic, legal, operational, regulatory and other risks that are inherent in operating in a foreign country, including risks of potential price, capital and currency exchange controls, licensing requirements and other regulatory restrictions, as well as the risk of hostile actions against or affecting our business or people. Our ability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular foreign jurisdiction could adversely affect our businesses and our reputation.. In addition, our clients may react unfavorably to our acquisition, growth and joint venture strategies, we may not realize any anticipated benefits from such strategies, we may be exposed to additional liabilities of any acquired business or joint venture, we may be exposed to litigation in connection with an acquisition, growth or joint venture transaction, and we may not be able to renew on similar terms (or at all) previously successful joint ventures or similar arrangements, any of which could materially adversely affect our revenue, financial position and results of operations.. 25. An inability to access the debt and equity capital markets as a result of our debt obligations, credit ratings or other factors could impair our liquidity, increase our borrowing costs or otherwise adversely affect our competitive position or results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, Lazard Group and its subsidiaries had approximately $1.2 billion in debt outstanding, of which $500 million, $400 million and $300 million relate to Lazard Group senior notes that mature in 2020, 2025 and 2027, respectively. This debt has certain mandated payment obligations, which may constrain our ability to operate our business. If we decide to redeem or retire this debt before maturity, we may be required to pay a significant premium to do so, which may adversely impact our earnings and affect our financial position. In addition, in the future we may need to incur debt or issue equity in order to fund our working capital requirements or refinance existing indebtedness, as well as to make acquisitions and other investments. The amount of our debt obligations may impair our ability to raise debt or issue equity for financing purposes. Our access to funds also may be impaired if regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or if we discover that any of our employees had engaged in serious unauthorized or illegal activity. In addition, our borrowing costs and our access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings. These ratings are assigned by rating agencies, which may reduce or withdraw their ratings or place us on \"credit watch\" with negative implications at any time.. Our share price may decline due to the large number of our common shares eligible for future sale.. As of December 31, 2017, Lazard Ltd's authorized and unissued shares of Class A common stock include approximately 16.7 million shares of our Class A common stock underlying RSUs, PRSUs, deferred stock units (\"DSUs\") and restricted stock awards that have been granted pursuant to Lazard Ltd's 2008 Incentive Compensation Plan (the \"2008 Plan\"). RSUs and restricted stock awards generally require future service, among other requirements, as a condition for the delivery of the underlying shares of our Class A common stock (unless the recipient is then eligible for retirement under the Company's retirement policy) and convert into Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis after the stipulated vesting periods. Such vesting events generally occur in the first quarter of each year, at which point a large number of our shares of Class A common stock immediately become available for sale. PRSUs generally require future service and satisfaction of performance-based vesting criteria as a condition for the delivery of the underlying shares of Class A common stock, and the number of such shares that may be received in connection with each PRSU generally may range from zero to two times the target number.. We have generally withheld a portion of the Class A common stock issued to our employees upon vesting of RSUs or delivery of restricted stock to comply with minimum statutory tax withholding requirements. In addition, we have historically repurchased in the open market and through privately negotiated transactions a significant number of shares of our Class A common stock. If we were to cease to or were unable to repurchase shares of our Class A common stock, the number of shares outstanding would increase over time, diluting the ownership of our existing stockholders.. Furthermore, we cannot predict whether, when and how many shares of our Class A common stock will be sold into the market and the effect, if any, that the possibility of market sales of shares of our Class A common stock, the actual sale of such shares or the availability of such shares will have on the market price of our Class A common stock or our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities from time to time. There are generally no restrictions on the sale of vested shares of Class A common stock held by our employees other than prohibitions on sales during internal \"blackout\" periods imposed by us at points between quarterly earnings releases.. The 2008 Plan will expire in May 2018, and we will depend upon a successor incentive compensation plan to continue to grant RSUs, PRSUs, DSUs and restricted stock awards to eligible recipients.. Lazard Ltd is a holding company and, accordingly, depends upon distributions from Lazard Group to pay dividends and taxes and other expenses.. Lazard Ltd is a holding company and has no independent means of generating significant revenue. We control Lazard Group through our indirect control of both of the managing members of Lazard Group. Our subsidiaries incur income taxes on net taxable income of Lazard Group in their respective tax jurisdictions. We intend to continue to cause Lazard Group to make distributions to our subsidiaries in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes payable by us and dividends, if any, declared by us. To the extent that our subsidiaries need funds to. 26. pay taxes on their share of Lazard Group's net taxable income, or if Lazard Ltd needs funds for any other purpose, and Lazard Group is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Lazard Group is a holding company and therefore depends on its subsidiaries to make distributions to Lazard Group to enable it to service its obligations under its indebtedness.. Lazard Group depends on its subsidiaries, which conduct the operations of its businesses, for distributions, dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet its financial obligations, including payments of principal and interest on its indebtedness. However, none of Lazard Group's subsidiaries is obligated to make funds available to it for servicing such financial obligations, and the group of entities that constitute Lazard Group's subsidiaries may change over time. The earnings from, or other available assets of, Lazard Group's subsidiaries may not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans to enable Lazard Group to make payments with respect to its financial obligations when such payments are due. In addition, even if such earnings were sufficient, the agreements governing the current and future obligations of Lazard Group's subsidiaries, regulatory requirements with respect to our broker-dealer and other regulated subsidiaries, foreign exchange controls and a variety of other factors may impede our subsidiaries' ability to provide Lazard Group with sufficient dividends, distributions or loans to fund its financial obligations, when due.. In the event of a change or adverse interpretation of relevant income tax law, regulation or treaty, or a failure to qualify for treaty benefits, our overall tax rate may be substantially higher than the rate used for purposes of our consolidated financial statements.. Our effective tax rate is based upon the application of currently applicable income tax laws, regulations and treaties, current judicial and administrative interpretations of those income tax laws, regulations and treaties, and upon our non-U.S. subsidiaries' ability to qualify for benefits, including reduced withholding tax rates, among other things, under those treaties, and that a portion of their income is not subject to U.S. tax as effectively connected income. Those income tax laws, regulations and treaties, and the administrative and judicial interpretations of them, are subject to change at any time, and any such change may be retroactive.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was enacted. The Tax Act significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other changes, lowering the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, implementing a partial territorial tax system and imposing a one-time repatriation tax on the deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Tax Act also includes several provisions that may limit the benefit of the tax rate reduction, such as restricting the deductibility of interest expense and other corporate business expenses.. The international tax provisions of the Tax Act are complex and the ultimate impact on us of the international provisions, such as the base erosion and anti-abuse tax (\"BEAT\"), the tax on global intangible low- taxed income (\"GILTI\") and the other provisions of the Tax Act is uncertain because of the practical and technical application of many of those provisions and the anticipated guidance from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") about those provisions.  The Tax Act could also be subject to potential amendments or legislative corrections in the near to medium term that could adversely affect us. In addition, if we were to convert into a U.S. corporation, we could be subject to additional U.S. taxes, and future payments required under our tax receivable agreement could be accelerated, both of which could reduce the amount of our cash available for distribution or reinvestment.. In addition, the eligibility of our non-U.S. subsidiaries for treaty benefits generally depends upon, among other things, at least 50% of the principal class of shares in such subsidiaries being \"ultimately owned\" by U.S. citizens and persons who are \"qualified residents\" for purposes of the treaty. It is possible that this requirement may not be met, and even if it is met, we may not be able to document that fact to the satisfaction of the IRS. If our non-U.S. subsidiaries are not treated as eligible for treaty benefits, such subsidiaries will be subject to additional U.S. taxes, including \"branch profits tax\" on their \"effectively connected earnings and profits\" (as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes) at a rate of 30% rather than a treaty rate of 5%.. 27. U.S. and foreign governments, institutions (including the European Union and the Organization of Economically Developed Countries) and tax officials have produced and continue to implement many laws, regulations, and treaties that currently govern the taxation of multinational companies. Any implementation of, or changes to, any such laws, regulations and treaties that impact us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Tax authorities may challenge our tax computations and classifications, our transfer pricing methods, and our application of related policies and methods.. Our tax returns are subject to audit by federal, local and foreign tax authorities. These authorities may successfully challenge certain tax positions or deductions taken by our subsidiaries. For example, tax authorities may contest intercompany allocations of fee income, management charges or interest charges among affiliates in different tax jurisdictions. While we believe that we have provided the appropriate required reserves (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), it is possible that a tax authority may disagree with all, or a portion, of the tax benefits claimed. If a tax authority were to successfully challenge our positions, it could result in significant additional tax costs or payments under the tax receivable agreement described below.. In addition, there are additional transfer pricing and standardized country by country reporting requirements being implemented. Additional information from country by country reporting, certain local information sharing arrangements, and other documentation held by tax authorities is expected to be subject to greater information sharing arrangements and any challenges from tax authorities reviewing such information could adversely impact our overall tax obligations or our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Uncertainty regarding the outcome of future arrangements between the European Union and the United Kingdom may adversely affect our business.. The Company has a significant presence in many European Union countries, including the United Kingdom. In a June 2016 referendum, the U.K. voted in favor of leaving the European Union, and in February 2017 the U.K.'s House of Commons voted to approve the initiation of formal exit discussions with the European Union. Such exit discussions covering, among other matters, transitional arrangements that would apply following the U.K.'s departure from the European Union in March 2019 are currently in process. At the time that the U.K. ultimately leaves the European Union, the commercial, regulatory and legal environment that would exist, and to which the Company's U.K. operations would be subject, would be impacted by the nature of arrangements that are under negotiation and yet to be determined between the U.K and the European Union. These arrangements are hard to predict, and uncertainty regarding their outcome may continue. The Company currently does not believe that any of the potential arrangements that are likely to be agreed would have a material adverse impact on the Company's business. These potential arrangements may, however, result in certain changes in the way that we conduct our businesses, which could result in increased costs. In addition, the result of the referendum and the uncertainty it produced has impacted geopolitical perspectives and macroeconomic factors including interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets, and it has increased volatility in certain markets in which we operate. If these conditions continue or if current conditions worsen, our businesses may be adversely affected, which may impact our financial position and results of operations. See \"Difficult market conditions can adversely affect our business in many ways, including by reducing the volume of transactions involving our Financial Advisory business and reducing the value or performance of the assets we manage in our Asset Management business, which, in each case, could materially reduce our revenue or income and adversely affect our financial position\" above.. Our subsidiaries may be required to make payments under the Amended and Restated Tax Receivable Agreement. The IRS may challenge the tax benefits that give rise to such payments and, under certain circumstances, our subsidiaries may have made or could make payments under the Amended and Restated Tax Receivable Agreement in excess of our subsidiaries' cash tax savings.. As further discussed in \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Income Taxes\" and Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Second Amended and Restated Tax Receivable Agreement, dated as of October 26, 2015 (the \"Amended and Restated Tax Receivable Agreement\"), between Lazard and LTBP Trust, a Delaware statutory trust (the \"Trust\"), provides for the payment by our subsidiaries to the Trust of a significant portion of the cash. 28. savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax or franchise tax that we actually realize as a result of certain tax benefits that are subject to the Amended and Restated Tax Receivable Agreement. Any amount paid by our subsidiaries to the Trust will generally be distributed to the owners of the Trust, including our executive officers, in proportion to their beneficial interests in the Trust. If the IRS successfully challenges the tax benefits described above, under certain circumstances, our subsidiaries may have made or could make payments under the Amended and Restated Tax Receivable Agreement in excess of our subsidiaries' cash tax savings.. 29. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. We have made statements under the captions \"Business,\" \"Risk Factors,\" \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and in other sections of this Form 10-K that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as \"may,\" \"might,\" \"will,\" \"should,\" \"could,\" \"would,\" \"expect,\" \"plan,\" \"anticipate,\" \"believe,\" \"estimate,\" \"predict,\" \"potential,\" \"target,\" \"goal\" or \"continue,\" and the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance based on our growth strategies, business plans and initiatives and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations and projections about future events. There are important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from the results, level of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, the numerous risks and uncertainties outlined in \"Risk Factors,\" including the following:. •  a decline in general economic conditions or global or regional financial markets;. •  a decline in our revenues, for example due to a decline in overall M&A activity, our share of the M&A market or our AUM;. •  losses caused by financial or other problems experienced by third parties;. •  losses due to unidentified or unanticipated risks;. •  a lack of liquidity, i.e., ready access to funds, for use in our businesses; and. •  competitive pressure on our businesses and on our ability to retain and attract employees at current compensation levels.. These risks and uncertainties are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Form 10-K describe additional factors that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for our management to predict all risks and uncertainties, nor can management assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We are under no duty to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this Form 10-K to conform our prior statements to actual results or revised expectations and we do not intend to do so.. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about:. •  financial goals, including ratios of compensation and benefits expense to operating revenue;. •  ability to deploy surplus cash through dividends, share repurchases and debt repurchases;. •  ability to offset stockholder dilution through share repurchases;. •  possible or assumed future results of operations and operating cash flows;. •  strategies and investment policies;. •  financing plans and the availability of short-term borrowing;. •  competitive position;. •  future acquisitions, including the consideration to be paid and the timing of consummation;. •  potential growth opportunities available to our businesses;. 30. •  recruitment and retention of our managing directors and employees;. •  potential levels of compensation expense, including awarded compensation and benefits expense and adjusted compensation and benefits expense, and non-compensation expense;. •  potential operating performance, achievements, productivity improvements, efficiency and cost reduction efforts;. •  likelihood of success and impact of litigation;. •  expected tax rates, including effective tax rates;. •  changes in interest and tax rates;. •  availability of certain tax benefits, including certain potential deductions;. •  potential impact of certain events or circumstances on our financial statements;. •  changes in foreign currency exchange rates;. •  expectations with respect to the economy, the securities markets, the market for mergers, acquisitions and strategic advisory and restructuring activity, the market for asset management activity and other macroeconomic and industry trends;. •  effects of competition on our business; and. •  impact of new or future legislation and regulation, including tax laws and regulations, on our business.. The Company is committed to providing timely and accurate information to the investing public, consistent with our legal and regulatory obligations. To that end, the Company uses its website, its twitter account (twitter.com/Lazard) and other social media sites to convey information about our businesses, including the anticipated release of quarterly financial results, quarterly financial, statistical and business-related information, and the posting of updates of AUM in various mutual funds, hedge funds and other investment products managed by our Asset Management business. Investors can link to Lazard Ltd, Lazard Group and their operating company websites through http://www.lazard.com. Our websites and social media sites and the information contained therein or connected thereto shall not be deemed to be incorporated into this Form 10-K."
