[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS.. The following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face, but represent the most significant risk factors that we believe may adversely affect the RV and other industries we supply our products to, as well as our business, operations or financial position. The risks and uncertainties discussed in this report are not exclusive and other risk factors that we may consider immaterial or do not anticipate may emerge as significant risks and uncertainties.. Industry Risk Factors. Economic and business factors beyond our control, including cyclicality and seasonality in the industries where we sell our products, could lead to fluctuations in our operating results.. The RV, recreational boat and other markets where we sell many of our products or where our products are used, have been characterized by cycles of growth and contraction in consumer demand, often because the purchase of such products are viewed as a consumer discretionary purchase. Periods of economic recession have adversely affected, and could again adversely affect, our operating results. Companies in these industries are subject to volatility in production levels, shipments, sales and operating results due to changes in external factors such as general economic conditions, including credit availability, consumer confidence, employment rates, prevailing interest rates, inflation, fuel prices and other economic conditions affecting consumer demand and discretionary consumer spending, as well as demographic and political changes, all of which are beyond our control. Consequently, our operating results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period.. Additionally, manufacturing operations in most of the industries where we sell our products or where our products are used historically have been seasonal. However, because of fluctuations in dealer inventories, the impact of international, national and regional economic conditions and consumer confidence on retail sales of products which include our components, and other factors, current and future seasonal industry trends may be different than in prior years. Unusually severe weather conditions in some geographic areas may also, from time to time, impact the timing of industry-wide shipments from one period to another.. Reductions in the availability of wholesale financing limits the inventories carried by retail dealers of RVs and other products which use our components, which would cause reduced production by our customers, and therefore reduced demand for our products.. Retail dealers of RVs and other products which use our components generally finance their purchases of inventory with financing known as floor-plan financing provided by lending institutions. A dealer's ability to obtain financing is significantly affected by the number of lending institutions offering floor planning, and by an institution's lending limits, which are beyond our control.  Reduction in the availability of floor-plan financing has in the past caused, and would in the future again likely cause, many dealers to reduce inventories, which would result in reduced production by OEMs, and consequently resulting in reduced demand for our products. Moreover, dealers which are unable to obtain adequate financing could cease operations. Their remaining inventories would likely be sold at discounts, disrupting the market. Such sales have historically caused a decline in orders for new inventory, which reduced demand for our products, and which could recur in the future.. Conditions in the credit market could limit the ability of consumers to obtain retail financing for RVs and other products which use our components, resulting in reduced demand for our products.. Retail consumers who purchase RVs and other products which use our components generally obtain retail financing from third party lenders. The availability, terms and cost of retail financing depend on the lending practices of financial institutions, governmental policies and economic and other conditions, all of which are beyond our control. Restrictions on the availability of consumer financing and increases in the costs of such financing have in the past limited, and could again limit, the ability of. 12. consumers to purchase such discretionary products, which would result in reduced production of such products by our customers, and therefore reduce demand for our products.. Excess inventories at dealers and manufacturers can cause a decline in the demand for our products.. Dealers and manufacturers could accumulate unsold inventory. High levels of unsold inventory have in the past caused, and would cause, a reduction in orders, which would likely cause a decline in demand for our products.. Gasoline shortages, or high prices for gasoline, could lead to reduced demand for our products.. Fuel shortages, and substantial increases in the price of fuel, have had an adverse effect on the RV industry as a whole in the past, and could again in the future. Travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs, components for which represented approximately 71 percent of our OEM Segment net sales in 2017, are usually towed by light trucks or SUVs. Generally, these vehicles use more fuel than automobiles, particularly while towing RVs or other trailers. High prices for gasoline, or anticipation of potential fuel shortages, can affect consumer use and purchase of light trucks and SUVs, which could result in reduced demand for travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs, and therefore reduced demand for our products.. Company-Specific Risk Factors. A significant percentage of our sales are concentrated in the RV industry, and declines in industry-wide wholesale shipments of travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs could reduce demand for our products and adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.. In 2017, the OEM Segment represented 92 percent of our consolidated net sales, and 89 percent of consolidated segment operating profit. Approximately 71 percent of our OEM Segment net sales in 2017 were of products to manufacturers of travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs. While we measure our OEM Segment sales against industry-wide wholesale shipment statistics, the underlying health of the RV industry is determined by retail demand. Retail sales of RVs historically have been closely tied to general economic conditions, as well as consumer confidence which was above historical averages in 2017. Declines in industry-wide wholesale shipments of travel trailer and fifth-wheel RVs could reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. The loss of any key customer, or a significant reduction in purchases by such customers, could have a material adverse impact on our operating results.. Two customers of both the OEM Segment and the Aftermarket Segment accounted for 63 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2017. The loss of either of these customers or other significant customers, or a substantial reduction in sales to any such customer, would have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we generally do not have long-term agreements with our customers and cannot predict that we will maintain our current relationships with these customers or that we will continue to supply them at current levels.. Volatile raw material costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results.. The prices we pay for steel and aluminum represented approximately 40 percent and 10 percent, respectively, of our raw material costs in 2017. The prices of these, and other key raw materials, have historically been volatile and can fluctuate dramatically with changes in the global demand and supply for such products.. Because competition and business conditions may limit the amount or timing of increases in raw material costs that can be passed through to our customers in the form of sales price increases, future increases in raw material costs could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Conversely, as raw material costs decline, we may not be able to maintain selling prices consistent with higher cost raw materials in our inventory, which could adversely affect our operating results.. Inadequate or interrupted supply of raw materials or components used to make our products could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results.. Our business depends on our ability to source raw materials, such as steel, aluminum, glass, fabric and foam, and certain components, such as electric motors, televisions and appliances, in a timely and cost efficient manner. Most materials and components are readily available from a variety of sources. However, a few key components are currently produced by only a small group of quality suppliers that have the capacity to supply large quantities. If raw materials or components that are used in manufacturing our products or for which we act as a distributor, particularly those which we import, become unavailable, or if the. 13. supply of these raw materials and components is interrupted or delayed, our manufacturing and distribution operations could be adversely affected, which could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results.. In 2017, we imported, or purchased from suppliers who imported, approximately 30 percent of our raw materials and components. Additionally, we have the exclusive right to distribute Furrion's complete line of electronics and appliance products to OEMs and aftermarket customers in the RV, specialty vehicle, utility trailer, horse trailer, marine, transit bus and school bus industries throughout the United States and Canada, which products are imported from China. Consequently, we rely on the free flow of goods through open and operational ports and on a consistent basis for a significant portion of our raw materials and components. Adverse political conditions, trade embargoes, increased tariffs or import duties, inclement weather, natural disasters, war, terrorism or labor disputes at various ports or otherwise adversely impacting our suppliers create significant risks for our business, particularly if these conditions or disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes or other disruptions, and could have an adverse impact on our operating results if we are unable to fulfill customer orders or required to accumulate excess inventory or find alternate sources of supply, if available, at higher costs.. We import a portion of our raw materials and the components we sell and the effect of foreign exchange rates could adversely affect our operating results.. We negotiate for the purchase of a significant portion of raw materials and semi-finished components with suppliers that are not located in the United States. As such, the prices we pay in part are dependent upon the rate of exchange for U.S. Dollars versus the currency of the local supplier. A dramatic weakening of the U.S. Dollar could increase our cost of goods sold and such cost increases may not be offset through price increases for our products, adversely impacting our margins.. Changes in consumer preferences relating to our products, or the inability to develop innovative new products, could cause reduced sales.. Changes in consumer preferences for RV, manufactured housing and recreational boat models, and for the components we make for such products, occur over time. Our inability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences for such products, or delays in responding to such changes, could reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our net sales and operating results. Similarly, we believe our ability to remain competitive also depends on our ability to develop innovative new products or enhanced features of existing products. Delays in the introduction or market acceptance of new products or product features could have an adverse effect on our net sales and operating results.. Competitive pressures could reduce demand for our products or impact our sales prices.. The industries in which we are engaged are highly competitive and generally characterized by low barriers to entry, and we have numerous existing and potential competitors. Competition is based primarily upon product quality and reliability, product innovation, price, customer service and customer satisfaction.. Competitive pressures have, from time to time, resulted in a reduction of our profit margins and/or reduction in our market share. Domestic and foreign competitors may lower prices on products which currently compete with our products, or develop product improvements, which could reduce demand for our products or cause us to reduce prices for our products. Sustained increases in these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, the manufacture by our customers themselves of products supplied by us could reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Increases in demand could result in difficulty obtaining additional skilled labor, and available capacity may initially not be utilized efficiently.. In certain geographic regions in which we have a larger concentration of manufacturing facilities we have experienced, and could again experience, shortages of qualified employees. Competition for skilled workers, especially during improving economic times, may increase the cost of our labor and create employee retention and recruitment challenges, as employees with knowledge and experience have the ability to change employers relatively easily. If such conditions become extreme, we may not be able to increase production to timely satisfy demand, and may initially incur higher labor and production costs, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition.. 14. We may incur unexpected expenses, or face delays and other obstacles, in connection with expansion plans or investments we make in our business, which could adversely impact our operating results.. It may take longer than initially anticipated for us to realize expected results from investments in research and development or acquired businesses, as well as initiatives we have implemented to increase capacity and improve production efficiencies, automation, customer service and other aspects of our business, or we may incur unexpected expenses in connection with these matters. Expansion plans may involve the acquisition of existing manufacturing facilities that require upgrades and improvements or the need to build new manufacturing facilities. Such activities may be delayed or incur unanticipated costs which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Similarly, competition for desirable production facilities, especially during times of increasing production, may increase the cost of acquiring production facilities or limit the availability of obtaining such facilities. In addition, the start-up of operations in new facilities may incur unanticipated costs and inefficiencies which may adversely affect our profitability during the ramp up of production in those facilities. Delays in the construction, re-configuration or relocation of facilities could result in an adverse impact to our operating results or a loss of market share.. In addition, to the extent our expansion plans involve acquisitions or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities or complete any acquisition, combination, joint venture or other transaction on acceptable terms. Our identification of suitable acquisition candidates and joint venture opportunities and the integration of acquired business operations involve risks inherent in assessing the values, strengths, weaknesses, risks and profitability of these opportunities, as well as significant financial, management and related resources that would otherwise be used for the ongoing development of our existing operations and internal expansion.. Natural disasters, unusual weather conditions, epidemic outbreaks, terrorist acts and political events could disrupt our business and result in lower sales and otherwise adversely affect our financial performance.. Our facilities may be affected by natural disasters, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes, and unusual weather conditions, as well as other external events such as epidemic outbreaks, terrorist attacks or disruptive political events, any one of which could adversely affect our business and result in lower sales. In the event that one of our manufacturing or distribution facilities was affected by a disaster or other event, we could be forced to shift production to one of our other facilities, which we may not be able to do effectively or at all, or to cease operations. Although we maintain insurance for damage to our property and disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. Any disruption in our manufacturing capacity could have an adverse impact on our ability to produce sufficient inventory of our products or may require us to incur additional expenses in order to produce sufficient inventory, and therefore, may adversely affect our net sales and operating results. Any disruption or delay at our manufacturing or distribution facilities or customer service centers could impair our ability to meet the demands of our customers, and our customers may cancel orders with us or purchase products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.. We have recently entered new markets in an effort to enhance our growth potential, and uncertainties with respect to these new markets could impact our operating results.. Our ability to expand our market share for our products that are used as components for RVs is limited. We have made investments in an effort to expand the sale of our products in adjacent industries, such as buses, trucks, pontoon boats and trains, where we may have less familiarity with OEM or consumer preferences and could encounter difficulties in attracting customers due to a reduced level of familiarity with our brands. We have also made investments to expand the sale of our products in the aftermarket of our industries, and are exploring opportunities to increase export sales of our products to international markets. These investments involve significant resources, put a strain on our administrative, operational and financial capabilities and carry a risk of failure. Limited operating experience or limited brand recognition in new markets may limit our business expansion strategy. Lack of demand for our products in these markets or competitive pressures requiring us to lower prices for our products could adversely impact our business growth in these markets and our results of operations.. If acquired businesses are not successfully integrated into our operations, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted.. We have completed several business acquisitions and may continue to engage in acquisitions or similar activities, such as joint ventures and other business transactions. Our ability to grow through acquisitions will depend, in part, on the availability of suitable candidates at acceptable prices, terms, and conditions, our ability to compete effectively for acquisition candidates, and the availability of capital and personnel to complete such acquisitions and run the acquired business effectively.  Such acquisitions, joint ventures and other business transactions involve potential risks, including:. 15. • the failure to successfully integrate personnel, departments and systems, including IT and accounting systems, technologies, books and records and procedures,. • the need for additional investments post-acquisition that could be greater than anticipated,. • the assumption of liabilities of the acquired businesses that could be greater than anticipated,. • incorrect estimates made in the accounting for acquisitions, incurrence of non-recurring charges, and write-off of significant amounts of goodwill or other assets that could adversely affect our operating results,. • unforeseen difficulties related to entering geographic regions or industries in which we do not have prior experience, and. • the potential loss of key employees or existing customers or adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers.. Integrating acquired operations is a significant challenge and there is no assurance that we will be able to manage the integrations successfully. If we are unable to efficiently integrate these businesses, the attention of our management could be diverted from our existing operations and the ability of the management teams at these business units to meet operational and financial expectations could be adversely impacted, which could impair our ability to execute our business plans. Failure to successfully integrate acquired operations or to realize the expected benefits of such acquisitions may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. As we expand our business internationally, we will be subject to new operational and financial risks.. We have been gradually growing sales overseas, primarily in Europe and Australia, and export sales represented approximately 4 percent, 2 percent and 1 percent of consolidated net sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We plan to continue pursuing international opportunities. Four of our acquisitions since 2015 are headquartered in Europe or have international operations and customers.. Conducting business outside of the United States is subject to various risks, many of which are beyond our control, including: adverse political and economic conditions; changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements, and taxation; difficulties in managing or overseeing foreign operations and agents; differences in regulatory environments, labor practices and market practices; cultural and linguistic differences; foreign currency fluctuations; limitations on the repatriation of funds because of foreign exchange controls; different liability standards; potentially longer payment cycles; different credit risks; and intellectual property laws of countries which do not protect our rights in our intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition, as well as impact our ability to operate in international markets.. The loss of key management could reduce our ability to execute our business strategy and could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We are dependent on the knowledge, experience and skill of our leadership team. The loss of the services of one or more key managers or the failure to attract or retain qualified managerial, technical, sales and marketing, operations and customer service staff could impair our ability to conduct and manage our business and execute our business strategy, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our business is subject to numerous international, federal, state and local regulations, and increased costs of compliance, failure in our compliance efforts or events beyond our control could result in damages, expenses or liabilities that could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results.. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations governing the manufacture and sale of our products, including regulations and standards promulgated by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (\"NHTSA\") of the United States Department of Transportation (\"DOT\"), the Consumer Products Safety Commission, the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (\"HUD\"), and consumer safety standards promulgated by state regulatory agencies and industry associations. Sales and manufacturing operations in foreign countries may be subject to similar regulations. Any major recalls of our products, voluntary or involuntary, could adversely impact our reputation, net sales, financial condition and operating results. Changes in laws or regulations that impose additional regulatory requirements on us could increase our cost of doing business or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. Our failure to comply with present or future regulations and standards could result in fines, penalties, recalls or injunctions being imposed on us, administrative penalties, potential civil and criminal liability, suspension of sales or production or cessation of operations.. 16. Further, certain U.S. and foreign laws and regulations affect our activities. Areas of our business affected by such laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, labor, advertising, consumer protection, quality of services, warranty, product liability, real estate, intellectual property, tax, import and export duties, tariffs, competition, environmental, and health and safety. We are also subject to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws applicable to our operations. Compliance with these laws and others may be onerous and costly, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, which further complicates compliance efforts. Violations of these laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, including restraints on our export or import privileges, monetary fines, criminal proceedings and regulatory or other actions that could adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot assure you that our employees, contractors, vendors or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies and procedures related to compliance.. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with evolving healthcare, health and safety laws, regulations or other pertinent requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future by governmental authorities. Our operating profit margin in 2017 was impacted by higher health insurance costs, largely due to increased employee participation and improved retention, in addition to the new healthcare requirements, and operating profit will likely continue to be impacted in future periods.. Our risk management policies and procedures may not be fully effective in achieving their purposes.. Our policies, procedures, controls and oversight to monitor and manage our enterprise risks may not be fully effective in achieving their purpose and may leave exposure to identified or unidentified risks. Past or future misconduct by our employees, contractors, vendors or agents could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions and/or serious reputational harm or financial harm. We cannot assure you that our policies, procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent all forms of misconduct. We review our compensation policies and practices as part of our overall enterprise risk management program, but it is possible that our compensation policies could incentivize inappropriate risk taking or misconduct. If such inappropriate risks or misconduct occurs, it is possible that it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and/or our financial condition.. Our operations are subject to certain environmental laws and regulations, and costs of compliance, investigation or remediation of environmental conditions could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our operations are also subject to certain complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to air, water, noise pollution and the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials used during the manufacturing processes. Under certain of these laws, namely the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act and its state counterparts, liability for investigation and remediation of hazardous substance contamination at currently or formerly owned or operated facilities or at third-party waste disposal sites is joint and several. Our failure to comply with these regulations could cause us to become subject to fines and penalties or otherwise have an adverse impact on our business. Although we believe that our operations and facilities have been and are being operated in compliance, in all material respects, with such laws and regulations, one or more of our current or former operating sites, or adjacent sites owned by third-parties, have been affected by releases of hazardous materials. As a result, we may incur expenditures for future investigation and remediation, including in conjunction with voluntary remediation programs or third party claims. If other potentially responsible persons (\"PRPs\") are unable or otherwise not obligated to contribute to remediation costs, we could be held responsible for their portion of the remediation costs, and those costs could be material. The operation of our manufacturing facilities entails risks, and we cannot assure you that our costs in relation to these environmental matters or compliance with environmental laws in general will not have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims.. We rely on certain trademarks and patents, including contractual rights with third parties. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property against dilution, infringement, and competitive pressure by defending our intellectual property rights. We rely on intellectual property laws of the U.S., European Union, Canada, and other countries, as well as contractual and other legal rights, for the protection of our property rights. However, we cannot assure that these measures will be successful in any given instance, or that third parties will not infringe upon our intellectual property rights. We may be forced to take steps to protect our rights, including through litigation, which could result in a significant expenditure of funds and a diversion of resources. The inability to protect our intellectual property rights could result in competitors manufacturing and marketing similar products which could adversely affect our market share and results of operations. Competitors may challenge, invalidate or avoid the application of our existing or future intellectual property rights that we receive or license. We may also be subject to claims by third parties, seeking to enforce their claimed intellectual property rights. The loss of protection for our intellectual property could reduce the market value of our products and services, lower our profits, and could otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation.. 17. Compliance with conflict mineral disclosure requirements will create additional compliance cost and may create reputational challenges.. The SEC adopted rules pursuant to Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act setting forth new disclosure requirements concerning the use or potential use of certain minerals, deemed conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten), that are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. These requirements necessitate due diligence efforts on our part to assess whether such minerals are used in our products in order to make the relevant required annual disclosures that began in May 2014. We have incurred costs and diverted internal resources to comply with these disclosure requirements, including for diligence to determine the sources of those minerals that may be used or necessary to the production of our products. Compliance costs are expected to continue in future periods, subject to any regulatory changes implemented by the current administration in Washington, D.C. Further action or clarification from the SEC or a court regarding required disclosures could result in reputational challenges that could impact future sales if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products and are required to make such disclosures.. If our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or are breached, our operations could be disrupted and it could adversely affect our business, reputation and results of operation.. The efficient operation of our business depends on our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to effectively manage our business data, inventory, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, manufacturing, distribution, warranty administration, invoicing, collection of payments, and other business processes. We use information systems to report and support the audit of our operational and financial results. Additionally, we rely upon information systems in our sales, marketing, human resources and communication efforts. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer.. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, security breaches, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers, and other manipulation or improper use of our systems. Any such events could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or penalties under privacy laws, disruption in operations, and damage to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business. Further, we have selected and have begun implementing a new enterprise resource planning (\"ERP\") system, the full implementation of which is expected to take several years; however, there may be other challenges and risks as we upgrade and standardize our ERP system on a company-wide basis.. Cyber-attacks, such as those involving the deployment of malware, are increasing in frequency, sophistication and intensity and have become increasingly difficult to detect. We have an information security team that deploys the latest firewalls and constantly monitors and continually updates our security protections to mitigate these risks, but despite these ongoing efforts, we may still be vulnerable to a breach. If we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could: lose existing customers; have difficulty attracting new customers; have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud; have disputes with customers and suppliers; have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed; incur increased operating expenses; incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach; or suffer other adverse consequences.. Additionally, because we accept debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (the \"PCI Standard\"), issued by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council. The PCI Standard contains compliance guidelines with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of cardholder data. Complying with the PCI Standard and implementing related procedures, technology and information security measures requires significant resources and ongoing attention. Costs and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology such as those necessary to maintain compliance with the PCI Standard or with maintenance or adequate support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. Any material interruptions or failures in our payment-related systems could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We could incur warranty claims in excess of reserves.. We receive warranty claims from our customers in the ordinary course of our business. Although we maintain reserves for such claims, which to date have been adequate, there can be no assurance that warranty expense levels will remain at current levels or that such reserves will continue to be adequate. A significant increase in warranty claims exceeding our current warranty expense levels could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 18. In addition to the costs associated with the contractual warranty coverage provided on our products, we also occasionally incur costs as a result of additional service actions not covered by our warranties, including product recalls and customer satisfaction actions. Although we estimate and reserve for the cost of these service actions, there can be no assurance that expense levels will remain at current levels or such reserves will continue to be adequate.. We may be subject to product liability claims if people or property are harmed by the products we sell.. Some of the products we sell may expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death, or property damage, and may require product recalls or other actions. Although we maintain liability and product recall insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, even if a product liability claim is not successful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding a product recall or any assertion that our products caused property damage or personal injury could damage our brand identity and our reputation with existing and potential consumers and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We could incur asset impairment charges for goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets.. A portion of our total assets as of December 31, 2017 was comprised of goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets. At least annually, we review goodwill for impairment. Long-lived assets, identifiable intangible assets and goodwill are also reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable from future cash flows. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of the business or other factors. If the carrying value of a long-lived asset is considered impaired, an impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value. Our determination of future cash flows, future recoverability and fair value of our long-lived assets includes significant estimates and assumptions. Changes in those estimates or assumptions or lower than anticipated future financial performance may result in the identification of an impaired asset and a non-cash impairment charge, which could be material. Any such charge could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. We may become more leveraged.. Financing for our investments is typically provided through a combination of currently available cash and cash equivalents and use of our line of credit. The incurrence of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which could (1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or (4) negatively affect our outlook by one or more of our lenders.. We are subject to covenants in our debt agreements that may restrict or limit our operations and acquisitions and our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our debt agreements contain various covenants, restrictions and events of default. Among other things, these provisions require us to maintain certain financial ratios and impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments or acquisitions. Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness. These defaults could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Although we currently pay regular quarterly dividends on our common stock, we cannot assure you that we will continue to pay a regular quarterly dividend.. In March 2016, our Board of Directors approved the commencement of a dividend program under which we have paid regular quarterly cash dividends to holders of our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends, and our Board of Directors' determination to maintain our current dividend policy, will depend on numbers factors, including:. • the state of our business, competition, and changes in our industry;. • changes in the factors, assumptions, and other considerations made by our Board of Directors in reviewing and revising our dividend policy;. • our future results of operations, financial condition, liquidity needs, and capital resources;. • limitations in our financing arrangements; and. • our various expected cash needs, including cash interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, capital expenditures, the purchase price of acquisitions, and taxes.. 19. Each of the factors listed above could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends in accordance with our dividend policy or at all. In addition, the Board may elect to suspend or alter the current dividend policy at any time.. Our stock price may be volatile.. The price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include:. • the perceived prospects of our business and our industries as a whole;. • differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts;. • changes in analysts' recommendations or projections;. • changes affecting the availability of financing in the wholesale and consumer lending markets;. • actions or announcements by competitors;. • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business;. • the gain or loss of significant customers;. • significant sales of shares by a principal stockholder;. • changes in key personnel;. • actions taken by stockholders that may be contrary to Board of Director recommendations; and. • changes in general economic or market conditions.. In addition, stock markets generally experience significant price and volume volatility from time to time, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our performance."
