[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent in our business. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included and incorporated by reference in this report. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. 35. Table of Contents. The United States economy remains weak and unemployment levels are high. A prolonged economic downturn, especially one affecting our geographic market area, will adversely affect our business and financial results.. The United States experienced a severe economic recession in 2008 and 2009. While economic growth has resumed recently, the rate of growth has been slow and unemployment remains at very high levels and is not expected to improve in the near future. Loan portfolio quality has deteriorated at many financial institutions reflecting, in part, the weak U.S. economy and high unemployment. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. The continuing real estate downturn also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing and increased delinquencies in construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans for many lenders. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have declined substantially, and it is significantly more difficult for banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets.. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Quarterly Banking Profile has reported that nonperforming assets as a percentage of assets for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-insured financial institutions rose to 3.32% as of December 31, 2009, compared to 0.95% as of December 31, 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Quarterly Banking Profile has reported that annualized return on average assets was 0.09% for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-insured financial institutions compared to 0.81% for the year ended December 31, 2007. The NASDAQ Bank Index declined 38% between December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, our nonperforming assets as a percentage of total assets was .70% and our return on average assets was .12% for the year ended December 31, 2009.. Continued negative developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the market for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Moreover, continued declines in the stock market in general, or stock values of financial institutions and their holding companies specifically, could adversely affect our stock performance.. If economic conditions deteriorate in the State of Texas, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted as borrowers' ability to repay loans declines and the value of the collateral securing loans decreases.. Substantially all of our loans are located in the State of Texas. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates which may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events. Decreases in real estate values in the State of Texas could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our mortgage loans. As a result, the market value of the real estate underlying the loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of the loans. In the event that we are required to foreclose on a property securing a mortgage loan, we may not recover funds in an amount equal to the remaining loan balance. Consequently, we would sustain loan losses and potentially incur a higher provision for loan loss expense, which would have an adverse impact on earnings. In addition, adverse changes in the Texas economy may have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would also have an adverse impact on earnings.. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our percentage of commercial real estate and commercial non-mortgage loans.. Over the last several years, we have increased our non-residential lending in order to improve the yield on our assets. At December 31, 2009, our loan portfolio included $482.5 million of commercial real estate loans and commercial non-mortgage loans, or 43.0% of total loans, compared to $108.2 million, or 10.1% of total loans, at December 31, 2005. The credit risk related to these types of loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one- to four-family residential loans because the repayment of commercial real estate loans and commercial non-mortgage loans typically is dependent on the successful operation and income stream of the borrowers' business and the real estate securing the loans as collateral, which can be significantly affected by economic conditions. Additionally, commercial loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential real estate loans. If loans that are collateralized by real estate become troubled and the value of the real estate has been significantly impaired, then we may not be able to recover the full contractual amount of principal and interest that we anticipated at the time we originated the loan, which could require us to increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.. Several of our borrowers have more than one commercial real estate loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for one- to four-family residential property because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Since we plan to continue to increase our originations of these loans, it may be necessary to increase the level of our allowance for loan losses due to the increased risk characteristics associated with these types of loans. Any increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings. Any delinquent payments or the failure to repay these loans would hurt our earnings.. 36. Table of Contents. Our consumer loan portfolio possesses increased risk.. Our consumer loans accounted for approximately $94.9 million, or 8.5%, of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2009, of which $67.9 million consisted of automobile loans. Generally, we consider these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to first mortgage loans on one- to four-family, owner-occupied residential properties, particularly in the case of loans that are secured by rapidly depreciable assets, such as automobiles. In these cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. Because our indirect automobile loans were originated through a third party and not directly by us, they present greater risks than other types of lending activities. As a result of this portfolio of consumer loans, it may become necessary to increase the level of our provision for loan losses, which could hurt our profits.. Our business may be adversely affected by credit risk associated with residential property.. As of December 31, 2009, residential mortgage loans, including home equity loans and lines of credit, totaled $544.3 million, or 48.5%, of total loans. This type of lending is generally sensitive to regional and local economic conditions that may significantly affect the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations, making loss levels difficult to predict. The decline in residential real estate values resulting from the downturn in local housing markets has reduced the value of the real estate collateral securing the majority of our loans and has increased the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and sales prices, coupled with high levels and increases in unemployment, may result in higher loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, or a decrease in our deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, which would adversely affect our capital and liquidity and damage our financial condition and business operations. These declines may have a greater impact on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions that have more diversified loan portfolios.. We are subject to credit risks in connection with the concentration of adjustable rate loans in our portfolio.. Approximately 32.2% of our loan portfolio is adjustable rate loans. Borrowers with adjustable rate loans are exposed to increased monthly payments when the related interest rate adjusts upward under the terms of the loan from the initial fixed to the rate computed in accordance with the applicable index and margin. Any rise in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate loans, increasing the possibility of default. Borrowers seeking to avoid these increased monthly payments by refinancing their loans may no longer be able to find available replacement loans at comparably lower interest rates. In addition, a decline in housing prices may leave borrowers with insufficient equity in their homes to permit them to refinance. Borrowers who intend to sell their homes on or before the expiration of the fixed rate period on their mortgage loans may also find that they cannot sell their properties for an amount equal to or greater than the unpaid principal balance of their loans. These events, alone or in combination, may contribute to higher delinquency rates and negatively impact our earnings.. If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will suffer.. At December 31, 2009, our non-performing assets (which consist of non-accrual loans, loans 90 days or more delinquent, troubled debt restructurings and foreclosed real estate assets) totaled $16.6 million, which was an increase of $10.2 million or 159.4% over non-performing assets at December 31, 2008. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or real estate owned. We must reserve for estimated credit losses, which are established through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses, and from time to time, if appropriate, write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from the overall supervision of our operations and other income-producing activities. Finally, if our estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly.. 37. Table of Contents. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease.. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. Management recognizes that significant new growth in loan portfolios, new loan products and the refinancing of existing loans can result in portfolios comprised of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, resulting in additions to our allowance. Additions to our allowance decrease our net income. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.10% of gross loans and 97.29% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2009, compared to 0.73% of gross loans and 191.11% of non-performing loans at December 31, 2008.. Our emphasis on originating commercial and one- to four- family real estate and commercial non-mortgage loans is one of the more significant factors in evaluating the allowance for loan losses. As we continue to increase our originations of these loans, increased provisions for loan losses may be necessary, which would decrease our earnings.. Our banking regulators and external auditor periodically review our allowance for loan losses. These entities may require us to recognize additions to the allowance for loan losses based on their judgments about information available to them at the time of their review. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income.. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank's operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank's allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any change in these regulations and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material impact on our operations.. In response to the financial crisis of 2008 and early 2009, Congress has taken actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has taken actions to increase insurance coverage on deposit accounts. In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount delinquent borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution's ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral.. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting lending and funding practices and liquidity standards. Moreover, bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and have issued many formal enforcement orders requiring capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws and regulations may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. For example, recent legislative proposals would require changes to our overdraft protection programs that could decrease the amount of fees we receive for these services. For the year ended December 31, 2009, overdraft protection and nonsufficient fund fees totaled $8.5 million. Further, legislative proposals limiting our rights as a creditor could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor.. A legislative proposal has been introduced that would eliminate the Office of Thrift Supervision, ViewPoint Bank's and ViewPoint Financial Group's primary federal regulator, which would require ViewPoint Financial Group to become a bank holding company.. Legislation has been introduced in the United States Senate and House of Representatives that would implement sweeping changes to the current bank regulatory structure. The House Bill (H.R. 4173) would eliminate our current primary federal regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, by merging it into the Comptroller of the Currency (the primary federal regulator for national banks). The proposed legislation would authorize the Comptroller of the Currency to charter mutual and stock savings banks and mutual holding companies, which would be under the supervision of the Division of Thrift Supervision of the Comptroller of the Currency. The proposed legislation would also establish a Financial Services Oversight Council and grant the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System exclusive authority to regulate all bank and thrift holding companies. As a result, ViewPoint Financial Group would become a holding company subject to supervision by the Federal Reserve Board as opposed to the Office of Thrift Supervision, and would become subject to the Federal Reserve's regulations, including holding company capital requirements, that ViewPoint Financial Group is not currently subject to as a savings and loan holding company. In addition, compliance with new regulations and being supervised by one or more new regulatory agencies could increase our expenses.. 38. Table of Contents. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Because interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would tend to result in a decrease in net interest income.. Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Also, increases in interest rates may extend the life of fixed-rate assets, which would limit the funds we have available to reinvest in higher yielding alternatives, and may result in customers withdrawing certificates of deposit early so long as the early withdrawal penalty is less than the interest they could receive as a result of the higher interest rates.. Changes in interest rates also affect the current fair value of our interest-earning securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities moves inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2009, the fair value of our portfolio of available-for-sale securities totaled $484.1 million. Gross unrealized gains on these securities totaled $7.9 million, while gross unrealized losses on these securities totaled $2.1 million, resulting in a net unrealized gain of $5.8 million at December 31, 2009.. At December 31, 2009, the Company's internal simulation model indicated that our net portfolio value would decrease by 8.5% if there was an instantaneous parallel 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. See the \"Asset/Liability Management\" discussion under Item 7A of this Form 10-K.. Additionally, approximately 32.2% or our loan portfolio is adjustable-rate loans. Any rise in market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans, increasing the possibility of default.. The Company had $341.4 million of loans held for sale at December 31, 2009, of which $311.4 million were Purchase Program loans purchased for sale under our standard loan participation agreement. Purchase Program loans adjust with changes to the daily LIBOR. These loans have a yield that is based on the daily LIBOR, with a floor of 2.50% per annum, plus a margin rate. The margin rate, which is based on the underlying mortgage loan as contracted and disclosed in the pricing schedule of each Purchase Program client, ranges between 2.00% and 3.00% per annum, which results in a minimum total rate for Purchase Program loans of 4.50%. During 2009, these loan rate floors were in effect and established a loan rate which was higher than the contractual rate spread would have otherwise been. As market interest rates increase, many of these interest rate floors will not adjust until the daily LIBOR exceeds 250 basis points. At that time, the loans will revert back to their normal contractual interest rate spread terms. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the average yield earned on Purchase Program loans was 4.89% versus an average LIBOR of 0.23% plus the average margin of 2.40%, which results in a positive difference of 226 basis points.. Our strategies to modify our interest rate risk profile may be difficult to implement.. Our asset/liability management strategies are designed to decrease our interest rate risk sensitivity. One such strategy is increasing the amount of adjustable rate and/or short-term assets. The Company offers adjustable rate loan products as a means to achieve this strategy. However, lower fixed interest rates would generally create a decrease in borrower demand for adjustable rate assets. Additionally, there is no guarantee that any adjustable rate assets obtained will not prepay. At December 31, 2009, 32.2% of our loan portfolio consisted of adjustable rate loans, compared to 31.1% at December 31, 2008.. 39. Table of Contents. We are also managing our liabilities to moderate our interest rate risk sensitivity. Customer demand is primarily for short-term maturity certificates of deposit. Using short-term liabilities to fund long-term fixed rate assets will increase the interest rate sensitivity of any financial institution. We are utilizing FHLB advances to mitigate the impact of customer demand by lengthening the maturities of these advances or entering into longer term repurchase agreements, depending on liquidity or investment opportunities.. FHLB advances and repurchase agreements are entered into as liquidity is needed or to fund assets that provide for a spread considered sufficient by management. If we are unable to originate adjustable rate assets at favorable rates or fund loan originations or securities purchases with long-term advances or structured borrowings, we may have difficulty executing this asset/liability management strategy and/or it may result in a reduction in profitability.. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition.. Liquidity is essential to our business. We rely on a number of different sources in order to meet our potential liquidity demands. Our primary sources of liquidity are increases in deposit accounts, cash flows from loan payments and our securities portfolio. Borrowings also provide us with a source of funds to meet liquidity demands. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically, or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include adverse regulatory action against us or a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets, or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations, or continued deterioration in credit markets.. Additionally, at December 31, 2009, public funds totaled $336.3 million, representing 53.1% of our time deposits and 18.7% of our total deposits. Public funds are bank deposits of state and local municipalities. These deposits are required to be secured by investment grade securities to ensure repayment, which on the one hand tends to reduce our contingent liquidity risk by making these funds somewhat less credit sensitive, but on the other hand reduces standby liquidity by restricting the potential liquidity of the pledged collateral. Although these funds historically have been a relatively stable source of funds for us, availability depends on the individual municipality's fiscal policies and cash flow needs.. Our securities portfolio may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in market value and interest rates, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. Our securities portfolio may be impacted by fluctuations in market value, potentially reducing accumulated other comprehensive income and/or earnings. Fluctuations in market value may be caused by decreases in interest rates, lower market prices for securities and limited investor demand. Our securities portfolio is evaluated for other-than-temporary impairment on at least a quarterly basis. If this evaluation shows impairment to the actual or projected cash flows associated with one or more securities, a potential loss to earnings may occur. Changes in interest rates can also have an adverse effect on our financial condition, as our available-for-sale securities are reported at their estimated fair value, and therefore are impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. We increase or decrease our shareholders' equity by the amount of change in the estimated fair value of the available-for-sale securities, net of taxes. At December 31, 2009, the change from December 31, 2008 in net unrealized gains on securities available for sale was $8.3 million.. Higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums and special assessments will adversely affect our earnings.. In 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation levied a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution's assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. We recorded an expense of $1.1 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation generally increased the base assessment rates effective April 1, 2009 and, therefore, our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premium expense will increase compared to prior periods.. 40. Table of Contents. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation also required all insured institutions to prepay their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. This pre-payment was due on December 30, 2009. The assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010 was based on each institution's total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 was calculated as the modified third quarter assessment rate plus an additional three basis points. In addition, every institution's base assessment rate for each period was calculated using its third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. We recorded the pre-payment as a prepaid expense, which will be amortized to expense over three years. Our prepayment amount was $9.1 million. Future increases in our assessment rate or special assessments would decrease our earnings.. If we are unsuccessful in raising additional capital now or in the future, our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects may be adversely affected.. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. Should we be required by regulatory authorities or otherwise elect to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, common stock or securities convertible into our common stock, which could dilute your ownership interest in ViewPoint Financial Group.. On January 26, 2010, we announced our intention to raise additional capital by reorganizing from a two-tier mutual holding company to a full stock holding company and undertaking a \"second-step\" offering of additional shares of common stock. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions, our financial performance and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, including approvals by our banking regulator, stockholders of ViewPoint Financial Group and depositors of ViewPoint Bank. If we cannot complete the reorganization and raise additional capital now (or in the future), it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects.. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability.. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. We compete with numerous commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have, have greater name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business, and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may limit our ability to increase our interest earning assets.. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities.. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations."
