[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The following risks and uncertainties are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements.  The factors described below are not the only ones we face and additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We depend heavily on the commercial success of XERMELO.  If we do not achieve commercial success with XERMELO, our business will suffer and our stock price will likely decline.. We expect that a significant portion of our total revenues for the next several years will be attributable to sales of XERMELO in the United States, but we cannot be certain that XERMELO will be commercially successful.  Our future sales of XERMELO will depend on numerous factors, including:. • the number of patients with carcinoid syndrome diarrhea who are inadequately controlled by SSA therapy, as well as the number of newly diagnosed carcinoid syndrome diarrhea patients;. • competition from SSA therapies, radiopharmaceutical products and any additional products for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome diarrhea that may be approved by the FDA in the future;. • the safety profile of XERMELO, including whether previously unknown side effects or increased incidence or severity of known side effects as compared to those seen during development are identified with the increased use of XERMELO after approval;. • the effectiveness of our commercial strategy for marketing XERMELO and our execution of that strategy, including our pricing strategy and the effectiveness of our efforts to obtain adequate third-party reimbursement;. • the acceptance of XERMELO by patients, the medical community and third-party payers; and. • our ability to meet the demand for commercial supplies of XERMELO and to maintain and successfully monitor commercial manufacturing arrangements for XERMELO with third-party manufacturers to ensure they meet our standards and those of the FDA, which extensively regulates and monitors pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities.. While we believe that XERMELO has a competitive commercial profile, our current estimates of the revenues that XERMELO could generate in future periods may change based upon the above factors, and could prove to be incorrect.  If our revenues, market share or other indicators of market acceptance of XERMELO fail to meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the market price of our common stock could decline.  In addition, if one or more of the factors above negatively affects XERMELO sales, our business and financial condition could be materially harmed and we may be more heavily dependent on the success of our other drug programs.. We depend heavily on our and Sanofi's ability to obtain regulatory approval in the United States and the European Union for sotagliflozin in type 1 diabetes.  If we and Sanofi fail to obtain such regulatory approval or fail to successfully commercialize sotagliflozin for type 1 diabetes upon regulatory approval, our business will suffer and our stock price will likely decline.. We and Sanofi are presently preparing for the submission of applications for regulatory approval to market sotagliflozin for the treatment of type 1 diabetes in the United States and the European Union.  We cannot offer any assurances or predict with any certainty that the FDA and/or EMA will accept such applications for filing or grant marketing approval for sotagliflozin, in either case on the expected timelines.  Furthermore, regulatory approvals for sotagliflozin, even if obtained, may limit the type of patients in which sotagliflozin may be used or otherwise require specific warning or labeling language, each of which may reduce the commercial potential of sotagliflozin.  Even if approved, we and Sanofi might not be successful in commercializing sotagliflozin for type 1 diabetes.  Should we and Sanofi fail to obtain regulatory approval for sotagliflozin in type 1 diabetes or fail to successfully commercialize sotagliflozin upon such regulatory approval, our business and financial condition could be materially harmed and we may be more heavily dependent on the success of our other drug programs.. 17. Table of Contents. Clinical testing of our drug candidates in humans is an inherently risky and time-consuming process that may fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy, which could result in the delay, limitation or prevention of regulatory approval.. In order to obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any products that we or our collaborators may develop in addition to XERMELO, we or our collaborators are required to complete extensive clinical trials in humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates.  We or our collaborators may not be able to obtain authority from the FDA, or other equivalent foreign regulatory agencies to initiate or complete any clinical trials.  In addition, we have limited internal resources for making regulatory filings and interacting with regulatory authorities.. Clinical trials are inherently risky and the results from nonclinical testing of a drug candidate that is under development may not be predictive of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials.  In addition, the results of early human clinical trials may not be predictive of results that will be obtained in larger-scale, advanced stage clinical trials.  A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving positive results in earlier trials.  Although Phase 2 proof-of-concept clinical trials of sotagliflozin in type 2 diabetes patients were positive, we cannot assure you that the Phase 3 clinical development program for sotagliflozin being conducted by Sanofi in type 2 diabetes patients will yield positive results.  Negative or inconclusive results from a nonclinical study or a clinical trial could cause us, our collaborators or the FDA or other equivalent foreign regulatory agencies to terminate a nonclinical study or clinical trial or require that we or our collaborators repeat or modify it.  Furthermore, we, one of our collaborators or a regulatory agency with jurisdiction over the trials may suspend clinical trials at any time if the subjects or patients participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons.. Any nonclinical or clinical test may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities.  Nonclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval.  The FDA or institutional review boards at the medical institutions and healthcare facilities where we or our collaborators sponsor clinical trials may suspend any trial indefinitely if they find deficiencies in the conduct of these trials.  Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA's current Good Clinical Practices.  The FDA and these institutional review boards have authority to oversee our and our collaborators' clinical trials, and the FDA may require large numbers of subjects or patients.  In addition, we or our collaborators must manufacture, or contract for the manufacture of, the drug candidates that we use in our clinical trials under the FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practices.. The rate of completion of clinical trials is dependent, in part, upon the rate of enrollment of patients.  Patient accrual is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, the nature of the study, the existence of competitive clinical trials and the availability of alternative treatments.  Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs and prolonged clinical development, which in turn could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or potential products.. We or our collaborators may not be able to successfully complete any clinical trial of a drug candidate within any specified time period.  In some cases, we or our collaborators may not be able to complete the trial at all. Moreover, clinical trials may not show our drug candidates to be both safe and effective.  Thus, the FDA and other regulatory authorities may not approve any additional drug candidates that we develop for any indication or may limit the approved indications or impose other conditions.. Our drug candidates are subject to a lengthy and uncertain regulatory process that may not result in the necessary regulatory approvals, which could adversely affect our and our collaborators' ability to commercialize products.. Our drug candidates, as well as the activities associated with their research, development and commercialization, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries.  Failure to obtain regulatory approval for any drug candidate would prevent us from commercializing that drug candidate.  Other than XERMELO, we and our collaborators have not received regulatory approval to market any of our drug candidates in any jurisdiction.  The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, and often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the drug candidates involved.  Before a new drug application can be filed with the FDA, the drug candidate must undergo extensive clinical trials, which can take many years and may require substantial expenditures.  Any clinical trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA.  For example, the FDA could determine that the design of a clinical trial is inadequate to produce reliable results.  Furthermore, prior to approving a new drug, the FDA typically requires that the efficacy of the drug be demonstrated in two double-blind, controlled studies.  The regulatory process also requires nonclinical testing, and data obtained from nonclinical and clinical activities are susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval.  In addition, delays or rejections may be encountered based upon changes in regulatory policy for product approval. 18. Table of Contents. during the period of product development and regulatory agency review.  Changes in regulatory approval policy, regulations or statutes or the process for regulatory review during the development or approval periods of our drug candidates may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application.  Even if the FDA or a comparable authority in another country approves a drug candidate, the approval may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use, labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing and/or production of such product and may impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials.  These agencies also may impose various civil or criminal sanctions for failure to comply with regulatory requirements, including withdrawal of product approval.. The commercial success of XERMELO and any other products that we or our collaborators may develop will depend upon the degree of market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payers and the medical community.. Our ability to commercialize XERMELO and our or our collaborators' ability to commercialize any other products that we or they may develop will be highly dependent upon the extent to which XERMELO and such other products gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payers, such as commercial health insurers, Medicare and Medicaid, and the medical community.  If XERMELO and such other products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate adequate product revenues and we may not become profitable.  The degree of market acceptance of XERMELO and such other products will depend upon a number of factors, including:. • the effectiveness, or perceived effectiveness, of our products in comparison to competing products;. • the existence of any significant side effects, as well as their severity in comparison to any competing products;. • potential advantages or disadvantages in relation to alternative treatments;. • current and future indications for which our products may be approved;. • the ability to offer our products for sale at competitive prices;. • relative convenience and ease of administration;. • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and. • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement.. If we are unable to implement and maintain an effective and specialized sales force, marketing infrastructure and distribution capabilities, we will not be able to successfully commercialize XERMELO or any other products that we or our collaborators may develop.. In order to successfully commercialize XERMELO, we have built a marketing organization and a specialized sales force for XERMELO and established distribution capabilities in the United States.  However, we had no prior experience in building and maintaining such a commercialization infrastructure.  Factors that may hinder our efforts to effectively manage and maintain such infrastructure for XERMELO or establish, manage and maintain such infrastructure for other products that we or our collaborators may develop include:. • inability to recruit, retain and effectively manage adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel;. • inability to maintain relationships with third-party logistics providers, specialty pharmacies, third-party manufacturers and other third parties instrumental in the commercial manufacture and distribution of XERMELO and any other products;. • inability to establish or implement internal controls and procedures required in connection with sales of pharmaceutical products;. • inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or convince adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe XERMELO or any other products; and. • lack of complementary products to be offered by our sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines.. 19. Table of Contents. If we are unable to implement and sustain our sales force, marketing infrastructure and distribution capability for XERMELO or any other products, we may not be able to generate any product revenue, may generate increased expenses and may never become profitable.. We will need to continue to expend significant time and resources to train our XERMELO sales force to be credible, persuasive and compliant in discussing XERMELO with the specialists treating the patients indicated under the label.  We will also need to continue to train our sales force to ensure that a consistent and appropriate message about XERMELO is being delivered to our potential customers.  If we are unable to effectively train our sales force and equip them with effective materials, including medical and sales literature to help them inform and educate potential customers about the benefits and risks of XERMELO and its proper administration, our ability to successfully commercialize XERMELO could be diminished, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, stock price and operations.. If we are unable to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers for XERMELO and any other products that we or our collaborators may develop, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer.. Our ability to successfully commercialize XERMELO and any other products that we or our collaborators may develop will be highly dependent on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for such products will be available from third-party payers, including governmental payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private health insurers, including managed care organizations and group purchasing organizations.  Many patients will not be capable of paying themselves for XERMELO and some or all of the other products that we or our collaborators may develop, and will rely on third-party payers to pay for, or subsidize, their medical needs.  If third-party payers do not provide coverage or reimbursement for XERMELO or any products that we or our collaborators may develop, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer.  In addition, even if third-party payers provide some coverage or reimbursement for such products, the availability of such coverage or reimbursement for prescription drugs under private health insurance and managed care plans often varies based on the type of contract or plan purchased.. In addition, in some foreign countries, particularly the countries in the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control.  In these countries, price negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product.  To obtain reimbursement and/or pricing approval in some countries, we or our collaborators may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost effectiveness of our drug candidates or products to other available therapies.  The conduct of such a clinical trial could be expensive and result in delays in the commercialization of our drug candidates.  Third-party payers are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and many third-party payers limit reimbursement for newly approved health care products.  In particular, third-party payers may limit the indications for which they will reimburse patients who use any products that we or our collaborators may develop.  Cost-control initiatives could decrease prices we or our collaborators might establish for products that may be developed, which would result in lower product revenues to us.. We may not be able to manufacture XERMELO and any other products that we or our collaborators may develop in commercial quantities, which would impair our ability to commercialize such products.. Other than XERMELO, our drug candidates have been manufactured in relatively small quantities for nonclinical and clinical trials.  If any of these drug candidates are approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for commercial sale, we or our collaborators will need to manufacture them in larger quantities.  We may not be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity, whether in collaboration with third-party manufacturers or on our own, for any of such drug candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all.  Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve.  If we or our collaborators are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a drug candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that drug candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply.  Our drug candidates require precise, high-quality manufacturing.  The failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business.. We and our collaborators are subject to extensive and rigorous ongoing regulation relating to XERMELO and any other products that we or our collaborators may develop.. We are subject to extensive and rigorous ongoing domestic and foreign government regulation of, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, labeling, promotion, advertising, distribution and marketing of XERMELO and any other products which receive regulatory approvals from the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities.  The failure to comply with these requirements or the identification of safety problems during commercial marketing could lead to the need. 20. Table of Contents. for product marketing restrictions, product withdrawal or recall or other voluntary or regulatory action, which could delay further marketing until the product is brought into compliance.  The failure to comply with these requirements may also subject us or our collaborators to stringent penalties.. We are subject to certain healthcare laws, regulation and enforcement; our failure to comply with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to certain healthcare laws and regulations and enforcement by the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include, without limitation:. • the federal Anti-Kickback Law, which constrains our business activities, which includes our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing policies, and relationships with healthcare providers or other entities, by prohibiting, among other things, persons and entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs;. • federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent;. • federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters;. • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts;. • the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, a United States law which regulates certain financial relationships with foreign government officials (which could include, for example, certain medical professionals);. • federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws, which broadly regulate marketplace activities and activities that potentially harm consumers;. • state and federal government price reporting laws that require us to calculate and report complex pricing metrics to government programs, where such reported price may be used in the calculation of reimbursement and/or discounts on our marketed drugs (participation in these programs and compliance with the applicable requirements may subject us to potentially significant discounts on our products, increased infrastructure costs, and potentially limit our ability to offer certain marketplace discounts); and. • state and federal marketing expenditure tracking and reporting laws, which generally require certain types of expenditures in the United States to be tracked and reported.  Compliance with such requirements may require investment in infrastructure to ensure that tracking is performed properly, and some of these laws result in the public disclosure of various types of payments and relationships, which could potentially have a negative effect on our business and/or increase enforcement scrutiny of our activities.. In addition, certain marketing practices, including off-label promotion, may also violate certain federal and state health regulatory fraud and abuse laws as well as false claims laws, including the civil False Claims Act.  Suits filed under the civil False Claims Act, known as \"qui tam\" actions, can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals, commonly known as \"whistleblowers,\" may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement.  The filing of qui tam actions has caused a number of pharmaceutical, medical device and other healthcare companies to defend a civil False Claims Act action.  When an entity is determined to have violated the civil False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties for each separate false claim.. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we, or our officers or employees, may be subject to penalties, including administrative civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, withdrawal of regulatory approval, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion. 21. Table of Contents. from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs, individual imprisonment, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, additional reporting requirements and oversight if we become subject to a corporate integrity agreement or similar agreement to resolve allegations of non-compliance with these laws, any of which could adversely affect our ability to sell our products or operate our business and also adversely affect our financial results.  Defending against any such actions can be costly, time-consuming and may require significant financial and personnel resources.  Therefore, even if we are successful in defending against any such actions that may be brought against us, our business may be impaired.. Numerous federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. Other countries also have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use and transmission of personal information. In addition, most healthcare providers who may be expected to prescribe our products and from whom we may obtain patient health information are subject to privacy and security requirements under the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA.  Although we are not directly subject to HIPAA, we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a HIPAA-covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA.  The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect our business, including recently enacted laws in a majority of states requiring security breach notification.  These laws could create liability for us or increase our cost of doing business.  International laws, such as the EU Data Privacy Directive and Swiss Federal Act on Data Protection, regulate the processing of personal data within Europe and between European countries and the United States.  Failure to provide adequate privacy protections and maintain compliance with safe harbor mechanisms could jeopardize business transactions across borders and result in significant penalties.. Current healthcare laws and regulations and future legislative or regulatory reforms to the healthcare system may negatively affect our revenues and prospects for profitability.. A primary trend in the United States and some foreign countries is toward reform and cost containment in the health care industry.  The United States and some foreign jurisdictions are considering or have enacted a number of legislative and regulatory proposals that may have the effect of reducing the prices that we are able to charge for XERMELO and other products we or our collaborators may develop.  Healthcare reform measures which may be adopted in the future in the United States and foreign jurisdictions may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and significant downward pressure on the prices drug manufacturers may charge.  As a result, our revenues and prospects for profitability could be significantly harmed.. As a result of the overall trend towards cost-effectiveness criteria and managed healthcare in the United States, third-party payers are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs. They may use tiered reimbursement and may adversely affect demand for XERMELO and other products we or our collaborators may develop by placing them in an expensive tier.  They may also refuse to provide any coverage of uses of approved products for medical indications other than those for which the FDA has granted market approvals.  As a result, significant uncertainty exists as to whether and how much third-party payers will reimburse for newly approved drugs, which in turn will put pressure on the pricing of drugs.  Further, we do not have experience in ensuring approval by applicable third-party payers outside of the United States for coverage and reimbursement of pharmaceutical products.  We also anticipate pricing pressures in connection with the sale of XERMELO and other products we or our collaborators may develop due to the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals.. Pricing for pharmaceutical products has come under increasing scrutiny by governments, legislative bodies and enforcement agencies. These activities may result in actions that have the effect of reducing our revenue or harming our business or reputation.. Many companies in our industry have received a governmental request for documents and information relating to drug pricing and patient support programs.  We may become subject to similar requests, which would require us to incur significant expense and result in distraction for our management team.  Additionally, to the extent there are findings, or even allegations, of improper conduct on the part of our company, such findings could further harm our business, reputation and/or prospects.  It is possible that such inquiries could result in negative publicity or other negative actions that could harm our reputation, changes in our product pricing and distribution strategies, reduced demand for our approved products and/or reduced reimbursement of approved products, including by federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and state health care programs.. 22. Table of Contents. Our competitors may develop products that impair the value of XERMELO or any other products that we or our collaborators may develop.. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are highly diversified and are characterized by rapid technological change.  We and our collaborators face, and will continue to face, intense competition from biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic research institutions, clinical reference laboratories and government agencies that are pursuing research and development activities similar to ours.  In addition, significant delays in the development of our drug candidates could allow our competitors to bring products to market before us, which would impair our or our collaborators' ability to commercialize our drug candidates.  XERMELO and any other products that we or our collaborators develop will compete in highly competitive markets.  Further, our competitors may be more effective at using their technologies to develop commercial products.  Many of the organizations competing with us have greater capital resources, larger research and development staff and facilities, more experience in obtaining regulatory approvals and more extensive product manufacturing and marketing capabilities.  As a result, our competitors may be able to more easily develop products that would render XERMELO and any other products that we or our collaborators develop obsolete and noncompetitive.  For example, dapagliflozin, empagliflozin and canagliflozin are currently being marketed by AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim and Eli Lilly, and Janssen (a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson), respectively, for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.  Each of those products act through SGLT2, one of the targets of sotagliflozin.  In addition, there may be drug candidates of which we are not aware at an earlier stage of development that may compete with our drug candidates.. Risks Related to Our Capital Requirements and Financial Results. We will need additional capital in the future and, if it is unavailable, we will be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our commercialization efforts or product development programs.  If additional capital is not available on reasonable terms, we will be forced to obtain funds, if at all, by entering into financing agreements on unattractive terms.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $310.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and investments.  We anticipate that our existing capital resources and the cash and revenues we expect to derive from product revenues, collaborations and other sources will enable us to fund our currently planned operations for at least the next 12 months.  However, we caution you that we may generate less cash and revenues or incur expenses more rapidly than we currently anticipate.  Our currently planned operations for the next twelve months include the continued commercialization of XERMELO in the United States; preparations with Sanofi for the submission of regulatory applications to market sotagliflozin for type 1 diabetes in the United States and the European Union; preparations for the commercial launch of sotagliflozin for type 1 diabetes in the United States, if approved; the initiation of clinical development of XERMELO for cholangiocarcinoma and neuroendocrine tumors; the continued clinical development of LX2761 for diabetes; and the continued clinical development of LX9211 for neuropathic pain.. Although difficult to accurately predict, the amount of our future capital requirements will be substantial and will depend on many factors, including:. • the success of our sales, marketing, distribution and other commercialization activities for XERMELO in the United States and the revenues we generate from that approved product;. • the success of Ipsen's sales, marketing, distribution and other commercialization activities for XERMELO outside of the United States and Japan;. • our and Sanofi's ability to obtain regulatory approval for the marketing and sale of sotagliflozin for type 1 diabetes;. • if approved, our and Sanofi's ability to successfully commercialize sotagliflozin for type 1 diabetes in the United States and Sanofi's ability to successfully commercialize sotagliflozin for type 1 diabetes outside of the United States and Japan;. • the progress and scope of Sanofi's development activities with respect to sotagliflozin in type 2 diabetes patients;. • the timing, progress and results of our clinical trials of XERMELO, LX2761 and LX9211;. • the amount and timing of payments, if any, under our existing collaboration agreements with Sanofi, Ipsen and other entities and any future collaboration agreements;. • the amount and timing of our research, development and commercialization expenditures;. • future results from clinical trials of our other drug candidates;. 23. Table of Contents. • the cost and timing of regulatory approvals and commercialization of additional drug candidates that we successfully develop;. • the market acceptance and commercial success of additional products that we successfully develop and commercially launch;. • the effect of competing programs and products, and of technological and market developments;. • the filing, maintenance, prosecution, defense and enforcement of patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and. • the cost and timing of establishing or contracting for commercialization capabilities of any other approved drug candidate.. Our capital requirements have and will continue to be substantial as we market XERMELO in the United States, prepare for the submission of regulatory applications to market sotagliflozin for type 1 diabetes in the United States and the European Union, prepare for the commercial launch of sotagliflozin for type 1 diabetes in the United States, continue to share in the funding of the type 2 diabetes development costs for sotagliflozin; initiate clinical trials of XERMELO for cholangiocarcinoma and neuroendocrine tumors, continue to conduct early stage clinical trials of LX2761 and LX9211 and advance new drug candidates into clinical development.  Our capital requirements will also be affected by any expenditures we make in connection with license agreements and acquisitions of and investments in complementary products and technologies.  For all of these reasons, our future capital requirements cannot easily be quantified.. If our capital resources are insufficient to meet future capital requirements, we will need to raise additional funds to continue our currently planned operations.  Our ability to raise additional capital is dependent on a number of factors, including the market demand for our securities, which itself is subject to a number of pharmaceutical development and business risks and uncertainties, as well as uncertainty that we would be able to raise such additional capital at a price or on terms that are favorable to us.  If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our then-existing stockholders will experience dilution and the terms of any new equity securities may have preferences over our common stock.  The affirmative and restrictive covenants and the pledge of substantially all of our assets as collateral under our existing term loan with BioPharma Credit PLC and BioPharma Credit Investments IV Sub LP, or the BioPharma Term Loan, restrict our ability to raise additional capital by issuing debt securities.  We cannot be certain that additional financing, whether debt or equity, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all.  We may be unable to raise sufficient additional capital on reasonable terms, and if so, we will be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our clinical development programs or commercialization efforts or obtain funds, if at all, by entering into financing agreements on unattractive terms.. We have a history of net losses, and we expect to continue to incur net losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability.. We have incurred net losses since our inception, including net losses of $129.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, $141.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 and $4.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2015.  As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.4 billion.  Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with successfully developing and commercializing drugs, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or whether or when we will become profitable, if at all.  The size of our net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of decline or growth in our revenues and on the amount of our expenses.  We expect to continue to incur significant expenses over the next several years as we expect to make significant investments in the commercialization of XERMELO in the United States, the commercialization of sotagliflozin for type 1 diabetes in the United States, if approved, and the ongoing clinical development of XERMELO, sotagliflozin and our other drug candidates.. We commercially launched XERMELO following regulatory approval in February 2017 for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome diarrhea in combination with SSA therapy in adults inadequately controlled by SSA therapy in the United States.  Prior to the launch of XERMELO, we derived substantially all of our revenues from strategic collaborations and other research and development collaborations and technology licenses.. Future revenues from our commercialization of XERMELO are uncertain because they depend on a number of factors, including market acceptance of XERMELO, the success of our sales, marketing, distribution and other commercialization activities and the cost and availability of reimbursement for XERMELO.. Future revenues from our existing collaborations are uncertain because they depend, to a large degree, on the achievement of milestones and payment of royalties we earn from any future products developed under the collaborations.  Our ability to secure future revenue-generating agreements will depend upon our ability to address the needs of our potential future. 24. Table of Contents. collaborators and licensees, and to negotiate agreements that we believe are in our long-term best interests.  We may determine, as we have with certain of our drug candidates, including XERMELO in the United States and Japan, that our interests are better served by retaining rights to our discoveries and advancing our therapeutic programs to a later stage, which could limit our near-term revenues and increase expenses.  Because of these and other factors, our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future, and we do not believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are a good indication of our future performance.. We expect to spend significant amounts to fund our commercialization activities with respect to XERMELO in the United States, our preparations for the commercial launch of sotagliflozin for type 1 diabetes in the United States and our nonclinical and clinical development activities, including the conduct of ongoing and planned clinical trials for XERMELO, sotagliflozin, LX2761 and LX9211.  As a result, we will need to generate substantial additional revenues to achieve profitability.  Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis.. Our operating results have been and likely will continue to fluctuate, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance.. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future.  A number of factors, many of which we cannot control, could subject our operating results to volatility, including:. • our ability to successfully commercialize XERMELO in the United States and the amount of revenues generated from such commercialization efforts;. • our and Sanofi's ability to obtain regulatory approval for the marketing and sale of sotagliflozin for type 1 diabetes;. • the amount and timing of payments, if any, under our existing collaboration agreements with Sanofi, Ipsen and other entities;. • the success of our ongoing preclinical and clinical development efforts;. • the timing and amount of expenses incurred with respect to our preclinical and clinical development and commercialization efforts;. • our success in establishing new collaborations and technology licenses, and the timing of such arrangements;. • the success rate of our development efforts leading to opportunities for new collaborations and licenses, as well as milestone payments and royalties;. • the timing and willingness of our collaborators to commercialize pharmaceutical products that would result in milestone payments and royalties;. • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and technologies;. • general and industry-specific economic conditions, which may affect our and our collaborators' research and development expenditures.. Because of these and other factors, including the risks and uncertainties described in this section, our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future.  Due to the likelihood of fluctuations in our revenues and expenses, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance.. We have substantial indebtedness that may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business.. We have incurred $245.7 million of indebtedness.  Although the affirmative and restrictive covenants and the pledge of substantially all of our assets as collateral under the BioPharma Term Loan restrict our ability to obtain additional debt financing, we could in the future incur additional indebtedness beyond such amount.  Our substantial debt combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments could have significant adverse consequences, including:. 25. Table of Contents. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to the payment of interest on, and principal of, our debt, which will reduce the amounts available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product commercialization and development efforts and other general corporate purposes;. • increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and market conditions;. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and. • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or better debt servicing options.. We intend to satisfy our current and future debt service obligations with our existing cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities and funds from external sources.  However, we may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to pay the amounts due under our existing debt.  Funds from external sources may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all.  In addition, a failure to comply with the covenants under our existing debt instruments could result in an event of default under those instruments.  In the event of an acceleration of amounts due under our debt instruments as a result of an event of default, including upon the occurrence of an event that would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, properties, assets or condition or a failure to pay any amount due, we may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to repay our indebtedness or to make any accelerated payments, and the lenders could seek to enforce their security interests in the collateral securing such indebtedness.. If we do not effectively manage our affirmative and restrictive covenants under the BioPharma Term Loan, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  In addition, we may not achieve the amount of XERMELO net sales required for us to access the second tranche available under the BioPharma Term Loan.. Our obligations under the BioPharma Term Loan are secured by a first lien security interest in substantially all of our assets.  In addition, the BioPharma Term Loan requires that we comply with certain affirmative and restrictive covenants, including among other things, covenants restricting dispositions, fundamental changes in our business, mergers or acquisitions, indebtedness, encumbrances, distributions, investments, transactions with affiliates and subordinated debt, any of which could restrict our business and operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take specified actions to take advantage of certain business opportunities that may be presented to us.  Our failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in a default under the BioPharma Term Loan, which could permit the lenders to declare all or part of any outstanding borrowings to be immediately due and payable.  If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could enforce the security interest granted to them to secure that debt, which would seriously harm our business.. Moreover, the second $50.0 million tranche is only available for draw by March 2019 if XERMELO net sales are greater than $25 million in the preceding quarter.  We may be unable to achieve such amount of XERMELO net sales, in which case our liquidity could be negatively affected.. Risks Related to Our Relationships with Third Parties. We are significantly dependent upon our collaborations with Ipsen, Sanofi and other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.  If pharmaceutical products are not successfully and timely developed and commercialized under our collaborations, our opportunities to generate revenues from milestones and royalties will be greatly reduced.. We have entered into collaboration agreements with Ipsen for the commercialization of XERMELO outside of the United States and Japan and with Sanofi for the worldwide (excluding Japan) development and commercialization of sotagliflozin.  We have also established collaborative arrangements with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies with respect to the research, development and commercialization of drug candidates from other programs.  We have derived a substantial majority of our revenues to date from these strategic collaborations and other research and development collaborations and technology licenses.  Future revenues from our existing collaborations depend upon the achievement of milestones and payment of royalties we earn from any future products developed under the collaborations.  If our relationship terminates with any of our collaborators, particularly Ipsen and Sanofi, our reputation in the business and scientific community may suffer and revenues will be negatively impacted to the extent such losses are not offset by additional collaboration agreements.  If milestones are not achieved under our collaborations or our collaborators are unable to successfully develop and commercialize products from which milestones and royalties are payable, we will not earn the revenues contemplated by those collaborations.. 26. Table of Contents. We have limited or no control over the resources that any collaborator may devote to the development and commercialization of products under our alliances.  For example, Sanofi is responsible for all clinical development activities relating to sotagliflozin for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and we have limited influence on the manner in which Sanofi may conduct such clinical development.  Any of our present or future collaborators may not perform their obligations as expected. These collaborators may breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct research, development or commercialization activities successfully or in a timely manner.  Further, our collaborators may elect not to develop pharmaceutical products arising out of our collaborative arrangements or may not devote sufficient resources to the development, regulatory approval, manufacture, marketing or sale of these products.  If any of these events occurs, we may not receive collaboration revenue or otherwise realize anticipated benefits from such collaborations, our product development efforts may be delayed and our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Conflicts with our collaborators could jeopardize the success of our collaborative agreements and harm our product development efforts.. We may pursue opportunities in specific disease and therapeutic modality fields that could result in conflicts with our collaborators, if any of our collaborators takes the position that our internal activities overlap with those activities that are exclusive to our collaboration.  Moreover, disagreements could arise with our collaborators over rights to our intellectual property or our rights to share in any of the future revenues of compounds or therapeutic approaches developed by our collaborators.  Any conflict with or among our collaborators could result in the termination of our collaborative agreements, delay collaborative research or development activities, impair our ability to renew or obtain future collaborative agreements or lead to costly and time consuming litigation.  Conflicts with our collaborators could also have a negative impact on our relationship with existing collaborators, materially impairing our business and revenues.  Some of our collaborators are also potential competitors or may become competitors in the future.  Our collaborators could develop competing products, preclude us from entering into collaborations with their competitors or terminate their agreements with us prematurely.  Any of these events could harm our product development efforts.. We depend on third-party manufacturers, including sole source suppliers, to manufacture commercial quantities of XERMELO.  We may not be able to maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control.. We rely on a network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture and supply XERMELO for commercial sale.  As a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, including sole source suppliers for certain steps in the manufacture of XERMELO, we could be subject to significant supply disruptions.  Our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step endeavor.  Third-party contract manufacturers procure raw materials, convert these raw materials into API, and then convert the API into final dosage form. Establishing and managing this supply chain requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third party contractual relationships.  Although we attempt to effectively manage the business relationships with companies in our supply chain, we do not have control over their operations.. We require our own commercial supply of XERMELO for sale in the United States, and are required under our collaboration agreement to supply Ipsen's commercial requirements of XERMELO in the European Union and other territories outside of the United States and Japan once approved in such jurisdictions.  We currently rely, and expect to continue to rely, on sole source third-party manufacturers to produce final drug product and package and label XERMELO.  While we have identified and expect to qualify and engage back-up third-party manufacturers as additional or alternative suppliers for the production of final drug product and packaging and labeling of XERMELO, we currently do not have such arrangements in place.  Moreover, some of these alternative manufacturers will need to be approved by the FDA before we can use them for manufacturing XERMELO.  It is also possible that supplies of materials that cannot be second-sourced can be managed with inventory planning.  There can be no assurance, however, that failure of any of our sole source third-party manufacturers to meet our and Ipsen's commercial demands for XERMELO in a timely manner, or our failure to engage qualified additional or back-up suppliers for the production of final drug product and packaging and labeling of XERMELO, would not have a material adverse effect on commercialization of XERMELO and our business.. Supply disruptions may result from a number of factors, including shortages in product raw materials, labor or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely.  Any supply disruptions could disrupt sales of XERMELO, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.. We rely on a single third-party logistics provider and two independent specialty pharmacies for distribution of XERMELO in the United States, and their failure to distribute XERMELO effectively would adversely affect sales of XERMELO.. 27. Table of Contents. We rely on a single third-party logistics provider for shipping and warehousing of our commercial supply of XERMELO and two independent specialty pharmacies for dispensation of XERMELO to patients in fulfillment of prescriptions in the United States.  Although our third-party logistics provider stores our commercial supply of XERMELO at two separate warehouses, the use of a single third-party logistics provider increases the risk that a fire or damage from another type of disaster at either of the warehouses may result in a disruption of our commercialization efforts.  A specialty pharmacy is a pharmacy that specializes in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions, which often require a high level of patient education and ongoing management.  The use of specialty pharmacies involves certain additional risks, including, but not limited to, risks that these specialty pharmacies will:. • not provide us accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, the number of patients who are using XERMELO or complaints about XERMELO;. • reduce or discontinue their efforts to sell or support or otherwise not effectively sell or support XERMELO;. • not devote the resources necessary to sell XERMELO in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect;. • be unable to satisfy their financial obligations to us; or. • cease operations.. If our third-party logistics provider or either or both of our specialty pharmacies do not fulfill their contractual obligations to us, or refuse or fail to adequately distribute XERMELO and serve patients, or the agreements are terminated without adequate notice, shipments of XERMELO, and associated revenues, would be adversely affected.  In addition, we expect that it may take a significant amount of time if we were required to change our third-party logistics provider or either of our specialty pharmacies.. We rely on third parties to carry out drug development activities.. We rely on clinical research organizations and other third-party contractors to carry out many of our drug development activities, including the performance of nonclinical laboratory and animal tests under the FDA's current Good Laboratory Practices regulations and the conduct of clinical trials of our drug candidates in accordance with protocols we establish.  If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, our drug development activities may be delayed, suspended or terminated.  Such a failure by these third parties could significantly impair our ability to develop and commercialize the affected drug candidates.. We lack the capability to manufacture materials for nonclinical studies, clinical trials or commercial sales and rely on third parties to manufacture our drug candidates, which may harm or delay our product development and commercialization efforts.. We currently do not have the manufacturing capabilities or experience necessary to produce materials for nonclinical studies, clinical trials or commercial sales and intend in the future to continue to rely on collaborators and third-party contractors to produce such materials.  We will rely on selected manufacturers to deliver materials on a timely basis and to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including the current Good Manufacturing Practices of the FDA, which relate to manufacturing and quality control activities.  These manufacturers may not be able to produce material on a timely basis or manufacture material at the quality level or in the quantity required to meet our development timelines and applicable regulatory requirements.  In addition, there are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under the FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practices and that are capable of producing such materials, and we may experience difficulty finding manufacturers with adequate capacity for our needs.  If we are unable to contract for the production of sufficient quantity and quality of materials on acceptable terms, our product development and commercialization efforts may be delayed.  Moreover, noncompliance with the FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practices can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil and criminal penalties, product recalls or seizures, suspension of production, failure to obtain marketing approval and withdrawal, suspension or revocation of marketing approvals.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to use our products and technologies, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market.. Our success will depend in part upon our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of the intellectual property related to our products and technologies.  The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies,. 28. Table of Contents. including our patent position, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions.  We will be able to protect our intellectual property rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our products and technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets.  We will continue to apply for patents covering our products and technologies as, where and when we deem appropriate.  However, pending patent applications do not provide protection against competitors because they are not enforceable until they issue as patents.  Further, the disclosures contained in our current and future patent applications may not be sufficient to meet statutory requirements for patentability and our applications may fail to result in issued patents.  Once issued, patents still may not provide commercially meaningful protection.  Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from developing competing products and technologies.  Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative products or technologies or design around our patents.  If anyone infringes upon our or our collaborators' patent rights, enforcing these rights may be difficult, costly and time-consuming and, as a result, it may not be cost-effective or otherwise expedient to pursue litigation to enforce those patent rights.. Our patents may be challenged by third parties as invalid or unenforceable under U.S. or foreign laws, or they may be infringed by third parties.  As a result, we may be involved in the defense and enforcement of our patent or other intellectual property rights in a court of law, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office inter partes review or reexamination proceeding, foreign opposition proceeding or related legal and administrative proceeding in the United States and elsewhere.  The costs of defending our patents or enforcing our proprietary rights in post-issuance administrative proceedings and litigation may be substantial and the outcome can be uncertain.  An adverse outcome may allow third parties to use our intellectual property without a license and negatively impact our business.. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, third parties may have pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that cover the production, manufacture, commercialization or use of our products and drug candidates.   If any such patents are issued to other entities, we will be unable to obtain patent protection for the same or similar discoveries that we make relating to our products and drug candidates.  Moreover, we may be blocked from using our drug targets or drug candidates or developing or commercializing our products and other drug candidates, or may be required to obtain a license that may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all.  Further, others may discover uses for our drug targets and drug candidates other than those covered in our issued or pending patents, and these other uses may be separately patentable.  Even if we have a patent claim on a particular technology or product, the holder of a patent covering the use of that technology or product could exclude us from selling a product that is based on the same use of that product.. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions.  Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties (for example, if the patent owner has failed to \"work\" the invention in that country or the third party has patented improvements).  In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors.  In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent.  Compulsory licensing of life-saving drugs is also becoming increasingly popular in developing countries either through direct legislation or international initiatives.  Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our products and drug candidates, which could limit our potential revenue opportunities.  Moreover, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patent and other intellectual property protection, which makes it difficult to stop infringement.. We rely on trade secret protection for some of our confidential and proprietary information.  We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information and trade secrets, but these measures may not provide adequate protection.  While we seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants, we cannot assure you that our proprietary information will not be disclosed, or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets.  In addition, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets.. We may be involved in patent litigation and other disputes regarding intellectual property rights and may require licenses from third parties for our planned nonclinical and clinical development and commercialization activities.  We may not prevail in any such litigation or other dispute or be able to obtain required licenses.. Our products and those of our collaborators, as well as our nonclinical and clinical development efforts, may give rise to claims that they infringe the patents of others.  We are aware that other companies and institutions are developing products acting through the same drug targets through which some of our drug candidates currently in clinical development act, have conducted research on many of the same targets that we have identified and have filed patent applications potentially covering drug targets that we have identified and certain therapeutic products addressing such targets.  In some cases, patents have issued from these applications.  In addition, many companies and institutions have well-established patent portfolios directed to. 29. Table of Contents. common techniques, methods and means of developing, producing and manufacturing pharmaceutical products.  These or other companies or institutions could bring legal actions against us or our collaborators for damages or to stop us or our collaborators from engaging in certain nonclinical or clinical development activities or from manufacturing and marketing therapeutic products that allegedly infringe their patent rights.  If any of these actions are successful, in addition to our potential liability for damages, these entities would likely require us or our collaborators to obtain a license in order to continue engaging in the infringing activities or to manufacture or market the infringing therapeutic products or may force us to terminate such activities or manufacturing and marketing efforts.. We may deem it advisable to pursue litigation against others to enforce our patents and intellectual property rights and may be the subject of litigation brought by third parties to enforce their patent and intellectual property rights.  In addition, we may become involved in litigation based on intellectual property indemnification undertakings that we have given to certain of our collaborators.  Patent litigation is expensive and requires substantial amounts of management attention.  The eventual outcome of any such litigation is uncertain and involves substantial risks.. We believe that there will continue to be significant litigation in our industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights.  We have expended and many of our competitors have expended and are continuing to expend significant amounts of time, money and management resources on intellectual property litigation.  If we become involved in future intellectual property litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our resources and could negatively affect our results of operations.. Data breaches and cyber-attacks could compromise our intellectual property or other sensitive information and cause significant damage to our business and reputation.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect, maintain and transmit sensitive data on our networks and systems, including our intellectual property and proprietary or confidential business information (such as research data and personal information) and confidential information with respect to our customers, clinical trial patients and our business partners.  We have also outsourced significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and, as a result, third parties may or could have access to our confidential information.  The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our business and reputation.  We believe that companies have been increasingly subject to a wide variety of security incidents, cyber-attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access.  These threats can come from a variety of sources, ranging in sophistication from an individual hacker to a state-sponsored attack and motive (including corporate espionage).  Cyber threats may be generic, or they may be custom-crafted against our information systems.  Our network and storage applications and those of our vendors may be subject to unauthorized access by hackers or breached due to operator error, malfeasance or other system disruptions.  It is often difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such incidents and the damage caused by such incidents.  These data breaches and any unauthorized access or disclosure of our information or intellectual property could compromise our intellectual property and expose sensitive business information.  A data security breach could also lead to public exposure of personal information of our clinical trial patients, customers and others.  Cyber-attacks could cause us to incur significant remediation costs, result in product development delays, disrupt key business operations and divert attention of management and key information technology resources.  Our network security and data recovery measures and those of our vendors may not be adequate to protect against such security breaches and disruptions.  These incidents could also subject us to liability, expose us to significant expense and cause significant harm to our reputation and business.. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, our employees or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.. Many of our employees and independent contractors were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors.  We may be subject to claims that these employees, independent contractors or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers.  Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims.  Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention.  If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying money claims, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel.  A loss of key research personnel and/or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain drug candidates, which could severely harm our business.. Risks Related to Employees and Facilities Operations. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected.. 30. Table of Contents. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience growth in the number of our employees and in the scope of our operations.  This growth places significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources, and our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our growth.  To effectively manage our growth, we must continue to improve existing, and implement new, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and must expand, train and manage our growing employee base, and there can be no assurance that we will effectively manage our growth without experiencing operating inefficiencies or control deficiencies.  We expect that we may need to increase our medical, clinical, commercial and other personnel, and recruiting and retaining qualified individuals is difficult.  If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unsuccessful in recruiting qualified personnel when advisable, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected.. The loss of key personnel or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel could impair our ability to operate and expand our operations.. We are highly dependent upon the principal members of our management, as well as medical, clinical and commercial staff, the loss of whose services might adversely impact the achievement of our objectives.  Retaining and, where advisable, recruiting qualified medical, clinical and commercial personnel will be critical to support activities related to successfully executing on our commercial plan for XERMELO and advancing our nonclinical and clinical development programs for sotagliflozin and our other drug programs.  Competition is intense for experienced medical, clinical and commercial personnel, and we may be unable to retain or recruit such personnel with the expertise or experience necessary to allow us to successfully develop and commercialize our products.  Further, all of our employees are employed \"at will\" and, therefore, may leave our employment at any time.. Facility security breaches may disrupt our operations, subject us to liability and harm our operating results.. Any break-in or trespass of our facilities that results in the misappropriation, theft, sabotage or any other type of security breach with respect to our proprietary and confidential information, including research or clinical data, or that results in damage to our equipment and assets could subject us to liability and have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition.. Our facilities are located near coastal zones, and the occurrence of a hurricane or other disaster could damage our facilities and equipment, which could harm our operations.. Our facilities are located in The Woodlands, Texas and Basking Ridge, New Jersey, and therefore our facilities are vulnerable to damage from hurricanes.  We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fire, floods, power loss, communications failures, terrorism and similar events and any insurance we may maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses.  If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities could be seriously, or potentially completely, impaired.. Risks Related to Environmental and Product Liability. We have used hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly.. Our research and development processes have historically involved the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials.  Our operations have produced hazardous waste products.  We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials.  Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials.  We may face liability for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials, and such liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets.  Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts.. In addition, our collaborators may use hazardous materials in connection with our collaborative efforts. In the event of a lawsuit or investigation, we could be held responsible for any injury caused to persons or property by exposure to, or release of, these hazardous materials used by these parties.  Further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations.. 31. Table of Contents. Our business has a substantial risk of product liability and we face potential product liability exposure far in excess of our limited insurance coverage.. We may be held liable if XERMELO or any other product that we or our collaborators develop or commercialize, or any product that is made with the use or incorporation of any of our technologies, causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale.  Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims could result in decreased demand for our products and product candidates, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of patients from our clinical trials, product recall, substantial monetary awards to third parties and the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop.  These claims might be made directly by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling or testing our products.  We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials and commercial activities.  However, our insurance may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for expenses or losses we may suffer.  Moreover, if insurance coverage becomes more expensive, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability.  On occasion, juries have awarded large judgments in class action lawsuits for claims based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects.  In addition, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, in general, have been subject to significant medical malpractice litigation.  A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could harm our reputation and business.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Invus, L.P., Invus C.V. and their affiliates own a controlling interest in our outstanding common stock and may have interests which conflict with those of our other stockholders.. Invus, L.P. and Invus C.V., which we collectively refer to as Invus, and their affiliates currently own approximately 59.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and are thereby able to control the election and removal of our directors and determine our corporate and management policies, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales, the amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws and other significant corporate transactions.  This concentration of ownership may delay or deter possible changes in control of our company, which may reduce the value of an investment in our common stock.  The interests of Invus and its affiliates may not be aligned with the interests of other holders of our common stock.. Invus has additional rights under our stockholders' agreement with Invus, L.P. relating to the membership of our board of directors, which provides Invus with substantial influence over significant corporate matters.. Under our stockholders' agreement with Invus, L.P., Invus has the right to designate a number of directors equal to the percentage of all the outstanding shares of our common stock owned by Invus and its affiliates, rounded up to the nearest whole number of directors.  Invus has designated three of the nine current members of our board of directors.  While Invus has not presently exercised its director designation rights in full, it may exercise them at any time in the future in its sole discretion.  To facilitate the exercise of such rights, we have agreed, upon written request from Invus, to take all necessary steps in accordance with our obligations under the stockholders' agreement to (1) increase the number of directors to the number specified by Invus (which number shall be no greater than reasonably necessary for the exercise of Invus' director designation rights under the stockholders' agreement) and (2) cause the appointment to the newly created directorships of directors so designated by Invus pursuant to its rights under the stockholders' agreement.. Invus also has the right to require proportionate representation of Invus-appointed directors on the audit, compensation and corporate governance committees of our board of directors, subject to certain restrictions.  Invus-designated directors currently serve as one of the three members of each of the compensation committee and the corporate governance committee of our board of directors.  No Invus-designated directors currently serve on the audit committee of our board of directors.. The provisions of the stockholders' agreement relating to Invus' rights to designate members of our board of directors and its audit, compensation and corporate governance committees will terminate if the percentage of all the outstanding shares of our common stock owned by Invus and its affiliates falls below 10%.  Invus also has the right to terminate these provisions at any time in its discretion.. Our stock price may be extremely volatile.. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile, and we believe the trading price of our common stock will remain highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to factors such as the following, many of which we cannot control:. 32. Table of Contents. • the commercial success of XERMELO and the revenues we generate from sales of XERMELO;. • adverse results or delays in our or our collaborators' clinical trials;. • the timing and achievement of milestones under our collaboration agreements;. • the announcement of FDA approval or non-approval, or delays in the FDA review process, of our or our collaborators' drug candidates or those of our competitors or actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our, our collaborators' or our competitors' clinical trials;. • actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to XERMELO, sotagliflozin and our other drug candidates;. • the announcement of new products by our competitors;. • quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations;. • developments in our relationships with our collaborators, including conflicts, litigation or the termination or modification of our agreements;. • the announcement of an in-licensed drug candidate or strategic acquisition;. • litigation, including intellectual property infringement and product liability lawsuits, involving us;. • failure to achieve operating results projected by securities analysts;. • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;. • the satisfaction of outstanding debt obligations or entry into new financing arrangements;. • developments in the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industry;. • sales of large blocks of our common stock or sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders;. • departures of key personnel or board members;. • FDA or international regulatory actions;. • third-party coverage and reimbursement policies;. • disposition of any of our drug programs or other technologies; and. • other factors, including general market, economic and political conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors.. These factors may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  In addition, the stock markets in general, and the markets for biotechnology and pharmaceutical stocks in particular, have historically experienced significant volatility that has often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies.  For example, negative publicity regarding drug pricing and price increases by pharmaceutical companies has negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, the markets for biotechnology and pharmaceutical stocks.  Likewise, the broader financial markets could experience significant volatility that could also negatively impact the markets for biotechnology and pharmaceutical stocks.  These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.  Excessive volatility may continue for an extended period of time.. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted.  A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business.. 33. Table of Contents. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, may depress our stock price.. A substantial number of shares of our common stock is reserved for issuance upon conversion of notes evidencing our current indebtedness, upon the exercise of stock options and upon vesting of restricted stock units.  If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued upon the conversion of notes, exercise of stock options or vesting of restricted stock units) in the public market, or if the market perceives that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could fall and it may become more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate.  For example, following an acquisition, a significant number of shares of our common stock held by new stockholders may become freely tradable or holders of registration rights could cause us to register their shares for resale.  Sales of these shares of common stock held by existing stockholders could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. Conversion of our 5.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2021 may dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their notes, or may otherwise depress the price of our common stock.. The conversion of some or all of our 5.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2021 will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver shares upon conversion of any of the notes.  Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock.  In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business.  If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline.  If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. We may engage in future acquisitions, which may be expensive and time consuming and from which we may not realize anticipated benefits.. We may acquire additional businesses, technologies and products if we determine that these businesses, technologies and products complement our existing technology or otherwise serve our strategic goals.  If we do undertake any transactions of this sort, the process of integrating an acquired business, technology or product may result in operating difficulties and expenditures and may not be achieved in a timely and non-disruptive manner, if at all, and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business.  If we fail to integrate acquired businesses, technologies or products effectively or if key employees of an acquired business leave, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition would be jeopardized.  Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, such as increased revenues and earnings or enhanced business synergies.  Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, which could materially impair our results of operations and financial condition."
