[1] "Item 1A.   Risk Factors. The following factors are the most significant factors that can impact year-to-year comparisons and may affect the future performance of our businesses. New risks may emerge, and management cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance.. Risks associated with market conditions. Slowdowns or changes in trends in the retail, travel, restaurant and bar or entertainment industries may negatively impact demand for our products.. Our business is dependent on business and personal discretionary spending in the retail, travel, restaurant and bar or entertainment industries. Business and personal discretionary spending may decline during general economic downturns or during periods of uncertainty about economic conditions. In addition, austerity and other regulatory measures adopted by some governments may cause consumers in some markets that we serve to reduce or postpone spending. Consumers also may reduce or postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news, higher fuel and energy costs, higher taxes and healthcare costs and/or declines in income or asset values. Additionally, expenditures in the travel, restaurant and bar or entertainment industries may decline after incidents of terrorism, during periods of geopolitical conflict in which travelers become concerned about safety issues, during periods of severe weather or during periods when travel or entertainment might involve health-related risks such as severe outbreaks, epidemics or pandemics of contagious disease.. Changes in trends, including those impacting the restaurant and bar industry and the retail channel of distribution, also may negatively impact demand for our products. For example, shifts from dining at full-service restaurants to dining at quick-serve restaurants and groceraunts, or from dining at chain restaurants to dining at locally-owned restaurants, as well as a trend toward home delivery of meal kits, may result in reduced demand for our products in the foodservice channel of distribution. Similarly, the rapid shift in retail traffic from brick-and-mortar stores to internet sales may outpace our nascent e-commerce capability, which we launched in mid-2017.. 10. Table of Contents. An inability to meet the demand for new products may adversely impact our ability to compete effectively and to grow our business.. Our strategy depends in part on the timing and market acceptance of new product offerings and our ability to continually renew our pipeline of new products and bring those products to market. This ability may be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development, such as the inability to identify viable new products, obtain adequate intellectual property protection, or gain market acceptance of new products, as well as by difficulties or longer-than-expected lead times in sourcing products. There are no guarantees that new products will prove to be commercially successful or profitable.. An inability to develop new or expand existing customer relationships may adversely impact our ability to grow our business.. Our ability to grow our business depends in part on our ability to develop new customer relationships and to expand relationships with existing customers. Failure to develop and expand such relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Changing industry and market conditions may dictate strategic decisions to restructure some business units and discontinue others. These decisions may require us to record material restructuring charges.. In the past, we have recorded restructuring charges related to involuntary employee terminations, various facility abandonments, and various other restructuring activities. We continually evaluate ways to reduce our operating expenses through new restructuring opportunities, including more effective utilization of our assets, workforce, and operating facilities. In addition, changing industry and market conditions may dictate strategic decisions to restructure some business units and discontinue others. As a result, there is a risk, which is increased during economic downturns and with expanded global operations, that we may incur material restructuring charges in the future.. We face intense competition and competitive pressures that could adversely affect demand for our products and our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is highly competitive, with the principal competitive factors being customer service, price, product quality, new product development, brand name, delivery time and breadth of product offerings. Advantages or disadvantages in any of these competitive factors may be sufficient to cause the customer to consider changing providers of the kinds of products that we sell.. Competitors include other glass tableware manufacturers, including large multinational companies such as Arc International (a French company) and numerous manufacturers in Europe, Asia Pacific and the Americas; a variety of ceramic dinnerware and metalware manufacturers throughout the world; and a variety of sourcing or marketing companies. In addition, other products such as plastic and melamine compete with our glass tableware and ceramic dinnerware products.. Demand for our products may be adversely impacted by increased competitive pressures caused by the provision of subsidies by foreign countries to our competitors based in those countries; national and international boycotts and embargoes of other countries or U.S. imports and/or exports; the raising of tariff rates on, or increase of non-tariff trade barriers that apply to imports of our products to foreign countries; the lowering of tariff rates on imports into the U.S. of our foreign competitors' products; and other changes to international agreements that improve access to the U.S. market for our competitors.. In addition, the cost-competitiveness of our products may be adversely affected by inflationary pressures that cause us to increase the prices of our products in order to maintain their profitability. In that connection, some of our competitors may have greater financial and capital resources than we do and continue to invest heavily to achieve increased production efficiencies. Competitors may have incorporated more advanced technology in their manufacturing processes, including more advanced automation techniques. Our labor and energy costs also may be higher than those of some foreign producers of glass tableware.. The cost-competitiveness of our products, as compared to foreign competition, also may be reduced as a result of major fluctuations in the value of the euro, the Mexican peso, the Chinese yuan, which we refer to as the \"RMB,\" or the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar and other major currencies. For example, over the last two years the U.S. dollar has appreciated substantially against the Mexican peso, as a result of which the purchasing power of the peso effectively has been reduced compared to the U.S. dollar, making our U.S.-manufactured products more expensive in Mexico compared to the products of local competitors, and making products manufactured by our foreign competitors in Mexico more cost-competitive in the U.S. with our U.S.-manufactured products.. Our Mexican pension and U.S. and non-U.S. post-retirement welfare plans are unfunded; in the future, levels of funding of our U.S. pension plans could decline and our pension expense could materially increase.. 11. Table of Contents. We have not funded, and under Mexican law we are not obligated to fund, our Mexican pension plan. As of December 31, 2017, the unfunded amount of the projected benefit obligation for the Mexican pension plan was $32.0 million. In addition, although we have closed participation in our U.S. pension and post-retirement welfare plans, many of our employees participate in, and many of our former employees are entitled to benefits under, our U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement welfare plans.. In connection with our employee pension and post-retirement welfare plans, we are exposed to market risks associated with changes in the various capital markets. Changes in long-term interest rates affect the discount rate that is used to measure our obligations and related expense. Our total pension and post-retirement welfare expense, including pension settlement charges, for all U.S. and non-U.S. plans was $7.4 million and $8.4 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We expect our total pension and post-retirement welfare expense for all U.S. and non-U.S. plans to be $6.9 million in 2018. Volatility in the capital markets affects the performance of our pension plan asset performance and related pension expense. Based on 2017 year-end data, sensitivity to these key market risk factors is as follows:. • A change of 1 percent in the discount rate would change our annual pretax pension and post-retirement welfare expense by approximately $3.4 million.. • A change of 1 percent in the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would change annual pretax pension expense by approximately $3.2 million.. Declines in interest rates or the market value of securities held by our U.S. pension plan, or certain other changes, could materially reduce the funded status of those plans and affect our pension expense and the level and timing of minimum required contributions to the plans under applicable law.. Natural gas, the principal fuel we use to manufacture our products, is subject to fluctuating prices that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Natural gas is the primary source of energy in most of our production processes. We do not have long-term contracts for natural gas and therefore are subject to market variables and widely fluctuating prices. Consequently, our operating results are strongly linked to the cost of natural gas. We utilize natural gas swap contracts with respect to our North American manufacturing facilities, and we aim to hedge 40 to 70 percent of our anticipated natural gas needs there. With respect to our international facilities, we utilize fixed-price contracts to fix a portion of our natural gas needs. In some countries in which we operate, including China, our ability to put in place fixed-priced contracts or natural gas swap contracts to fix the price of natural gas is limited. We spent $29.1 million and $29.5 million, respectively, on natural gas for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. We have no way of predicting to what extent natural gas prices will rise in the future. To the extent that we are not able to offset increases in natural gas prices, such as by passing along the cost to our customers, these increases could adversely impact our margins and operating performance.. The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility.. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include market conditions within the industries in which we operate, as well as general economic and market conditions, such as recessions; seasonality of our business operations; the general state of the securities markets and the market for stocks of companies in our industry; trading volumes; sales by holders of large amounts of our common stock; short selling; actual or anticipated variations in our operational results and cash flow; actual or anticipated variations in our earnings relative to our competition; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; governmental legislation or regulation; and currency and exchange rate fluctuations.. Operational Risks. If we are unable to renegotiate collective bargaining agreements successfully when they expire, organized strikes or work stoppages by unionized employees may have an adverse effect on our operating performance.. We are party to collective bargaining agreements that cover most of our manufacturing employees. The agreement with our unionized employees in the Netherlands is scheduled to expire on June 30, 2019; the agreements with our unionized employees in Toledo, Ohio, are scheduled to expire on September 30, 2019; and the agreement with our unionized employees in Shreveport, Louisiana, is scheduled to expire on December 15, 2020. Under our collective bargaining agreements covering our unionized employees in Mexico, we negotiate wages annually and negotiate benefits every other year. In Portugal and China we have no. 12. Table of Contents. written collective bargaining agreement with our unionized employees, but there are consultations with the unions on various matters, including annual negotiations regarding wages.. We may not be able to successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements without a labor disruption. If any of our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or work stoppage in connection with the negotiation of their existing collective bargaining agreements, or if we are unable in the future to negotiate acceptable agreements with our unionized employees in a timely manner, we could experience a significant disruption of operations. If we experience a work stoppage and we elect to engage replacement workers, we could experience increase costs. In addition, we could experience increased operating costs as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to union members upon the execution of new agreements with our labor unions. We also could experience operating inefficiencies as a result of preparations for disruptions in production, such as increasing production and inventories. Finally, companies upon which we are dependent for raw materials, transportation or other services could be affected by labor difficulties. These factors and any such disruptions or difficulties could have an adverse impact on our operating performance and financial condition.. In addition, we are dependent on the cooperation of our largely unionized workforce to implement and adopt our productivity initiatives that are critical to our ability to improve our production efficiency. The effect of strikes and other slowdowns may adversely affect the degree and speed with which we can adopt optimization objectives.. If we are unable to increase output or achieve operating efficiencies, the profitability of our business may be materially and adversely affected.. We may not be successful in increasing output at our lower-cost manufacturing facilities or gaining operating efficiencies that may be necessary in order to ensure that our products and their prices remain competitive.. Unexpected equipment failures may lead to production curtailments or shutdowns.. Our manufacturing processes are dependent upon critical glass-producing equipment, such as furnaces, forming machines and lehrs. This equipment may incur downtime as a result of unanticipated failures, accidents, natural disasters or other force majeure events. We may in the future experience facility shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of such failures or events. Unexpected interruptions in our production capabilities would adversely affect our productivity and results of operations for the affected period. We also may face shutdowns if we are unable to obtain enough energy in the peak demand periods.. A loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our continued success depends to a large degree upon our ability to attract and retain key management executives, as well as upon a number of members of technology, operations and sales and marketing staffs. The loss of some of our key executives or key members of our operating staff, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us.. We rely on increasingly complex information systems for management of our manufacturing, distribution, sales and other functions. If our information systems fail to perform these functions adequately, or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business and results of operations could suffer.. All of our major operations, including manufacturing, distribution, sales and accounting, are dependent upon our complex information systems. Our information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from:. • earthquake, fire, flood, hurricane and other natural disasters;. • power loss, computer systems failure, internet and telecommunications or data network failure; and. • hackers, computer viruses or software bugs.. Any damage or significant disruption in the operation of such systems or the failure of our information systems to perform as expected could disrupt our business; result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory and product shortages; and otherwise adversely affect our operations, financial performance and condition. We take significant steps to mitigate the potential impact of each of these risks, but there can be no assurance that these procedures would be completely successful.. In addition, although we take steps to secure our management information systems, including our computer systems, intranet and internet sites, email and other telecommunications and data networks, the security measures we have implemented may not be effective and our systems may be vulnerable to theft, loss, damage and interruption from a number of potential sources and events,. 13. Table of Contents. including unauthorized access or security breaches and cyber attacks. Our reputation, brand, and financial condition could be adversely affected if, as a result of a significant cyber event or otherwise, our operations are disrupted or shutdown; our confidential, proprietary information is stolen or disclosed; data is manipulated or destroyed; we incur costs or are required to pay fines in connection with stolen customer, employee, or other confidential information; we must dedicate significant resources to system repairs or increase cyber security protection; or we otherwise incur significant litigation or other costs.. A severe outbreak, epidemic or pandemic of a contagious disease in a location where we have a facility could adversely impact our operations and financial condition.. Our facilities may be impacted by the outbreak of certain public health issues, including epidemics, pandemics and other contagious diseases. If a severe outbreak were to occur where we have facilities, it could adversely impact our operations and financial condition.. We may not be able to effectively integrate future businesses we acquire or joint ventures into which we enter.. Any future acquisitions that we might make or joint ventures into which we might enter are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including:. • the inability to integrate effectively the operations, products, technologies and personnel of the acquired companies (some of which may be spread out in different geographic regions) and to achieve expected synergies;. • the potential disruption of existing business and diversion of management's attention from day-to-day operations;. • the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies or correct deficient standards, controls, procedures and policies, including internal controls and procedures sufficient to satisfy regulatory requirements of a public company in the U.S.;. • the incurrence of contingent obligations that were not anticipated at the time of the acquisitions;. • the failure to obtain necessary transition services such as management services, information technology services and others;. • the need or obligation to divest portions of the acquired companies; and. • the potential impairment of relationships with customers.. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that the integration and consolidation of newly acquired businesses or joint ventures will achieve any anticipated cost savings and operating synergies. The inability to integrate and consolidate operations and improve operating efficiencies at newly acquired businesses or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Financial risks. Our level of debt may limit our operating and financial flexibility.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $387.7 million aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding. Although our ABL Facility credit agreement and Term Loan B Senior Secured Credit Agreement generally do not contain financial covenants, the credit agreements contain other covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility, such as by:. • limiting the additional indebtedness that we may incur;. • limiting certain business activities, investments and payments, and. • limiting our ability to dispose of certain assets.. These covenants may limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests.. In addition, our levels of indebtedness could:. 14. Table of Contents. • limit our ability to withstand business and economic downturns and/or place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt, because of the high percentage of our operating cash flow that is dedicated to servicing our debt;. • limit our ability to make capital investments in order to expand our business;. • limit our ability to invest operating cash flow in our business and future business opportunities, because we use a substantial portion of these funds to service debt and because our covenants restrict the amount of our investments;. • limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions or other purposes;. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations;. • limit our ability to pay dividends; and. • limit our ability to attract and retain talent.. If cash generated from operations is insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, if we cannot service our debt, or if we fail to meet our covenants, we could have substantial liquidity problems. In those circumstances, we might have to discontinue payment of dividends and/or share repurchases, sell assets, delay planned investments, obtain additional equity capital or restructure our debt. Depending on the circumstances at the time, we may not be able to accomplish any of these actions on favorable terms or at all.. In addition, our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our loan agreements could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness.. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk that could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Borrowings under our Senior Secured Term Loan B are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. Although we have entered into a forward interest-rate swap to fix the interest rate on $220.0 million of our Senior Secured Term Loan B, if interest rates were to increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even if the amount borrowed were to remain the same. As a result, our net income and cash flows would decrease.. If we are unable to control or pass on to our customers increases in key input costs, including the cost of raw materials, sourced products, utilities, packaging and freight, the profitability of our business may be materially and adversely affected.. Sand, soda ash, lime and corrugated packaging materials are the principal materials we use to make our products. We also rely heavily on natural gas, electricity, water and other utilities. In addition, we obtain glass tableware, ceramic dinnerware, metal flatware and hollowware from third parties. Increases in the costs of these commodities or products may result from inflationary pressures as well as temporary shortages due to disruptions in supply caused by weather, transportation, production delays or other factors. If we experience shortages in commodities or sourced products, we may be forced to procure them from alternative suppliers, and we may not be able to do so on terms as favorable as our current terms or at all.. In addition, the cost of U.S. dollar-denominated purchases (including for raw materials) for our operations in the euro zone, Mexico and China may increase due to appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the euro, the Mexican peso or the RMB, respectively.. If we are unsuccessful in managing our costs or in passing cost increases through to our customers through increased prices, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. The profitability of our business may be materially and adversely impacted if we are unable to fully absorb the high levels of fixed costs associated with our business.. The high levels of fixed costs of operating glass production plants encourage high levels of output, even during periods of reduced demand, which can lead to excess inventory levels and exacerbate the pressure on profit margins. In addition, significant portions of our selling, administrative and general expenses are fixed costs that neither increase nor decrease proportionately with sales. Our profitability is dependent, in part, on our ability to spread fixed costs over an increasing number of products sold and shipped, and if we reduce our rate of production our costs per unit increase, negatively impacting our gross margins. Decreased demand. 15. Table of Contents. or the need to reduce inventories can lead to capacity adjustments that reduce our ability to absorb fixed costs and, as a result, may materially impact our profitability.. We face inventory risk.. We identify slow-moving and obsolete inventories and estimate appropriate loss provisions accordingly. In connection with our 2016 initiative to optimize our product portfolio, we recorded a charge of $5.7 million within cost of sales for the year ended December 31, 2016. No assurance can be given that we will not incur additional inventory charges. Such charges could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. Fluctuation of the currencies in which we conduct operations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. A significant portion of our net sales, costs, assets and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the euro, the Mexican peso, the RMB and the Canadian dollar. In our consolidated financial statements, we translate local currency financial results into U.S. dollars based on the exchange rates prevailing during the reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, the reported revenues and earnings of our international operations will be reduced because the local currencies will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.. In addition, changes in the value, relative to the U.S. dollar, of the various currencies in which we conduct operations, including the euro, the Mexican peso and the RMB, may result in significant changes in the indebtedness of our non-U.S. subsidiaries.. Downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely impact us.. Our credit ratings are important to our cost of capital. The major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate our debt based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and business risk as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. On November 6, 2017, Standard & Poor's downgraded our corporate credit rating from B+ to B and lowered the issue-level rating on our Term Loan B from BB- to B, with a revised recovery rating from 2 to 3, in each case with a stable outlook. On the same date, Moody's Investor Service lowered our corporate family rating and Term Loan B from B1 to B2. Further downgrades to our debt ratings could result in increased interest and other expenses on future borrowings. Downgrades in our debt rating could also restrict our access to capital markets.. If we have an asset impairment in a business segment, our net earnings and net worth could be materially and adversely affected by a write-down of goodwill, intangible assets or fixed assets.. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the business acquired; other identifiable intangible assets, including trademarks and trade names; and fixed assets. Impairment of goodwill, identifiable intangible assets or fixed assets may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products sold by our business, and a variety of other factors. Under U.S. GAAP, we are required to charge the amount of any impairment immediately to operating income.. We conduct an impairment analysis at least annually related to goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets. This analysis requires our management to make significant judgments and estimates, primarily regarding expected financial performance, expected growth rates, and discount rates, identifying similar companies with comparable business factors and assessing comparable multiples. We determine expected financial performance and growth rates based on internally developed forecasts considering our future financial plans. We estimate the discount rate used based on an analysis of comparable company weighted average costs of capital that considered market assumptions obtained from independent sources. We identified similar companies with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return on investment. We identified comparable multiples that we felt were most relevant to Libbey. The estimates that our management uses in this analysis could be materially impacted by factors such as specific industry conditions, changes in cash flow from operations and changes in growth trends. In addition, the assumptions our management uses are management's best estimates based on projected results and market conditions as of the date of testing. Significant changes in these key assumptions could result in indicators of impairment when completing the annual impairment analysis. We assess our fixed assets for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. We remain subject to future financial statement risk in the event that goodwill, other identifiable intangible assets or fixed assets become impaired. For further discussion of key assumptions in our critical accounting estimates, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Estimates.\". 16. Table of Contents. In the third quarter of 2017, we recorded a $79.7 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge in the Mexico reporting unit of our Latin America segment. As of December 31, 2017, we had goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets of $99.0 million and net fixed assets of $265.7 million. There can be no assurance that we will not record further impairment charges that may adversely impact our net earnings and net worth.. The changes in the fair value of derivatives used as hedges would be reflected in our earnings if we have not elected hedge accounting, if our hedges do not qualify as highly effective or if we do not believe that forecasted transactions would occur.. We have derivative financial instruments to hedge our interest rate risk. In addition, in order to mitigate the variation in our operating results due to commodity price fluctuations, we have derivative financial instruments that hedge certain commodity price risks associated with forecasted future natural gas requirements and foreign exchange rate risks associated with transactions denominated in some currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The results of our hedging practices could be positive, neutral or negative in any period, depending on price changes of the hedged exposures. We account for derivatives in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 815, \"Derivatives and Hedging.\" These derivatives qualify for hedge accounting if the hedges are highly effective and we have designated and documented contemporaneously the hedging relationships involving these derivative instruments. If we do not elect hedge accounting, if our hedges do not qualify as highly effective or if we do not believe that forecasted transactions would occur, the changes in the fair value of the derivatives used as hedges will impact our results of operations and could significantly impact our earnings.. If counterparties to our hedge and interest rate swap agreements fail to perform, the applicable agreements would not protect us from fluctuations in pricing of the applicable commodity or interest rates, as the case may be.. If the counterparties to our derivative financial instruments that hedge commodity price risks or interest rates were to fail to perform, we would no longer be protected from fluctuations in the pricing of the applicable commodities or in interest rates, and the impact of these fluctuations would impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business requires significant capital investment and maintenance expenditures that we may be unable to fulfill.. Our operations are capital intensive, requiring us to maintain a large fixed cost base. Our total capital expenditures were $47.6 million and $34.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.. Our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flow and external financing sources may not be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to make anticipated capital expenditures.. Charges related to our employee pension and post-retirement welfare plans may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. As part of our pension expense, we incurred pension settlement charges of $0.2 million in both 2017 and 2016. For further discussion of these charges, see note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. We may incur further expenses related to our employee pension and post-retirement welfare plans that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. If our investments in our e-commerce initiative, new technology and other capital expenditures do not yield expected returns, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. In 2017, we invested $12.1 million to launch our e-commerce initiative, which we expect will contribute to both our net sales and our profitability. We also continue to invest in our glass tableware production equipment and make other capital expenditures to further improve our production efficiency and reduce our cost profile. To the extent that these investments do not generate targeted levels of returns in terms of profitability, efficiency or improved cost profile, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Governmental conversion controls over the foreign currencies in which we operate could affect our ability to convert the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars.. While the Mexican government does not currently restrict, and for many years has not restricted, the right or ability of Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos into U.S. dollars or to transfer other currencies out of Mexico, in the future the Mexican government could institute restrictive exchange rate policies or governmental controls over the convertibility of pesos. 17. Table of Contents. into U.S. dollars. Restrictive exchange rate or conversion policies could limit our ability to transfer or convert the peso earnings of our Mexican subsidiary into U.S. dollars, upon which we rely in part to satisfy our debt obligations through intercompany loans.. In addition, the government of China imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of Libbey China to remit sufficient foreign currency to make payments to us. Under existing Chinese foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the Chinese State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB are to be converted into foreign currencies and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. In the future, the Chinese government could institute restrictive exchange rate policies for current account transactions. These policies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our ability to recognize the benefit of deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income and the timing of temporary difference reversals.. We recognize the expected future tax benefit from deferred tax assets when realization of the tax benefit is considered more likely than not. Otherwise, a valuation allowance is applied against deferred tax assets. Assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets requires management to make significant estimates related to expectations of future taxable income and the timing of reversals of temporary differences. To the extent that these factors differ significantly from estimates, our ability to realize the deferred tax assets could be impacted. Additionally, future changes in tax laws could impact our ability to obtain the future tax benefits represented by our deferred tax assets. See note 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the impact on deferred taxes of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act which was signed into law on December 22, 2017.. International risks. We are subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries.. We operate manufacturing and other facilities throughout the world. As a result of our international operations, we are subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including:. • difficulties in staffing and managing multinational operations;. • changes in government policies and regulations;. • limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies;. • political, social and economic instability and uncertainties arising from the global geopolitical environment, including the United Kingdom referendum in favor of exiting the European Union and the evolving U.S. political, regulatory and economic landscape following the 2016 elections;. • drug-related violence, particularly in Mexico;. • war, civil disturbance or acts of terrorism;. • taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation;. • imposition or changing of tariffs or other trade barriers;. • imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries;. • ineffective intellectual property protection;. • disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\");. • potentially adverse tax consequences;. • impositions or increase of investment and other restrictions or requirements by foreign governments; and. • limitations on our ability to achieve the international growth contemplated by our strategy.. 18. Table of Contents. High levels of inflation in countries in which we operate or sell our products could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows.. Increases in inflation caused by or associated with currency devaluations or other economic conditions may result in reduced discretionary spending by consumers and therefore reduced demand for our products, as well as higher input costs for our businesses, as a result of which our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted.. Legal and Regulatory Risks. Increasing legal and regulatory complexity will continue to affect our operations and results in potentially material ways.. Our legal and regulatory environment worldwide exposes us to complex compliance, litigation and similar risks that affect our operations and results in ways that potentially may be material. In many of our markets, including the U.S. and Europe, we are subject to increasing regulation, which has increased our cost of doing business. In developing markets, including in China, we face the risks associated with new and untested laws and judicial systems. Among the more important regulatory and litigation risks we face and must manage are the following:. • The cost, compliance and other risks associated with the often conflicting and highly prescriptive regulations we face, especially in the U.S., where inconsistent standards imposed by local, state and federal authorities can increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings;. • The impact of new, potential or changing regulation that can affect our business plans, such as those relating to the content and safety of our products, as well as the risks and costs of our labeling and other disclosure practices;. • The risks and costs to us and our supply chain of increased focus by U.S. and overseas governmental authorities and non-governmental organizations on environmental matters, such as climate change, the reduction of greenhouse gases and water consumption, including as a result of initiatives that effectively impose a tax on carbon emissions;. • The impact of litigation trends, particularly in our major markets; the relative level of our defense costs, which vary from period to period depending on the number, nature and procedural status of pending proceedings; and the cost and other effects of settlements or judgments, which may require us to make disclosures or take other actions that may affect perceptions of our brand and products;. • The increasing costs and other effects of compliance with U.S. and overseas regulations affecting our workforce and labor practices, including regulations relating to health and safety, wage and hour practices, immigration, healthcare, retirement and other employee benefits and unlawful workplace discrimination;. • The cost and disruption of responding to governmental audits, investigations or proceedings (including audits of abandoned and unclaimed property, tax audits and audits of pension plans and our compliance with wage and hour laws), whether or not they have merit, and the cost to resolve or contest the results of any such governmental audits, investigations or proceedings;. • The legal and compliance risks associated with information technology, such as the costs of compliance with privacy, consumer protection and other laws, the potential costs associated with alleged security breaches (including the loss of consumer confidence that may result and the risk of criminal penalties or civil liability to consumers or employees whose data is alleged to have been collected or used inappropriately) and potential challenges to the associated intellectual property rights or to our use of that intellectual property;. • The impact of changes in financial reporting requirements, accounting standards, pronouncements, principles or practices, including with respect to our critical accounting policies and estimates, changes in tax accounting or tax laws (or authoritative interpretations relating to any of these matters), and the impact of settlements of pending or any future adjustments proposed by any taxing authorities in connection with our tax audits, all of which will depend on their timing, nature and scope;. • The impact of changes in international trade agreements and tariffs; and. • The impact of new accounting standards or pronouncements, which could adversely affect our operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results in future periods. The accounting rules and regulations with which we must comply are complex and continually changing. In addition, many companies' accounting policies are being. 19. Table of Contents. subjected to heightened scrutiny by regulators and the public. While we believe that our financial statements have been prepared in accordance of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we cannot predict the impact of future changes to accounting principles or to our accounting policies on our financial statements going forward.. We are subject to various environmental legal requirements and may be subject to new legal requirements in the future; these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Our operations and properties, both in the U.S. and abroad, are subject to extensive laws, ordinances, regulations and other legal requirements relating to environmental protection, including legal requirements governing investigation and clean-up of contaminated properties as well as water discharges, air emissions, waste management and workplace health and safety. These legal requirements frequently change and vary among jurisdictions. For example, Chinese restrictions on air emissions have continued to evolve in the face of the extreme air pollution in China. Compliance with these requirements, or the failure to comply with these requirements, may have a material adverse effect on operations.. We have incurred, and expect to incur, costs to comply with environmental legal requirements, including requirements limiting greenhouse gas emissions, and these costs could increase in the future. Many environmental legal requirements provide for substantial fines, orders (including orders to cease operations) and criminal sanctions for violations. Also, certain environmental laws impose strict liability and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability on current and prior owners and operators of these sites, as well as persons who sent waste to them, for costs to investigate and remediate contaminated sites. These legal requirements may apply to conditions at properties that we presently or formerly owned or operated, as well as at other properties for which we may be responsible, including those at which wastes attributable to us were disposed. A significant order or judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license or the imposition of a significant fine may have a material adverse effect on operations.. Our products and operations are subject to various health and safety requirements and may be subject to new health and safety requirements in the future; these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Our products and operations are subject to certain legal requirements relating to health and safety, including occupational health and safety. These legal requirements frequently change and vary among jurisdictions. Compliance with these requirements, or the failure to comply with these requirements, may have a material adverse effect on our operations. If any of our products becomes subject to new regulations, or if any of our products becomes specifically regulated by additional governmental or other regulatory entities, the cost of compliance could be material. For example, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, or CPSC, regulates many consumer products, including glass tableware products that are externally decorated with certain ceramic enamels. New regulations or policies by the CPSC could require us to change our manufacturing processes, which could materially raise our manufacturing costs. In addition, such new regulations could reduce sales of our glass tableware products. Furthermore, a significant order or judgment against us by any governmental or regulatory entity relating to health or safety matters, or the imposition of a significant fine relating to such matters, may have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We are subject to complex corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting requirements to which most of our competitors are not subject.. We are subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state government, as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (\"PCAOB\"), the Securities and Exchange Commission (\"SEC\") and the NYSE American exchange, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by the U.S. Congress. For example, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the SEC and the PCAOB, imposed and may impose further compliance burdens and costs on us. Also, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\") was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act includes significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas. Our efforts to comply with new requirements of law and regulation are likely to result in an increase in expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities. Also, those laws, rules and regulations may make it more difficult and expensive for us to attract and retain key employees and directors and to maintain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to maintain coverage.. Our competitors generally are not subject to these rules and regulations, because they do not have securities that are publicly traded on a U.S. securities exchange. As a result, our competitors generally are not subject to the risks identified above. In addition, the public disclosures that we are required to provide pursuant to these rules and regulations may furnish our competitors with greater. 20. Table of Contents. competitive information regarding our operations and financial results than we are able to obtain regarding their operations and financial results, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage.. Estimates and assumptions that we make in accounting for our results from operations are dependent on future results, involve significant judgments, may be imprecise and may differ materially from actual results.. Several estimates and assumptions are made that affect the accounting for and recognition of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. These estimates and assumptions must be made due to certain information used in preparation of our financial statements which is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. We believe that accounting for long-lived assets, goodwill, pension benefit plans, contingencies and litigation, and income taxes involves significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our financial results and operations may be adversely affected by violations of anti-bribery laws.. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We cannot assure you that our internal controls and procedures always will protect us from the reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. If we were found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could be liable for criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our failure to protect our intellectual property or prevail in any intellectual property litigation could materially and adversely affect our competitive position, reduce net sales or otherwise harm our business.. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, licenses, confidentiality and other agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. However, this protection may not be fully adequate. Our intellectual property rights may be challenged or invalidated, an infringement suit by us against a third party may not be successful and/or third parties could adopt trademarks similar to our own. In particular, third parties could design around or copy our proprietary furnace, manufacturing and mold technologies, which are important contributors to our competitive position in the glass tableware industry. We may be particularly susceptible to these challenges in countries where protection of intellectual property is not strong. In addition, we may be accused of infringing or violating the intellectual property rights of third parties. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could result in costly litigation and divert the efforts of our personnel. Our failure to protect our intellectual property or prevail in any intellectual property litigation could materially and adversely affect our competitive position, reduce net sales or otherwise harm our business.. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by product liability claims, recalls or other litigation that is determined adversely to us.. We are involved in various routine legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business. We do not consider any pending legal proceeding as material. However, our financial results could be adversely affected by monetary judgments and the cost to defend legal proceedings in the future, including product liability claims related to the products we manufacture. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims are subject to a self-insured retention or could be excluded under the terms of the policy."
