[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Company's results of operations and the ability to make distributions to our shareholders and service our indebtedness may be affected by the risk factors set forth below. (The Company refers to itself as \"we,\" \"us\" or \"our\" in the following risk factors.) This section contains some forward looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.. Risks Related to Our Business. The Company's business is subject to the risks in this section.. Unfavorable events affecting our existing tenants and potential tenants, or negative market conditions that may affect our existing tenants and potential tenants, could have an adverse impact on our ability to attract new tenants, relet space, collect rent or renew leases, and thus could have a negative effect on our cash flow from operations.. Our cash flow from operations depends on our ability to lease space to tenants on economically favorable terms. Therefore, we could be adversely affected by various factors and events over which we have limited control, such as:. • lack of demand for space in the areas where our Properties are located. • inability to retain existing tenants and attract new tenants. • oversupply of or reduced demand for space and changes in market rental rates. 9. Table of Contents. • defaults by our tenants or their failure to pay rent on a timely basis. • the need to periodically renovate and repair our space. • physical damage to our Properties. • economic or physical decline of the areas where our Properties are located. • potential risk of functional obsolescence of our Properties over time. If a tenant is unable to pay rent due to us, we may be forced to evict the tenant, or engage in other remedies, which may be expensive and time consuming and may adversely affect our net income, shareholders' equity and cash distributions to shareholders.. If our tenants do not renew their leases as they expire, we may not be able to rent the space. Furthermore, leases that are renewed, and some new leases for space that is relet, may have terms that are less economically favorable to us than current lease terms, or may require us to incur significant costs, such as for renovations, tenant improvements or lease transaction costs.. Any of these events could adversely affect our cash flow from operations and our ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders and service our indebtedness.. A significant portion of our costs, such as real estate taxes, insurance costs, and debt service payments, generally are not reduced when circumstances cause a decrease in cash flow from our Properties.. We may face risks associated with our current business strategy.. As previously reported, and as further summarized below in Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" we undertook several significant transactions in recent years, consistent with our strategy to favor industrial properties and markets with strong demographic and economic fundamentals and, to a lesser extent, metro-office properties. We also believe that long-term trends indicate potential erosion in certain suburban office properties. Accordingly, we announced a strategic shift whereby we expect to substantially divest of our remaining suburban office properties, and reinvest those proceeds in acquisitions in targeted industrial markets and new development.. While management believes that this strategy will be in the best long-term interests of the Company and its shareholders,  in the near term, this strategy will be dilutive to operating cash flow and we cannot assure you that this strategy will produce the intended benefit, or when, if ever, those intended benefits will be achieved.   This strategy poses certain risks, including without limitation the following:. <U+25AA> for similar investment dollars, rental income from industrial properties is generally less in the short term than rental income generated from suburban office properties. <U+25AA> our expectation of increasing demand and increasing stability of value in the industrial sector and metro-office sector may not materialize. <U+25AA> the relative advantages in the ownership of industrial properties and metro-office properties as opposed to suburban office properties will be affected by variable and unpredictable macro-economic and global conditions that are outside of our control. <U+25AA> our identification of markets with strong demographic and economic fundamentals may prove erroneous, due to macro-economic and global conditions that are outside of our control. Failure of our strategy to achieve the intended benefits could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.. We may not be able to compete successfully with other entities that operate in our industry.. We experience a great deal of competition in attracting tenants for our Properties and in locating land to develop and properties to acquire.. In our effort to lease our Properties, we compete for tenants with a broad spectrum of other landlords in each of our markets. These competitors include, among others, publicly-held REITs, privately-held entities, individual property owners and tenants who wish to sublease their space. Some of these competitors may be able to offer prospective tenants more attractive financial or other terms than we are able to offer.. 10. Table of Contents. We may experience increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our operations.. Our Properties are subject to increases in operating expenses such as real estate taxes, insurance, cleaning, electricity, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, general and administrative costs and other costs associated with security, landscaping, repairs and maintenance. While our current tenants generally are obligated to pay a significant portion of these costs, there is no assurance that these tenants will make such payments or agree to pay these costs upon renewal or that new tenants will agree to pay these costs. If operating expenses increase in our markets, we may not be able to increase rents or reimbursements in all of these markets so as to meet increased expenses without simultaneously decreasing occupancy rates. If this occurs, our ability to make distributions to shareholders and service our indebtedness could be adversely affected.. Our ability to achieve growth in operating income depends in part on our ability to develop properties, which may suffer under certain circumstances.. We intend to continue to develop properties when warranted by market conditions. Our general construction and development activities include the risks that:. <U+25AA> construction and leasing of a property may not be completed on schedule, which could result in increased expenses and construction costs, and would result in reduced profitability. <U+25AA> construction costs may exceed our original estimates due to increases in interest rates and increased materials, labor or other costs, possibly making the property unprofitable or less profitable than projected because we may not be able to increase rents to compensate for the increase in construction costs. <U+25AA> we may be unable to obtain, or may face delays in obtaining, required zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs and could require us to abandon our activities entirely with respect to a project. <U+25AA> we may abandon development opportunities after we begin to explore them and as a result, we may fail to recover costs already incurred. If we alter or discontinue our development efforts, costs of the investment may need to be expensed rather than capitalized and we may determine the investment is impaired, resulting in a loss. <U+25AA> we may expend funds on and devote management's time to projects that we do not complete. <U+25AA> occupancy rates and rents at newly completed properties may not meet our expectations. This may result in lower than projected occupancy and rental rates with the result that our investment is not profitable or less profitable than projected. <U+25AA> we may incur losses under construction warranties, guaranties and delay damages under our contracts with tenants and other customers.. We face risks when we develop properties on a fee basis for joint ventures in which we hold an interest or for unrelated third parties.. We develop properties, from time to time, on a fee basis for joint ventures in which we hold an interest or for unrelated third parties, in addition to developing properties to be wholly owned in our own portfolio.  In these cases we typically agree to be responsible for all aspects of the development of the project and to guarantee the timely lien-free completion of construction of the project and the payment, subject to certain exceptions, of cost overruns incurred in the development of the project.  For example, in addition to the Comcast Technology Center project discussed below, in 2016 we entered into an agreement to develop a corporate headquarters office building for American Water Works, Inc. in Camden, New Jersey for an estimated total building cost of $145.1 million, plus overall project infrastructure in the amount of $28.0 million. If we encounter construction delays or unexpected costs in the development of these projects or other similar projects, the resulting additional costs incurred and potential payments to the customer would adversely affect our cash flow and net income.. Our development of Comcast Technology Center exposes us to certain risks.. In 2014, the Company entered into two joint ventures with Comcast Corporation for the purpose of developing and owning the Comcast Technology Center located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania as part of a mixed-use development. The 60-story building will include 1.3 million square feet of leasable office space and a 217-room Four Seasons Hotel.   Projected costs for this development, exclusive of tenant-funded interior improvements, are anticipated to be approximately $953.7 million. The Company's investment in the project is expected to be approximately $190.7 million with 20% ownership interests in both joint ventures. The two joint ventures have engaged the Company as the developer of the project pursuant to a Development Agreement by which the Company agrees, in consideration for a development fee, to be responsible for all aspects of the development of the project and to guarantee the timely lien-free completion of construction of the project and the payment, subject to certain exceptions, of any cost overruns incurred in the development of the project. To mitigate this risk, the Company entered into guaranteed maximum price contracts with a third party contractor to construct the project. Comcast Corporation has entered into a lease for 100% of the office space in the building.. 11. Table of Contents. Development of a project such as the Comcast Technology Center is subject to the general development and construction risks noted above.  Those risks are magnified by the size of the project, and include construction risks and cost overrun risks associated with a construction project with the engineering and design complexities of a high rise mixed-use building.  If we fail to complete the development of the project in compliance with the deadlines set forth in the lease with Comcast Corporation, or if the costs of development exceed the budgets agreed upon by the joint ventures, the Company could be liable for substantial damages and costs. We have recently been notified that there are additional construction costs in connection with the project. Until such time as we receive appropriate information concerning the amount and nature of these additional costs and we have an opportunity to investigate them, it is not possible to estimate the amount of possible additional costs, if any, that the Company may incur in connection with its guarantee beyond the obligations of the contractor under its guaranteed maximum price contracts. There is also additional risk associated with ownership of a hotel, with which our employees have limited experience.. We face risks associated with property acquisitions.. We acquire individual properties and portfolios of properties, in some cases through the acquisition of operating entities, and intend to continue to do so when circumstances warrant.. Our acquisition activities and their success are generally subject to the following risks:. <U+25AA> when we are able to locate a desirable property, competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the purchase price. <U+25AA> acquired properties may fail to perform as expected. <U+25AA> the actual costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be higher than our estimates. <U+25AA> acquired properties may be located in new markets where we face risks associated with an incomplete knowledge or understanding of the local market, a limited number of established business relationships in the area and a relative unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. <U+25AA> we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties and operating entities, into our existing operations, and as a result, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow.. Many of our Properties are concentrated in our primary markets, and we therefore may suffer economic harm as a result of adverse conditions in those markets.. Our Properties are located principally in specific geographic areas. Due to the concentration of our Properties in these areas, performance is dependent on economic conditions in these areas.. The value and the marketability of some of our Properties may be reduced as the result of the expiration or loss of local tax abatements, tax credit programs, or other governmental incentives.. Certain of our Properties have the benefit of governmental tax incentives aimed at inducing office or industrial users to relocate to incentivize development in areas and neighborhoods which have not historically seen robust commercial development. These incentives typically have specific sunset provisions and may be subject to governmental discretion in the eligibility or award of the applicable incentives.  For example, the Pennsylvania Keystone Opportunity Zones applicable to our Properties in the Philadelphia Navy Yard Corporate Center expire on December 31, 2018 or December 31, 2025 (as applicable) and the Grow NJ tax credit program applicable to our properties in the Camden Waterfront project expires on July 31, 2019 and is subject to the approval of each project by certain agencies and officers of the State of New Jersey.  The expiration of these incentive programs or the inability of potential tenants or users to be eligible for or to obtain governmental approval of the incentives may have an adverse effect on the value of our Properties and on our cash flow and net income, and may result in impairment charges.. 12. Table of Contents. Our Properties may be subject to impairment charges.. We continually evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of our Properties, whether Development Properties (including land held for development), Properties Held for Redevelopment or Properties in Operation, as well as land and infrastructure being developed on a fee basis (including our Camden, NJ waterfront project), under generally accepted accounting principles.  Factors considered in evaluating impairment of our Properties include significant declines in operating revenues, recurring operating losses and other significant adverse changes in general market conditions, and, in the case of Development Properties (including land held for development as well as land and infrastructure being developed on a fee basis), the abandonment of a project or the determination by management that future development is unlikely to occur or is unlikely to produce adequate cash flows to recover the carrying value of the Property. Generally, a Property held for investment is not considered impaired if the undiscounted estimated future cash flows of the Property over its estimated holding period are in excess of the Property's net book value at the balance sheet date.  If held for sale, a Property is not considered impaired unless its estimated fair value (less costs to sell) is less than the Property's book value at the balance sheet date. Assumptions used to estimate market values, annual and residual cash flows and estimated holding period of such assets require the judgment of management.. There can be no assurance that we will not take additional charges in the future related to the impairment of our Properties.  We believe we have applied reasonable estimates and judgments in determining the proper classification of our Properties. However, these estimates require the use of estimated market values, which are difficult to assess.  Should external or internal circumstances change, requiring the need to shorten holding periods or adjust the estimated future cash flows of certain Properties, we could be required to record additional impairment charges.  Any future impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and funds from operations.. We may not be able to access financial markets to obtain capital on a timely basis, or on acceptable terms.. Our ability to access the public debt and equity markets depends on a variety of factors, including:. <U+25AA> general economic conditions affecting these markets. <U+25AA> our own financial structure and performance. <U+25AA> the market's opinion of REITs in general. <U+25AA> the market's opinion of REITs that own properties similar to ours. We may suffer adverse effects as a result of the terms of and covenants relating to our indebtedness.. Required payments on our indebtedness generally are not reduced if the economic performance of our portfolio of Properties declines. If the economic performance of our Properties declines, net income, cash flow from operations and cash available for distribution to shareholders will be reduced. If payments on debt cannot be made, we could sustain a loss, or in the case of mortgages, suffer foreclosures by mortgagees or suffer judgments. Further, some obligations, including our $930 million of aggregate credit facilities and $2.3 billion in unsecured notes issued in past public offerings, contain cross-default and/or cross-acceleration provisions, which means that a default on one obligation may constitute a default on other obligations.. Our credit facilities and unsecured debt securities contain customary restrictions, requirements and limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including total debt to total asset ratios, secured debt to total asset ratios, debt service coverage ratios and minimum ratios of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt which we must maintain. Our continued ability to borrow under our $930 million of aggregate credit facilities is subject to compliance with our financial and other covenants. In addition, our failure to comply with such covenants could cause a default under these credit facilities, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources. Under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or be available only on unattractive terms.. Our degree of leverage could limit our ability to obtain additional financing.. Our degree of leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes. Our senior unsecured debt is currently rated investment grade by the three major rating agencies. However, there can be no assurance we will be able to maintain this rating, and in the event our senior debt is downgraded from its current rating, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs. Our degree of leverage could also make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally.. Further issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to our existing shareholders.. The interests of our existing shareholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities to finance future developments, acquisitions, or repay indebtedness. Our Board of Trustees can authorize the issuance of additional securities without shareholder. 13. Table of Contents. approval. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt financing, including unsecured lines of credit and other forms of secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, including issuances of common and preferred equity.. An increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on variable rate debt and could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt or dispose of properties in accordance with our strategy.. We currently have, and may incur more, indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. Accordingly, if interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which would adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures.. From time to time, we enter into interest rate swap agreements and other interest rate hedging contracts, including swaps, caps and floors. While these agreements are intended to lessen the impact of rising interest rates on us, they also expose us to the risks that the other parties to the agreements might not perform, or that we could incur significant costs associated with the settlement of the agreements, or that the agreements might be unenforceable and the underlying transactions would fail to qualify as highly-effective cash flow hedges under guidance included in ASC 815 \"Derivatives and Hedging.\". In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amounts third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to change our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.. Property ownership through joint ventures will limit our ability to act exclusively in our interests and may require us to depend on the financial performance of our co-venturers.. From time to time we invest in joint ventures in which we do not hold a controlling interest. These investments involve risks that do not exist with properties in which we own a controlling interest, including the possibility that our partners may, at any time, have business, economic or other objectives that are inconsistent with our objectives. In instances where we lack a controlling interest, our partners may be in a position to require action that is contrary to our objectives. While we seek to negotiate the terms of these joint ventures in a way that secures our ability to act in our best interests, there can be no assurance that those terms will be sufficient to fully protect us against actions contrary to our interests. If the objectives of our partners are inconsistent with ours, we may not in every case be able to act exclusively in our interests.. Additionally, our joint venture partners may experience financial difficulties or change their investment philosophies. This may impair their ability to meet their obligations to the joint venture, such as with respect to providing additional capital, if required. If such a circumstance presented itself we may be required to perform on their behalf, if possible, or suffer a loss of all or a portion of our investment in the joint venture.. We could suffer adverse effects if were to experience security breaches through cyber attacks.. We are subject to risks from security breaches and other significant disruptions of our information technology networks and related systems, which are essential to our business operations.   Such breaches and disruptions may occur through cyber attacks or cyber intrusions over the Internet, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems inside our organization.  Certain of our tenants are in the financial and retail industries, which have been particular targets of cyber attacks, and as a result, we may be especially likely to be targeted by cyber attacks.  We cannot provide assurance that our activities to maintain the security and integrity of our networks and related systems will be effective.  A security breach involving our networks and related systems could disrupt our operations in numerous ways, including by creating difficulties for our tenants that may reflect poorly on us.. We may be adversely affected by trends in the office real estate industry. Telecommuting, flexible work schedules, open workspaces and teleconferencing are becoming more common.  These practice enable businesses to reduce their space requirements.  There is also an increasing trend among some businesses to utilize shared office space and co-working spaces.  A continuation of the movement towards these practices could over time erode the overall demand for office space and, in turn, place downward pressure on occupancy, rental rates and property valuations.. Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry. Real estate investments are illiquid, and we may not be able to sell our Properties if and when we determine it is appropriate to do so.. Real estate generally cannot be sold quickly. We may not be able to dispose of our Properties promptly in response to economic or other conditions. In addition, provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"), limit a REIT's ability. 14. Table of Contents. to sell properties in some situations when it may be economically advantageous to do so, thereby adversely affecting returns to shareholders and adversely impacting our ability to meet our obligations to the holders of other securities.. We may experience economic harm if any damage to our Properties is not covered by insurance.. We believe all of our Properties are adequately insured with carriers that are adequately capitalized. However, we cannot guarantee that the limits of our current policies will be sufficient in the event of a catastrophe to our Properties or that carriers will be able to honor their obligations. Our existing property and liability policies expire during 2018. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to renew or duplicate our current coverages in adequate amounts or at reasonable prices.. We may suffer losses that are not covered under our comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss insurance policies. For example, we may not be insured for losses resulting from acts of war, certain acts of terrorism, or from certain  liabilities. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits should occur, we would nevertheless remain liable for the loss, which could adversely affect cash flow from operations.. Potential liability for environmental contamination could result in substantial costs.. Under federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be required to investigate and clean up the effects of releases of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at our Properties simply because of our current or past ownership or operation of the real estate. If unidentified environmental problems arise, we may have to make substantial payments which could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders because:. <U+25AA> as owner or operator, we may have to pay for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred in connection with the contamination. <U+25AA> the law typically imposes clean-up responsibility and liability regardless of whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the contamination. <U+25AA> even if more than one person may be responsible for the contamination, each person who shares legal liability under the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs. <U+25AA> governmental entities and third parties may sue the owner or operator of a contaminated site for damages and costs. These costs could be substantial. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products or the failure to properly remediate contamination may materially and adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or rent an affected property. In addition, applicable environmental laws create liens on contaminated sites in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with a contamination. Changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing at our Properties may result in significant unanticipated expenditures.. Substantially all of the Company's properties and land were subject to environmental assessments obtained in contemplation of their acquisition by the Company or obtained by predecessor owners prior to the sale of the property or land to the Company. These assessments generally include a visual inspection of the properties and the surrounding areas, an examination of current and historical uses of the properties and the surrounding areas and a review of relevant state, federal and historical documents, but do not involve invasive techniques such as soil and ground water sampling. Where appropriate, on a property-by-property basis, our practice is to have these consultants conduct additional testing, including sampling for asbestos, for lead in drinking water, for soil contamination where underground storage tanks are or were located or where other past site usages create a potential environmental problem, and for contamination in groundwater. Even though these environmental assessments are conducted, there is still the risk that:. <U+25AA> the environmental assessments and updates will not identify all potential environmental liabilities. <U+25AA> a prior owner created a material environmental condition that is not known to us or the independent consultants preparing the assessments. <U+25AA> new environmental liabilities have developed since the environmental assessments were conducted. <U+25AA> future uses or conditions such as changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations could result in environmental liability for us. While we test indoor air quality on a regular basis and have an ongoing maintenance program in place to address this aspect of property operations, inquiries about indoor air quality may necessitate special investigation and, depending on the results, remediation. Indoor air quality issues can stem from inadequate ventilation, chemical contaminants from indoor or outdoor sources, pollen, viruses and bacteria. Indoor exposure to chemical or biological contaminants above certain levels can be alleged to be connected to allergic reactions or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. If these conditions were to occur at one of our Properties, we may need to undertake a targeted remediation program, including without limitation, steps to increase. 15. Table of Contents. indoor ventilation rates and eliminate sources of contaminants. Such remediation programs could be costly, necessitate the temporary relocation of some or all of the Property's tenants or require rehabilitation of the affected Property.. Our Properties may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem.. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our Properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected Property. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants and others if property damage or health concerns arise.. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make expenditures that adversely impact our operating results.. All of our Properties are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act (\"ADA\"). The ADA generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers, and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the United States government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. Expenditures related to complying with the provisions of the ADA could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to shareholders. In addition, we are required to operate our Properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our Properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to shareholders.. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may adversely impact our operating results and may affect markets on which our securities are traded.. Terrorist attacks against our Properties, or against the United States or United Kingdom or the interests of the United States or United Kingdom generally, may negatively affect our operations and investments in our securities. Attacks or armed conflicts could have a direct adverse impact on our Properties or operations through damage, destruction, loss or increased security costs. Any terrorism insurance that we obtain may be insufficient to cover the loss for damages to our Properties as a result of terrorist attacks.. Furthermore, any terrorist attacks or armed conflicts could result in increased volatility in or damage to financial markets in the United States or the United Kingdom or the worldwide economy. Adverse economic conditions could affect the ability of our tenants to pay rent, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results.. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure. We have elected REIT status under the federal tax laws and could suffer adverse consequences if we fail to qualify as a REIT.. We have elected REIT status under federal tax laws and have taken the steps known to us to perfect that status, but we cannot be certain that we qualify or that we will remain qualified. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code, as to which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the related regulations is greater in the case of a REIT that holds its assets in partnership form, as we do. Moreover, no assurance can be given that new tax laws will not significantly affect our qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. New laws could be applied retroactively, which means that past operations could be found to be in violation, which would have a negative effect on the business.. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, the distributions to shareholders would not be deductible when computing taxable income. If this happened, we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Also, we could be prevented from qualifying as a REIT for the four years following the year in which we were disqualified. Further, if we requalified as a REIT after failing to qualify, we might have to pay the full corporate-level tax on any unrealized gain in our assets during the period we were not qualified as a REIT. We would then have to distribute to our shareholders the earnings we accumulated while we were not qualified as a REIT. These additional taxes would reduce our funds available for distribution to our shareholders. In addition, while we were disqualified as a REIT, we would not be required by the Code to make distributions to our shareholders. A failure by the Company to qualify as a REIT and the resulting requirement to pay taxes and interest (and. 16. Table of Contents. perhaps penalties) would cause us to default under various agreements to which we are a party, including under our credit facility, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, earnings, financial condition and our ability to make distributions to shareholders.. Future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may lead our Board of Trustees to authorize the revocation of our election to qualify as a REIT. A revocation of our REIT status would require the consent of the holders of a majority of the voting interests of all of our outstanding Common Shares.. Certain trustees and officers of the Trust may not have the same interests as shareholders as to certain tax laws.. Certain trustees and officers of the Trust own Common Units. These units may be exchanged for our Common Shares. The trustees and officers who own those units and have not yet exchanged them for our Common Shares may suffer different and more adverse tax consequences than holders of our Common Shares suffer in certain situations:. <U+25AA> when certain of our Properties are sold. <U+25AA> when debt on those Properties is refinanced. <U+25AA> if we are involved in a tender offer or merger. Because these officers own units and face different consequences than shareholders do, the Trust and those trustees and officers may have different objectives as to these transactions than shareholders do.. Certain aspects of our organization could have the effect of restricting or preventing a change of control of our Company, which could have an adverse effect on the price of our shares.. Our charter contains an ownership limit on shares. To qualify as a REIT, five or fewer individuals cannot own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest. To this end, our Declaration of Trust, among other things, generally prohibits any holder of the Trust's shares from owning more than 5% of the Trust's outstanding shares of beneficial interest, unless that holder gets the consent from our Board of Trustees. This limitation could prevent the acquisition of control of the Company by a third party without the consent from our Board of Trustees.. We can issue preferred shares. Our Declaration of Trust authorizes our Board of Trustees to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. The issuance of preferred shares could have the effect of delaying, making more difficult or preventing a change of control of the Company, even if a change in control were in the shareholder's interest.. There are limitations on acquisition of and changes in control pursuant to, and fiduciary protections of the Board under Maryland law. The Maryland General Corporation Law (\"MGCL\") contains provisions which are applicable to the Trust as if the Trust were a corporation. Among these provisions is a section, referred to as the \"control share acquisition statute,\" which eliminates the voting rights of shares acquired in quantities so as to constitute \"control shares,\" as defined under the MGCL. The MGCL also contains provisions applicable to us that are referred to as the \"business combination statute,\" which would generally limit business combinations between the Company and any 10% owners of the Trust's shares or any affiliate thereof. Further, Maryland law provides broad discretion to the Board with respect to its fiduciary duties in considering a change in control of our Company, including that the Board is subject to no greater level of scrutiny in considering a change in control transaction than with respect to any other act by the Board. Finally, the \"unsolicited takeovers\" provisions of the MGCL permit the Board, without shareholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our Declaration of Trust or By-Laws, to implement takeover defenses that our Company does not yet have, including permitting only the Board to fix the size of the Board and permitting only the Board to fill a vacancy on the Board. All of these provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for our Company or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of Common Shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price.. Various factors out of our control could hurt the market value of our publicly traded securities.. The value of our publicly traded securities depends on various market conditions, which may change from time to time. In addition to general economic and market conditions and our particular financial condition and performance, the value of our publicly traded securities could be affected by, among other things, the extent of institutional investor interest in us and the market's opinion of REITs in general and, in particular, REITs that own and operate properties similar to ours.. The market value of the equity securities of a REIT may be based primarily upon the market's perception of the REIT's growth potential and its current and future cash distributions, and may be secondarily based upon factors such as the real estate market value of the underlying assets. The failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions likely would adversely affect the market price of publicly traded securities. Our payment of future dividends will be at the discretion. 17. Table of Contents. of our Board of Trustees and will depend on numerous factors including our cash flow, financial condition and capital requirements, annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code, the general economic environment and such other factors as our Board of Trustees deems relevant.. Rising market interest rates could make an investment in publicly traded securities less attractive. If market interest rates increase, purchasers of publicly traded securities may demand a higher annual yield on the price they pay for their securities. This could adversely affect the market price of publicly traded securities.. On December 22, 2017, H.R. 1, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\"), was signed into law by President Donald J. Trump, making significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\").. Relevant changes include, but are not limited to, the following:. • Reduces the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% (including with respect to our taxable REIT subsidiaries (\"TRSs\")) for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017;. • Restricts the deductibility of interest expense by businesses (generally, to 30% of the business' adjusted taxable income) except, among others, \"real property businesses\" electing out of such restriction; and while generally, we expect our business to qualify as a \"real property business\", we have not yet determined whether the Company and/or our TRSs can and/or will make such an election going forward;. • Reduces the rate of U.S. federal withholding tax on distributions made to non-U.S. shareholders by a REIT that are attributable to gains from the sale or exchange of U.S. real property interests from 35% to 21%;. • Generally, reduces the highest marginal income tax rate for individuals to 37% from 39.6%;. • Generally, allows a deduction for individuals equal to 20% of ordinary dividends distributed by a REIT (excluding capital gain dividends and qualified dividend income), generally resulting in a maximum effective federal income tax rate applicable to such dividends of 29.6% as compared to 37% prior to the enactment of this provision of the Act; and. • Limits certain deductions for individuals, including deductions for state and local income taxes, and eliminates deductions for miscellaneous itemized deductions (including certain investment expenses).. Under the Act, many of the provisions, in particular those affecting individual taxpayers, expire at the end of 2025.  While many of the provisions contained in the Act generally appear to be favorable with respect to REITs, the extensive changes to non-REIT provisions in the Code may have unanticipated effects on the Company and/or our shareholders.  Moreover, Congressional leaders have recognized that the process of adopting extensive tax legislation in a short amount of time may have led to a need to amend or supplement the legislation which can only be accomplished through additional tax legislation.  At this point, it is unclear whether Congress will address these issues or when the Treasury Department (\"Treasury\") and/or the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") will issue administrative guidance.. As a result, the Company's taxable income and/or the amount of distributions to our shareholders required in order to maintain our REIT status, and our relative tax advantage as a REIT, may significantly change and/or be adversely impacted over time.  Further, the Act is a complex set of revisions to the current U.S. federal income tax laws which have the potential to impact certain classes of taxpayers and/or industries differently, and will require subsequent and substantial rulemaking, guidance and interpretation in a number of areas by both the Treasury and the IRS.  The long-term impact of the Act on the overall economy, government revenues, our tenants, the Company and the overall real estate industry cannot be reasonably predicted at this early stage of the new law's implementation.  As a result, we cannot reasonably provide any assurance at this time that the Act will not adversely impact the Company, our shareholders and/or the price of our securities moving forward.. We do not have a shareholder rights plan but are not precluded from adopting one.. Although we do not have a shareholder rights plan, we are not prohibited from adopting, without shareholder approval, a shareholder rights plan that may discourage any potential acquirer from acquiring more than a specific percentage of our outstanding Common Shares since, upon this type of acquisition without approval of our Board of Trustees, all other common shareholders would have the right to purchase a specified amount of Common Shares at a substantial discount from market price.. Transactions by the Trust or the Operating Partnership could adversely affect debt holders.. Except with respect to several covenants limiting the incurrence of indebtedness and a covenant requiring the Operating Partnership to maintain a certain unencumbered total asset value, our indentures do not contain any additional provisions that would protect holders of the Operating Partnership's debt securities in the event of (i) a highly leveraged transaction involving the Operating Partnership, (ii) a change of control or (iii) certain reorganizations, restructurings, mergers or similar transactions involving the Operating Partnership or the Trust.. 18. Table of Contents"
