[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks described below and elsewhere in this annual report are not the only ones that relate to our businesses or our capitalization.  The risks described below are considered to be the most material.  However, there may be other unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that also could have material adverse effects on our businesses.  Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.  If any of the events described below were to occur, our businesses, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected.. Factors Relating to Our Corporate History and Structure. We are a holding company, and we could be unable to obtain cash in amounts sufficient to service our financial obligations or meet our other commitments.. Our ability to meet our current and future financial obligations, including to make debt service obligations under the 2017 Margin Loan Agreement (defined below), and other contractual commitments depends upon our ability to access cash. We are a holding company, and our sources of cash include our available cash balances, net cash from the operating activities of our wholly-owned subsidiary Skyhook, any dividends and interest we may receive from our investments, available funds under the 2017 Margin Loan Agreement (defined below) (which was $500 million as of December 31, 2017) and proceeds from any asset sales we may undertake in the future. In addition, the ability of our only operating subsidiary to pay dividends or to make other payments or advances to us depends on its operating results and any statutory, regulatory or contractual restrictions to which it may be or may become subject.. We do not have access to the cash that Charter generates from its operating activities.. Charter generated approximately $11,954 million,  $8,041 million and $2,359 million of cash from its operations during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Charter uses the cash it generates from its operations primarily to fund its business operations and to service its debt and other financial obligations. We do not have access to the cash that Charter generates unless Charter declares a dividend on its capital stock payable in cash, repurchases any or all of its outstanding shares of capital stock for cash (subject to any contractual restrictions on our ability to participate in any such repurchase) or otherwise distributes or makes payments to its stockholders, including us. Historically, Charter has not paid any dividends on its capital stock or, with limited exceptions, otherwise distributed cash to its stockholders and instead has used all of its available cash in the expansion of its business and to service its debt obligations. Covenants in Charter's existing debt instruments also restrict the payment of dividends and cash distributions to stockholders. We expect that Charter will continue to apply its available cash to the expansion of its business.. Our company may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms.. We had outstanding borrowings of $500 million at December 31, 2017 under a credit agreement (the \"2017 Margin Loan Agreement\") governing a multi-draw margin loan agreement credit facility entered into in 2017 by a bankruptcy remote wholly owned subsidiary (\"SPV\") of Liberty Broadband. The obligations under the 2017 Margin Loan Agreement are secured by a portion of our ownership interest in Charter. Such equity interests are held through SPV. The terms of the 2017 Margin Loan Agreement limit our company's ability to secure additional financing on favorable terms, and our cash flow from operations may be insufficient to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time. Our ability to secure additional financing and satisfy our financial obligations will depend upon the operating performance of our subsidiary, Skyhook, the value of our investment in Charter, prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including interest rate levels and the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that sufficient financing will be available on desirable terms or at all. If financing is not available when needed or is not available on favorable terms, we may be unable to take advantage of business or market opportunities as they arise, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. I-25. Table of Contents. We have significant indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. As discussed above, SPV entered into the 2017 Margin Loan Agreement pursuant to which SPV had outstanding borrowings of $500 million at December 31, 2017.  As a result of this significant indebtedness, our company may:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tExperience increased vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tBe required to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to principal and interest payments on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tBe handicapped in its ability to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for its businesses; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tBe exposed to the risk of increased interest rates with respect to any variable rate portion of its indebtedness.. In addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future. If new debt is added to the current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. For additional limitations on our company's ability to potentially service our direct debt obligations, see \"We are a holding company, and we could be unable to obtain cash in amounts sufficient to service our financial obligations or meet our other commitments\" and \"We do not have access to the cash that Charter generates from its operating activities\" above.. The agreements that govern our current and future indebtedness may contain various affirmative and restrictive covenants that will limit our discretion in the operation of our business.. As discussed above, SPV entered into the 2017 Margin Loan Agreement pursuant to which SPV had outstanding borrowings of $500 million, with $500 million remaining available to be drawn until August 31, 2018, at December 31, 2017. The 2017 Margin Loan Agreement contains various covenants, including those that limit our ability to, among other things, incur indebtedness by having SPV enter into financing arrangements with respect to the portion of stock of Charter pledged to secure the loans under the 2017 Margin Loan Agreement, and cause SPV to enter into unrelated businesses or otherwise conduct business other than owning common stock of Charter and other assets as permitted under the 2017 Margin Loan Agreement documents. We may also enter into certain other indebtedness arrangements in the future. The instruments governing such indebtedness, often contain covenants that, among other things, place certain limitations on our ability to incur more debt, exceed specified leverage ratios, pay dividends, make distributions, make investments, repurchase stock, create liens, enter into transactions with affiliates, merge or consolidate, and transfer or sell assets. Any failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. We rely on Charter to provide us with the financial information that we use in accounting for our ownership interest in Charter as well as information regarding Charter that we include in our public filings.. We account for our approximately 22.7%  economic ownership interest in Charter using the equity method of accounting and, accordingly, in our financial statements we record our share of Charter's net income or loss. Within the meaning of U.S. accounting rules, we rely on Charter to provide us with financial information prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, which we use in the application of the equity method. We also rely on Charter to provide us with the information regarding their company that we include in our public filings. In addition, we cannot change the way in which Charter reports its financial results or require Charter to change its internal controls over financial reporting. No assurance can be given that Charter will provide us with the information necessary to enable us to complete our public filings on a timely basis or at all. Furthermore, any material misstatements or omissions in the information Charter provides to us or publicly files could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements and filing status under federal securities laws.. We may become subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940.. We do not believe we are currently subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, because our investment in Charter enables us to exercise significant influence over Charter. We have substantial involvement in the management and affairs of Charter, including through our board nominees. We nominated three of Charter's thirteen current directors. In connection with the Bright House Transaction, on May 23, 2015, we entered into the Stockholders Agreement, which continues to provide us with board nomination rights. If, however, our investment in Charter were deemed to become passive. I-26. Table of Contents. (such as in the event that our equity interest were significantly diluted and our nominees ceased to serve as directors of Charter), we could become subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. In such event, we would be required to register as an investment company, which could result in significant registration and compliance costs, could require changes to our corporate governance structure and financial reporting and could restrict our activities going forward. Our restated certificate of incorporation includes a provision that would enable us, at the option of our board of directors, to automatically convert each outstanding share of our Series B common stock into one share of our Series A common stock at such time as we have outstanding less than 20% of the total number of shares of our Series B common stock issued in the Broadband Spin-Off. In addition, if we were to become inadvertently subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940, any violation of this act could subject us to material adverse consequences, including potentially significant regulatory penalties and the possibility that our contracts would be deemed unenforceable.. Our company has overlapping directors and officers with Liberty, Liberty Interactive, Liberty TripAdvisor Holdings, Inc. and Liberty Expedia Holdings, Inc. and is expected to have overlapping directors and officers with GCI Liberty, Inc., which may lead to conflicting interests.. As a result of the Broadband Spin-Off, other transactions between 2011 and 2016 that resulted in the separate corporate existence of Liberty, Liberty Interactive, Liberty TripAdvisor Holdings, Inc. (\"TripCo\") and Liberty Expedia Holdings, Inc. (\"ExpediaCo\"), as well as the completion of the proposed transactions (the \"GCI Transactions\") involving Liberty Interactive and General Communication, Inc. (to be renamed GCI Liberty), most of the executive officers of Broadband also serve or will serve as executive officers of Liberty, Liberty Interactive, TripCo, ExpediaCo and GCI Liberty and there are overlapping directors. With the exception of Liberty Interactive's current ownership of shares of our non-voting Series C common stock, which we expect to be held by GCI Liberty after the completion of the GCI Transactions, none of these companies has any ownership interest in any of the others. Our executive officers and members of our company's board of directors have fiduciary duties to our stockholders. Likewise, any such persons who serve in similar capacities at Liberty, Liberty Interactive, TripCo, ExpediaCo, GCI Liberty or any other public company have fiduciary duties to that company's stockholders. For example, there may be the potential for a conflict of interest when our company, Liberty, Liberty Interactive, TripCo, ExpediaCo or GCI Liberty pursues acquisitions and other business opportunities that may be suitable for each of them. Therefore, such persons may have conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting more than one of the companies to which they owe fiduciary duties. Our company has renounced its rights to certain business opportunities and our restated certificate of incorporation provides that no director or officer of our company will breach their fiduciary duty and therefore be liable to our company or its stockholders by reason of the fact that any such individual directs a corporate opportunity to another person or entity (including Liberty, Liberty Interactive, TripCo, ExpediaCo and GCI Liberty) instead of our company, or does not refer or communicate information regarding such corporate opportunity to our company, unless (x) such opportunity was expressly offered to such person solely in his or her capacity as a director or officer of our company or as a director or officer of any of our subsidiaries, and (y) such opportunity relates to a line of business in which our company or any of its subsidiaries is then directly engaged. In addition, any potential conflict that qualifies as a \"related party transaction\" (as defined in Item 404 of Regulation S-K) is subject to review by an independent committee of the applicable issuer's board of directors in accordance with its corporate governance guidelines. In addition, we understand that GCI Liberty is expected to adopt similar renouncement and waiver provisions if it is successfully able to reincorporate in Delaware following the closing of the GCI Transactions. Any other potential conflicts that arise will be addressed on a case-by-case basis, keeping in mind the applicable fiduciary duties owed by the executive officers and directors of each issuer. From time to time, we may enter into transactions with Liberty, Liberty Interactive, TripCo, ExpediaCo or GCI Liberty and/or their respective subsidiaries or other affiliates. There can be no assurance that the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to our company, Liberty, Liberty Interactive, TripCo, ExpediaCo or GCI Liberty or any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates as would be the case where there is no overlapping officer or director.. Our inter-company agreements were negotiated while we were a subsidiary of Liberty.. We entered into a number of inter-company agreements covering matters such as tax sharing and our responsibility for certain liabilities previously undertaken by Liberty for certain of our businesses. In addition, we entered into a services agreement with Liberty pursuant to which it will provide to us certain management, administrative, financial, treasury, accounting, tax, legal and other services, for which we will reimburse them on a fixed fee basis. The terms of all of these agreements were established while we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of Liberty, and hence may not be the result of arms' length negotiations. We believe that the terms of these inter-company agreements are commercially reasonable and fair to all parties under the circumstances;. I-27. Table of Contents. however, conflicts could arise in the interpretation or any extension or renegotiation of the foregoing agreements after the Broadband Spin-Off.. Factors Relating to Charter. The following risks relate specifically to our equity affiliate Charter. If any of these risks were realized, they could have a material adverse effect on the value of our equity interests in Charter, which could negatively impact our stock price and our financial prospects.. If Charter is not able to successfully complete the integration of its business with that of Legacy Time Warner Cable and Legacy Bright House, the anticipated benefits of the Transactions may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected. In such circumstance, Charter may not perform as expected and the value of Charter's Class A common stock may be adversely affected.. There can be no assurances that Charter can successfully complete the integration of its business with that of Legacy Time Warner Cable and Legacy Bright House. Charter now has significantly more systems, assets, investments, businesses, customers and employees than each company did prior to the Transactions. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of customers, the disruption of Charter's ongoing businesses or in unexpected integration issues, higher than expected integration costs and an overall post-completion integration process that takes longer than originally anticipated. The process of integrating Legacy Time Warner Cable and Legacy Bright House with the Legacy Charter operations will require significant capital expenditures and the expansion of certain operations and operating and financial systems. Charter management continues to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the integration process and there is a significant degree of difficulty and management involvement inherent in that process.. Even if the new businesses are successfully integrated, it may not be possible to realize the benefits that are expected to result from the Transactions, or realize these benefits within the time frame that is expected. For example, the benefits of Charter's pricing and packaging and converting our video product to all-digital in certain Legacy Time Warner Cable and Legacy Bright House systems may not be fully realized or may take longer than anticipated, or the benefits from the Transactions may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the businesses and increased operating costs. If the combined company fails to realize the anticipated benefits from the transactions, its liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and/or share price may be adversely affected. In addition, at times, the attention of certain members of Charter's management and resources may be focused on the integration of the businesses and diverted from day-to-day business operations, which may disrupt the business of the combined company.. Charter operates in a very competitive business environment, which affects its ability to attract and retain customers and can adversely affect its business, operations and financial results.. The industry in which Charter operates is highly competitive and has become more so in recent years. In some instances, Charter competes against companies with fewer regulatory burdens, better access to financing, greater personnel resources, greater resources for marketing, greater and more favorable brand name recognition, and long-established relationships with regulatory authorities and customers. Increasing consolidation in the cable industry and the repeal of certain ownership rules have provided additional benefits to certain of Charter's competitors, either through access to financing, resources, or efficiencies of scale.. Charter's residential video service faces competition from a number of sources, including direct broadcast satellite services, as well as other companies that deliver movies, television shows and other video programming over broadband Internet connections to TVs, computers, tablets and mobile devices. Charter's residential Internet service faces competition from the phone companies' DSL, FTTH and wireless broadband offerings as well as from a variety of companies that offer other forms of online services, including wireless and satellite-based broadband services. Charter's residential voice service and its planned mobile service competes with wireless and wireline phone providers, as well as other forms of communication, such as text messaging on cellular phones, instant messaging, social networking services, video conferencing and email. Competition from these companies, including intensive marketing efforts with aggressive pricing, exclusive programming and increased HD broadcasting may have an adverse impact on Charter's ability to attract and retain customers.. I-28. Table of Contents. Overbuilds could also adversely affect Charter's growth, financial condition, and results of operations, by creating or increasing competition. Charter is aware of traditional overbuild situations impacting certain of its markets, however, Charter is unable to predict the extent to which additional overbuild situations may occur.. Charter's services may not allow it to compete effectively. Competition may reduce its expected growth of future cash flows which may contribute to future impairments of Charter's franchises and goodwill and Charter's ability to meet cash flow requirements, including debt service requirements.. Charter faces risks relating to competition for the leisure time and discretionary spending of audiences, which has intensified in part due to advances in technology and changes in consumer expectations and behavior.. In addition to the various competitive factors discussed above, Charter is subject to risks relating to increasing competition for the leisure time, shifting consumer needs and discretionary spending of consumers. Charter competes with all other sources of entertainment, news and information delivery, as well as a broad range of communications products and services. Technological advancements, such as new video formats and Internet streaming and downloading of programming that can be viewed on televisions, computers, smartphones and tablets, many of which have been beneficial to Charter, have nonetheless increased the number of entertainment and information delivery choices available to consumers and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation.. Newer products and services, particularly alternative methods for the distribution, sale and viewing of content will likely continue to be developed, further increasing the number of competitors that Charter faces. The increasing number of choices available to audiences, including low-cost or free choices, could negatively impact not only consumer demand for Charter's products and services, but also advertisers' willingness to purchase advertising from Charter. Charter competes for the sale of advertising revenue with television networks and stations, as well as other advertising platforms, such as radio, print and, increasingly, online media. Charter's failure to effectively anticipate or adapt to new technologies and changes in consumer expectations and behavior could significantly adversely affect its competitive position and its business and results of operations.. Charter's exposure to the economic conditions of its current and potential customers, vendors and third parties could adversely affect its cash flow, results of operations and financial condition.. Charter is exposed to risks associated with the economic conditions of its current and potential customers, the potential financial instability of its customers and their financial ability to purchase its products. If there were a general economic downturn, Charter may experience increased cancellations by its customers or unfavorable changes in the mix of products purchased, including an increase in the number of homes that replace their video service with Internet-delivered and/or over-air content, which would negatively impact Charter's ability to attract customers, increase rates and maintain or increase revenue. In addition, providing video services is an established and highly penetrated business. Charter's ability to gain new video subscribers is dependent to a large extent on growth in occupied housing in its service areas, which is influenced by both national and local economic conditions. Weak economic conditions may also have a negative impact on Charter's advertising revenue. These events have adversely affected Charter in the past, and may adversely affect its cash flow, results of operations and financial condition if a downturn were to occur.. In addition, Charter is susceptible to risks associated with the potential financial instability of the vendors and third parties on which Charter relies to provide products and services or to which it outsources certain functions. The same economic conditions that may affect Charter's customers, as well as volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, also could adversely affect vendors and third parties and lead to significant increases in prices, reduction in output or the bankruptcy of Charter's vendors or third parties upon which Charter relies. Any interruption in the services provided by Charter's vendors or by third parties could adversely affect Charter's cash flow, results of operation and financial condition.. Charter faces risks inherent in its commercial business.. Charter may encounter unforeseen difficulties as it increases the scale of its service offerings to businesses. Charter sells Internet access, data networking and fiber connectivity to cellular towers and office buildings, and video and business voice services to businesses and has increased its focus on growing this business. In order to grow its commercial business, Charter expects to continue to invest in technology, equipment and personnel focused on the commercial business. Commercial business. I-29. Table of Contents. customers often require service level agreements and generally have heightened customer expectations for reliability of services. If Charter's efforts to build the infrastructure to scale the commercial business are not successful, the growth of its commercial services business would be limited. Charter depends on interconnection and related services provided by certain third parties for the growth of its commercial business. As a result, its ability to implement changes as the services grow may be limited. If Charter is unable to meet these service level requirements or expectations, its commercial business could be adversely affected. Finally, Charter expects advances in communications technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and the regulatory and legislative environment. Consequently, Charter is unable to predict the effect that ongoing or future developments in these areas might have on its voice and commercial businesses and operations.. Programming costs are rising at a much faster rate than wages or inflation, and Charter may not have the ability to reduce or moderate the growth rates of, or pass on to its customers, its increasing programming costs, which would adversely affect its cash flow and operating margins.. Video programming has been, and is expected to continue to be, Charter's largest operating expense item. In recent years, the cable industry has experienced a rapid escalation in the cost of programming. Charter expects programming costs to continue to increase due to a variety of factors including amounts paid for broadcast station retransmission consent, annual increases imposed by programmers, including sports programmers, and the carriage of incremental programming, including new services and VOD programming. The inability to fully pass programming cost increases on to its customers has had, and is expected in the future to have, an adverse impact on Charter's cash flow and operating margins associated with the video product. Charter has programming contracts that have expired and others that will expire at or before the end of 2018. There can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed on favorable or comparable terms. In addition, a number of programmers have begun to sell their services through alternative distribution channels, including IP-based platforms, which are less secure than Charter's video distribution platforms. There is growing evidence that these less secure video distribution platforms are leading to video product theft via password sharing among customers. Password sharing may drive down the number of customers who pay for certain programming, putting programmer revenues at risk, and which in turn may cause certain programmers to seek even higher programming fees from Charter. To the extent that Charter is unable to reach agreement with certain programmers on terms that it believes are reasonable, Charter has been, and may be in the future, forced to remove such programming channels from its line-up, which may result in a loss of customers. Charter's failure to carry programming that is attractive to its customers could adversely impact Charter's customer levels, operations and financial results. In addition, if Charter's Internet customers are unable to access desirable content online because content providers block or limit access by its customers as a class, its ability to gain and retain customers, especially Internet customers, may be negatively impacted.. Increased demands by owners of some broadcast stations for carriage of other services or payments to those broadcasters for retransmission consent are likely to further increase Charter's programming costs. Federal law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between \"must-carry\" rights and an alternative \"retransmission-consent\" regime. When a station opts for the retransmission-consent regime, Charter is not allowed to carry the station's signal without that station's permission. In some cases, Charter carries stations under short-term arrangements while it attempts to negotiate new long-term retransmission agreements. If negotiations with these programmers prove unsuccessful, they could require Charter to cease carrying their signals, possibly for an indefinite period. Any loss of stations could make its video service less attractive to customers, which could result in less subscription and advertising revenue. In retransmission-consent negotiations, broadcasters often condition consent with respect to one station on carriage of one or more other stations or programming services in which they or their affiliates have an interest. Carriage of these other services, as well as increased fees for retransmission rights, may increase Charter's programming expenses and diminish the amount of capacity it has available to introduce new services, which could have an adverse effect on its business and financial results.. Charter's inability to respond to technological developments and meet customer demand for new products and services could adversely affect its ability to compete effectively.. Charter operates in a highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environment. From time to time, Charter may pursue strategic initiatives, including, for example, its mobile strategy. Charter's success is, to a large extent, dependent on its ability to acquire, develop, adopt, upgrade and exploit new and existing technologies to address consumers' changing demands and distinguish its services from those of its competitors. Charter may not be able to accurately predict technological trends or the success of new products and services. If Charter chooses technologies or equipment that are less effective, cost-efficient or attractive to customers than those chosen by its competitors, if Charter offers services that fail to appeal to consumers, are not available at competitive prices or that do not function as expected, or if Charter is not able to fund the. I-30. Table of Contents. expenditures necessary to keep pace with technological developments, its competitive position could deteriorate, and its business and financial results could suffer.. The ability of some of Charter's competitors to introduce new technologies, products and services more quickly than Charter does may adversely affect its competitive position. Furthermore, advances in technology, decreases in the cost of existing technologies or changes in competitors' product and service offerings may require Charter in the future to make additional research and development expenditures or to offer at no additional charge or at a lower price certain products and services that Charter currently offers to customers separately or at a premium. In addition, the uncertainty of Charter's ability, and the costs, to obtain intellectual property rights from third parties could impact its ability to respond to technological advances in a timely and effective manner.. Charter's inability to maintain and expand its upgraded systems and provide advanced services such as a state of the art user interface in a timely manner, or to anticipate the demands of the marketplace, could materially adversely affect Charter's ability to attract and retain customers. In addition, as Charter launches its new mobile services using virtual network operator rights from a third party, Charter expects an initial funding period to grow a new product as well as negative working capital impacts from the timing of device-related cash flows when Charter provides the handset or tablet pursuant to equipment installation plans. Consequently, its growth, financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially.. Charter depends on third party service providers, suppliers and licensors; thus, if it is unable to procure the necessary services, equipment, software or licenses on reasonable terms and on a timely basis, its ability to offer services could be impaired, and Charter's growth, operations, business, financial results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Charter depends on a limited number of third party service providers, suppliers and licensors to supply some of the services, hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide some of its services. Some of Charter's hardware, software and operational support vendors, and service providers represent its sole source of supply or have, either through contract or as a result of intellectual property rights, a position of some exclusivity. If any of these parties breaches or terminates its agreement with Charter or otherwise fails to perform its obligations in a timely manner, demand exceeds these vendors' capacity, they experience operating or financial difficulties, they significantly increase the amount Charter pays for necessary products or services, or they cease production of any necessary product due to lack of demand, profitability or a change in ownership or are otherwise unable to provide the equipment or services Charter needs in a timely manner, at its specifications and at reasonable prices, its ability to provide some services might be materially adversely affected, or the need to procure or develop alternative sources of the affected materials or services might delay Charter's ability to serve its customers. In addition, the existence of only a limited number of vendors of key technologies can lead to less product innovation and higher costs. These events could materially and adversely affect Charter's ability to retain and attract customers and its operations, business, financial results and financial condition.. Charter's cable systems have historically been restricted to using one of two proprietary conditional access security systems, which Charter believes has limited the number of manufacturers producing set-top boxes for such systems. As an alternative, Charter has developed a new conditional access security system which can be downloaded into set-top boxes with features Charter specifies that could be provided by a variety of manufacturers. Charter refers to its specified set-top box as the Worldbox. Additionally, Charter is developing technology to allow its two current proprietary conditional access security systems to be software downloadable into its Worldbox.  In order to realize the broadest benefits of Charter's Worldbox technology, Charter must now complete the support for the downloadable proprietary conditional access security systems within the Worldbox. Charter cannot provide assurances that this implementation will ultimately be successful or completed in the expected timeframe or at the expected budget.. Charter's business may be adversely affected if Charter cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which its business depends.. Charter relies on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and licenses and other agreements with its employees, customers, suppliers and other parties to establish and maintain Charter's intellectual property rights in technology and the products and services used in its operations. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change, Charter both develops its own technologies, products and services and relies on technologies developed or licensed by third parties. However, any of Charter's intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit Charter to take advantage of current industry trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which. I-31. Table of Contents. could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product or service offerings or other competitive harm. Charter may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, claims of intellectual property infringement could require Charter to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question, which could require Charter to change its business practices or offerings and limit its ability to compete effectively. Even unsuccessful claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and may divert management's attention and resources away from Charter's business. In recent years, the number of intellectual property infringement claims has been increasing in the communications and entertainment industries, and, with increasing frequency, Charter is party to litigation alleging that certain of its services or technologies infringe the intellectual property rights of others.. Various events could disrupt Charter's networks, information systems or properties and could impair its operating activities and negatively impact Charter's reputation and financial results.. Network and information systems technologies are critical to Charter's operating activities, both for its internal uses, such as network management and supplying services to Charter's customers, including customer service operations and programming delivery. Network or information system shutdowns or other service disruptions caused by events such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, \"cyber attacks,\" process breakdowns, denial of service attacks and other malicious activity pose increasing risks. Both unsuccessful and successful \"cyber attacks\" on companies have continued to increase in frequency, scope and potential harm in recent years. While Charter develops and maintains systems seeking to prevent systems-related events and security breaches from occurring, the development and maintenance of these systems is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as techniques used in such attacks become more sophisticated and change frequently. Charter, and the third parties on which Charter relies, may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. While from time to time attempts have been made to access Charter's network, these attempts have not as yet resulted in any material release of information, degradation or disruption to its network and information systems.. Charter's network and information systems are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, accidents, natural disasters (including extreme weather arising from short-term or any long-term changes in weather patterns), terrorist attacks and similar events. Further, the impacts associated with extreme weather or long-term changes in weather patterns, such as rising sea levels or increased and intensified storm activity, may cause increased business interruptions or may require the relocation of some of Charter's facilities. Charter's system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and Charter's disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities.. Any of these events, if directed at, or experienced by, Charter or technologies upon which Charter depends, could have adverse consequences on Charter's network, customers and business, including degradation of service, service disruption, excessive call volume to call centers, and damage to Charter's or its customers' equipment and data. Large expenditures may be necessary to repair or replace damaged property, networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. Moreover, the amount and scope of insurance that Charter maintains against losses resulting from any such events or security breaches may not be sufficient to cover Charter's losses or otherwise adequately compensate Charter for any disruptions to its business that may result. Any such significant service disruption could result in damage to Charter's reputation and credibility, customer dissatisfaction and ultimately a loss of customers or revenue. Any significant loss of customers or revenue, or significant increase in costs of serving those customers, could adversely affect Charter's growth, financial condition and results of operations.. Furthermore, Charter's operating activities could be subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification or accidental release or loss of information maintained in its information technology systems and networks and those of its third-party vendors, including customer, personnel and vendor data. Charter provides certain confidential, proprietary and personal information to third parties in connection with its business, and there is a risk that this information may be compromised.. As a result of the increasing awareness concerning the importance of safeguarding personal information, the potential misuse of such information and legislation that has been adopted or is being considered regarding the protection, privacy and security of personal information, information-related risks are increasing, particularly for businesses like Charter's that process, store and transmit large amount of data, including personal information for Charter's customers. Charter could be exposed to significant costs if such risks were to materialize, and such events could damage Charter's reputation, credibility and business and have a negative impact on its revenue. Charter could be subject to regulatory actions and claims made by consumers in. I-32. Table of Contents. private litigations involving privacy issues related to consumer data collection and use practices. Charter also could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach.. The risk described above may be increased during the period in which Charter is integrating its people, processes and systems as a result of the Transactions.. For tax purposes, Charter could experience a deemed ownership change in the future that could limit its ability to use its tax loss carryforwards.. Charter had approximately $10.9 billion of federal tax net operating loss carryforwards resulting in a gross deferred tax asset of approximately $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2017. These losses resulted from the operations of Charter Communications Holdings Company, LLC (\"Charter Holdco\") and its subsidiaries, and from loss carryforwards received as a result of the Time Warner Cable Merger. Federal tax net operating loss carryforwards expire in the years 2018 through 2035. In addition, Charter had state tax net operating loss carryforwards resulting in a gross deferred tax asset (net of federal tax benefit) of approximately $359 million as of December 31, 2017. State tax net operating loss carryforwards generally expire in the years 2018 through 2037.. In the past, Charter has experienced \"ownership changes\" as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\"). In general, an \"ownership change\" occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by \"5-percent stockholders\" (within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by such \"5-percent stockholders\" at any time over the preceding three years. As a result, Charter is subject to an annual limitation on the use of its loss carryforwards which existed at November 30, 2009 for the first \"ownership change,\" those that existed at May 1, 2013 for the second \"ownership change,\" and those created at May 18, 2016 for the third \"ownership change.\" The limitation on Charter's ability to use its loss carryforwards, in conjunction with the loss carryforward expiration provisions, could reduce its ability to use a portion of its loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income, which could result in Charter being required to make material cash tax payments. Charter's ability to make such income tax payments, if any, will depend at such time on its liquidity or its ability to raise additional capital, and/or on receipt of payments or distributions from Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries.. If Charter were to experience additional ownership changes in the future (as a result of purchases and sales of stock by its \"5-percent stockholders,\" new issuances or redemptions of its stock, certain acquisitions of its stock and issuances, redemptions, sales or other dispositions or acquisitions of interests in Charter's \"5-percent stockholders\"), its ability to use its loss carryforwards could become subject to further limitations.. If Legacy Time Warner Cable's Separation Transactions (as defined below), including the Distribution (as defined below), do not qualify as tax-free, either as a result of actions taken or not taken by Legacy Time Warner Cable or as a result of the failure of certain representations by Legacy Time Warner Cable to be true, Legacy Time Warner Cable has agreed to indemnify Time Warner Inc. for its taxes resulting from such disqualification, which would be significant.. As part of Legacy Time Warner Cable's separation from Time Warner Inc. (\"Time Warner\") in March 2009 (the \"Separation\"), Time Warner received a private letter ruling from the IRS and Time Warner and Time Warner Cable received opinions of tax counsel confirming that the transactions undertaken in connection with the Separation, including the transfer by a subsidiary of Time Warner of its 12.43% non-voting common stock interest in TW NY Cable Holding Inc. to Legacy Time Warner Cable in exchange for 80 million newly issued shares of Legacy Time Warner Cable's Class A common stock, Legacy Time Warner Cable's payment of a special cash dividend to holders of Legacy Time Warner Cable's outstanding Class A and Class B common stock, the conversion of each share of Legacy Time Warner Cable's outstanding Class A and Class B common stock into one share of Legacy Time Warner Cable common stock, and the pro-rata dividend of all shares of Legacy Time Warner Cable common stock held by Time Warner to holders of record of Time Warner's common stock (the \"Distribution\" and, together with all of the transactions, the \"Separation Transactions\"), should generally qualify as tax-free to Time Warner and its stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The ruling and opinions rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Time Warner and Legacy Time Warner Cable regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Time Warner and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinions and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinions, the IRS could determine on audit that the Separation. I-33. Table of Contents. Transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in the stock ownership of Time Warner or Legacy Time Warner Cable after the Distribution.. Under the tax sharing agreement among Time Warner and Legacy Time Warner Cable, Legacy Time Warner Cable generally would be required to indemnify Time Warner against its taxes resulting from the failure of any of the Separation Transactions to qualify as tax-free as a result of (i) certain actions or failures to act by Legacy Time Warner Cable or (ii) the failure of certain representations made by Legacy Time Warner Cable to be true. In addition, even if Legacy Time Warner Cable bears no contractual responsibility for taxes related to a failure of the Separation Transactions to qualify for their intended tax treatment, Treasury regulation section 1.1502-6 imposes on Legacy Time Warner Cable several liability for all Time Warner federal income tax obligations relating to the period during which Legacy Time Warner Cable was a member of the Time Warner federal consolidated tax group, including the date of the Separation Transactions. Similar provisions may apply under foreign, state or local law. Absent Legacy Time Warner Cable causing the Separation Transactions to not qualify as tax-free, Time Warner has indemnified Legacy Time Warner Cable against such several liability arising from a failure of the Separation Transactions to qualify for their intended tax treatment.. If Charter is unable to retain key employees, its ability to manage its business could be adversely affected.. Charter's operational results have depended, and its future results will depend, upon the retention and continued performance of its management team. Charter's ability to retain and hire new key employees for management positions could be impacted adversely by the competitive environment for management talent in the broadband communications industry. The loss of the services of key members of management and the inability or delay in hiring new key employees could adversely affect Charter's ability to manage its business and its future operational and financial results.. Charter has a significant amount of debt and may incur significant additional debt, including secured debt, in the future, which could adversely affect its financial health and its ability to react to changes in its business.. Charter has a significant amount of debt and may (subject to applicable restrictions in its debt instruments) incur additional debt in the future. As of December 31, 2017, Charter's total principal amount of debt was approximately $69.0 billion.. Charter's significant amount of debt could have consequences, such as:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpact its ability to raise additional capital at reasonable rates, or at all;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake it vulnerable to interest rate increases, in part because approximately 14% of its borrowings as of December 31, 2017 were, and may continue to be, subject to variable rates of interest;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texpose it to increased interest expense to the extent it refinances existing debt with higher cost debt;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire it to dedicate a significant portion of its cash flow from operating activities to make payments on its debt, reducing its funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate expenses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimit its flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business, the cable and telecommunications industries, and the economy at large;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tplace it at a disadvantage compared to its competitors that have proportionately less debt; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadversely affect its relationship with customers and suppliers.. If current debt amounts increase, Charter's business results are lower than expected, or credit rating agencies downgrade its debt limiting its access to investment grade markets, the related risks that Charter now faces will intensify.. I-34. Table of Contents. The agreements and instruments governing Charter's debt contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect its ability to operate its business, as well as significantly affect its liquidity.. Charter's credit facilities and the indentures governing its debt contain a number of significant covenants that could adversely affect Charter's ability to operate its business, its liquidity, and its results of operations. These covenants restrict, among other things, Charter's and Charter's subsidiaries' ability to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur additional debt;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trepurchase or redeem equity interests and debt;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tissue equity;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake certain investments or acquisitions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpay dividends or make other distributions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdispose of assets or merge;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into related party transactions; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgrant liens and pledge assets.. Additionally, the Charter Communications Operating, LLC (\"Charter Operating\") credit facilities require Charter Operating to comply with a maximum total leverage covenant and a maximum first lien leverage covenant. The breach of any covenants or obligations in Charter's indentures or credit facilities, not otherwise waived or amended, could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing Charter's long-term indebtedness. In addition, the secured lenders under Charter's notes and the Charter Operating credit facilities could foreclose on their collateral, which includes equity interests in Charter's subsidiaries, and exercise other rights of secured creditors.. Charter's business is subject to extensive governmental legislation and regulation, which could adversely affect its business.. Regulation of the cable industry has increased cable operators' operational and administrative expenses and limited their revenues. Cable operators are subject to various laws and regulations including those covering the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe provision of high-speed Internet service, including transparency rules;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe provision of voice communications;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcable franchise renewals and transfers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe provisioning and marketing of cable equipment and compatibility with new digital technologies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcustomer and employee privacy and data security;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimited rate regulation of video service;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcopyright royalties for retransmitting broadcast signals;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twhen a cable system must carry a particular broadcast station and when it must first obtain retransmission consent to carry a broadcast station;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe provision of channel capacity to unaffiliated commercial leased access programmers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimitations on Charter's ability to enter into exclusive agreements with multiple dwelling unit complexes and control Charter's inside wiring;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tequal employment opportunity, emergency alert systems, disability access, technical standards, marketing practices, customer service, and consumer protection; and. I-35. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tapproval for mergers and acquisitions often accompanied by the imposition of restrictions and requirements on an applicant's business in order to secure approval of the proposed transaction.. Legislators and regulators at all levels of government frequently consider changing, and sometimes do change, existing statutes, rules, regulations, or interpretations thereof, or prescribe new ones. Any future legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative actions may increase Charter's costs or impose additional restrictions on Charter's businesses.. As a result of the closing of the Transactions, Charter's businesses are subject to the conditions set forth in the related FCC Order and DOJ Order and those imposed by state utility commissions and local franchise authorities, and there can be no assurance that these conditions will not have an adverse effect on its businesses and results of operations.. In connection with the Transactions, the related FCC Order, DOJ Order, and approvals from state utility commissions and local franchise authorities incorporated numerous commitments and voluntary conditions made by the parties and imposed numerous conditions on Charter's businesses relating to the operation of Charter's business and other matters. Among other things, (i) Charter is not permitted to charge usage-based prices or impose data caps and is prohibited from charging interconnection fees for qualifying parties; (ii) Charter is prohibited from entering into or enforcing any agreement with a programmer that forbids, limits or creates incentives to limit the programmer's provision of content to OVD and cannot retaliate against programmers for licensing to OVDs; (iii) Charter is not able to avail itself of other distributors' provisions through its \"most favored nation\" provisions if they are inconsistent with this prohibition; (iv) Charter must undertake a number of actions designed to promote diversity; (v) Charter appointed an independent compliance monitor and complies with a broad array of reporting requirements; and (vi) Charter must satisfy various other conditions relating to its Internet services, including building out an additional two million locations with access to a high-speed connection of at least 60 megabits per second, and implementing a reduced price high-speed Internet program for low income families. These and other conditions and commitments relating to the Transactions are of varying duration, ranging from three to seven years. In light of the breadth and duration of the conditions and potential changes in market conditions during the time the conditions and commitments are in effect, there can be no assurance that Charter's compliance, and ability to comply, with the conditions will not have a material adverse effect on its business or results of operations.. Changes to existing statutes, rules, regulations, or interpretations thereof, or adoption of new ones, could have an adverse effect on Charter's business.. There are ongoing efforts to amend or expand the federal, state, and local regulation of some of the services offered over Charter's cable systems, which may compound the regulatory risks Charter already faces. For example, with respect to its retail broadband Internet access service, the FCC has reclassified the service twice in the last few years, with the first change adding regulatory obligations and the second change largely removing those new regulatory obligations. These changes reflect a lack of regulatory certainty in this business area, which may continue as a result of litigation, as well as future legislative or administrative changes.. Other potential legislative and regulatory changes could adversely impact Charter's business by increasing its costs and competition and limiting its ability to offer services in a manner that that would maximize its revenue potential.  These changes could  include, for example, the adoption of new privacy restrictions on Charter's collection, use and disclosure of certain customer information, new data security and cybersecurity mandates that could result in additional network and information security requirements for Charter's business, new restraints on its discretion over programming decisions, including the provision of public, educational and governmental access programming and unaffiliated, commercial leased access programming, new restrictions on the rates Charter charges for video programming and the marketing of that video programming, changes to the cable industry's compulsory copyright license to carry broadcast signals, new requirements to assure the availability of navigation devices (such as set-top boxes) from third party providers, new Universal Service Fund obligations on Charter's provision of Internet service that would add to the cost of that service, increases in government-administered broadband subsidies to rural areas that could result in subsidized overbuilding of Charter's more rural facilities, and changes in the regulatory framework for VoIP phone service, including the scope of regulatory obligations associated with Charter's VoIP service and Charter's ability to interconnect its VoIP service with incumbent providers of traditional telecommunications service.. If any of these pending laws and regulations are enacted, they could affect Charter's operations and require significant expenditures.  Charter cannot predict future developments in these areas, and Charter is already subject to Charter-specific. I-36. Table of Contents. conditions regarding certain Internet practices as a result of the FCC's approval of the Transactions, but any changes to the regulatory framework for Charter's video, Internet or VoIP services could have a negative impact on its business and results of operations.. It remains uncertain what rule changes, if any, will ultimately be adopted by Congress and the FCC and what operating or financial impact any such rules might have on Charter, including on its programming agreements, customer privacy and the user experience. In addition, the FCC's Enforcement Bureau has been actively investigating certain industry practices of various companies and imposing forfeitures for alleged regulatory violations.. Charter's cable system franchises are subject to non-renewal or termination and are non-exclusive. The failure to renew a franchise or the grant of additional franchises in one or more key markets could adversely affect its business.. Charter's cable systems generally operate pursuant to franchises, permits, and similar authorizations issued by a state or local governmental authority controlling the public rights-of-way. Many franchises establish comprehensive facilities and service requirements, as well as specific customer service standards and monetary penalties for non-compliance. In many cases, franchises are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with significant provisions set forth in the franchise agreement governing system operations. Franchises are generally granted for fixed terms and must be periodically renewed. Franchising authorities may resist granting a renewal if either past performance or the prospective operating proposal is considered inadequate. Franchise authorities often demand concessions or other commitments as a condition to renewal. In some instances, local franchises have not been renewed at expiration, and Charter has operated and is operating under either temporary operating agreements or without a franchise while negotiating renewal terms with the local franchising authorities.. There can be no assurance that Charter will be able to comply with all significant provisions of its franchise agreements and certain of its franchisers have from time to time alleged that Charter has not complied with these agreements. Additionally, although historically Charter has renewed its franchises without incurring significant costs, there can be no assurance that Charter will be able to renew, or to renew as favorably, its franchises in the future. A termination of or a sustained failure to renew a franchise in one or more key markets could adversely affect Charter's business in the affected geographic area.. Charter's cable system franchises are non-exclusive. Consequently, local and state franchising authorities can grant additional franchises to competitors in the same geographic area or operate their own cable systems. In some cases, local government entities and municipal utilities may legally compete with Charter on more favorable terms. Potential competitors (like Google) have recently pursued and obtained local franchises that are more favorable than the incumbent operator's franchise.. Tax legislation and administrative initiatives or challenges to Charter's tax and fee positions could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition.. Charter operates cable systems in locations throughout the United States and, as a result, is subject to the tax laws and regulations of federal, state and local governments. From time to time, various legislative and/or administrative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect Charter's tax positions. There can be no assurance that its effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. Certain states and localities have imposed or are considering imposing new or additional taxes or fees on Charter's services or changing the methodologies or base on which certain fees and taxes are computed. Potential changes include additional taxes or fees on Charter's services which could impact its customers, changes to income tax sourcing rules and other changes to general business taxes, central/unit-level assessment of property taxes and other matters that could increase Charter's income, franchise, sales, use and/or property tax liabilities. For example, some local franchising authorities are seeking to impose franchise fee assessments on our broadband Internet access service, and more may do so in the future. If they do so, and challenges to such assessments are unsuccessful, it could adversely impact Charter's costs. In addition, federal, state and local tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that Charter's tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that it would be successful in any such challenge.. I-37. Table of Contents. Factors Relating to Skyhook. Skyhook faces competition from multiple sources.. Skyhook's Precision Location Solution competes against (1) other satellite and terrestrial based location technology offerings, such as GPS, Observed Time Difference of Arrival and terrestrial beacons; (2) other providers of Wi-Fi and cell-based positioning, such as Google and HERE, a former subsidiary of Nokia; and (3) other in-house developed location solutions. In the smartphone location provider market, because Apple and Google control a large percentage of the market share for smartphone operating systems and both offer location provider services free as part of the iOS and Android markets, Skyhook is constrained in the distribution and monetization of the Precision Location Solution in that market. There are also a number of new location technologies in development which may further increase competition to be a location solution for new devices (such as Internet of Things and wearable devices) and which may require Skyhook to meet more stringent accuracy standards. In addition, Skyhook's Geospatial Insights services compete against other geofencing and location data offerings from other niche location companies.. Certain of Skyhook's competitors are substantially larger than Skyhook and have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. Thus, many of these large enterprises are in a better position to withstand any significant reduction in spending by customers in its markets, and often have broader product lines and market focus, have greater brand recognition and may not be as susceptible to downturns in a single market. These competitors may also be able to bundle their products together (such as with mapping software) to meet the needs of a particular customer, may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements and may be capable of delivering more complete solutions than Skyhook is able to provide. If large enterprises that currently do not compete directly with Skyhook choose to enter its markets by acquisition or otherwise, competition for both revenue and data would likely intensify. In addition, the growth of new location technologies currently in development may further increase competition to provide these new technologies. If Skyhook is not able to compete successfully for customers, its financial position may be materially adversely affected.. Skyhook is investing in a number of new markets, products and services, but those efforts are still in the early stages and there is no guarantee that such investments will be successful.. In addition to its traditional Precision Location Solution, Skyhook is also investing significant capital in the development, introduction and sale of its Geospatial Insights products.  Investing in these new markets and technologies  -  many of which are early stage  -  necessarily involves significant risks and uncertainties, including the possibility that revenues from such investments will be insufficient to offset any new liabilities assumed and expenses, an inadequate return of capital on its investments, and the distraction of management and Skyhook from current operations.  Such risks and uncertainties could cause Skyhook to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such investments and incur unanticipated liabilities.. Skyhook's research, development and other investments in new technologies, products or services may not succeed due to, among other things: improvements in alternate technologies in ways that reduce the advantages it anticipates from its investments; competitors' products or services being more cost effective, having more capabilities or fewer limitations or being brought to market faster than Skyhook's new products and services; and competitors having longer operating histories in industry segments that are new to Skyhook. Skyhook may also underestimate the costs of or overestimate the future operating income and/or margins that could result from these investments, and these investments may not, or may take many years to, generate material returns. If Skyhook's new technologies, products or services are not successful, or are not successful in the time frame Skyhook anticipates,  Skyhook may incur significant costs and/or asset impairments, its business may not grow as anticipated, its revenues and/or margins may be negatively impacted and/or its reputation may be harmed.. The revenue of Skyhook depends on a limited number of customers, and the loss of its more significant customers could adversely affect its business.. Skyhook derives a significant amount of its revenue from a limited number of customers, and it is anticipated that these customers will continue to represent a significant portion of the revenue of Skyhook. Because Skyhook depends on a limited number of customers, the loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Certain of these customers may fail to renew their contracts with Skyhook from time to time, creating additional risk with respect to the potential loss of revenue from these customers. In addition, Skyhook depends on certain customers to transmit location data that assists in keeping Skyhook's proprietary reference database current. If Skyhook is unable to maintain access to these. I-38. Table of Contents. data sources (or alternative sources are unavailable), then Skyhook's ability to derive revenue for its capabilities could be harmed. The loss or reduction of business or data from any combination of these existing customers of Skyhook would materially adversely affect revenue, financial condition and results of operations of Skyhook.. The revenue of Skyhook depends on the performance of device manufacturers, application developers and other resellers of its technology.. Skyhook does not sell its Precisions Location Solution directly to end consumers. Instead, Skyhook provides location technology that integrates with devices and applications that are created or distributed by third parties. Accordingly, Skyhook's future growth significantly depends on third parties choosing to incorporate its technology into new device types and markets other than smartphone devices, such as industrial Internet of Things, connected home and wearable markets.  Skyhook also depends on its customers, resellers and licensees to develop products and services with value-added features to drive sales and demand. There can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful.. Skyhook reported a net operating loss for the year as a result of its investments in new products and markets, and there is no assurance it will be able to attain profitable operations.. Skyhook reported a net operating loss for the year due, in part, to significant operating expenses related to the aforementioned investments in new markets, products and services.  These new investments are intended to replace the revenue that Skyhook lost from the decline of its U-TDOA Service and the loss of another large Skyhook customer, as well as to further grow and diversify Skyhook's revenue stream in a competitive technological environment.  There can be no assurance that these investments will drive the revenue growth that is necessary to replace contracts that were lost or that they will be sufficient to achieve profitability.. The underlying business and technology of Skyhook depends on the commercial deployment of wireless and other communications technologies and its ability to continue to drive customer demand for Skyhook products and services in a rapidly evolving and developing industry.. Skyhook develops, patents and commercializes products and services based on wireless and other communications technologies. Skyhook depends on third parties to deploy these wireless technologies and networks in order to operate and deploy Skyhook's products and services. If third parties do not deploy wireless networks or other communication technologies used by Skyhook to operate its location services, or if new technologies or standards are introduced, it could have a material adverse effect on Skyhook's results of operations and financial condition.. As a result of this possibility, Skyhook must stay abreast of rapidly evolving technological developments and offerings (such as the introduction of LoRa Wireless RF technology, a long range, low power consumption and data transmission protocol for Internet of Things devices) to remain competitive and increase the utility of their products and services, and it must be able to incorporate new technologies into its products and services in order to address the needs of its customers. The failure to successfully introduce new or enhanced products and services on a timely and cost-competitive basis that complies with evolving industry standards and regulations or the inability to continue to market existing products on a cost-competitive basis could also have a material adverse effect on Skyhook's results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, in order to successfully develop and market certain of Skyhook's products and services, Skyhook may be required to enter into technology development or licensing agreements with third parties. Skyhook cannot provide assurances that it will be able to timely enter into necessary technology development or licensing agreements on reasonable terms, or at all.. Actions taken by Skyhook to protect its intellectual property rights, such as through a licensing program or through litigation to enforce its intellectual property rights, could result in substantial costs, and Skyhook's ability to compete could be harmed if it fails to take such actions or is unsuccessful in doing so.. Skyhook relies primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, licensing arrangements and other methods to protect its intellectual property in the United States and internationally. Skyhook has numerous patents issued, allowed and pending in the United States and/or in foreign jurisdictions which primarily relate to products and the technology used in connection with the products and services it offers.  Skyhook cannot be certain that. I-39. Table of Contents. the steps it has taken, or may take in the future, will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of its proprietary information and technologies, particularly in foreign countries where international treaties, organizations and foreign laws may not protect its proprietary intellectual property rights as fully or as readily as United States laws or where the enforcement of such laws may be lacking or ineffective. Any pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved, and any issued patents may not provide Skyhook with competitive advantages, or such issued patents may be challenged, invalidated, infringed, circumvented or misappropriated by third parties.. While Skyhook believes that it has a defensible and useful patent portfolio and it actively seeks to generate revenue through the licensing of its patents and other assets, it cannot assure you that its attempts to secure future patent licenses will be successful or that it will generate meaningful revenue from licensing. In addition, in connection with actively seeking to license and enforce its patents and other intellectual property, Skyhook has in the past been required and may be required in the future to initiate litigation in order to assert claims of infringement of its intellectual property, enforce patents issued or licensed to them, protect their trade secrets or know-how or to determine the scope and/or validity of a third party's patent or other proprietary rights. Such litigation may involve significant costs and any such litigation could also result in rulings impacting the validity or enforceability of Skyhook's patents, which could result in new or increased competition that could have a material adverse effect on Skyhook's results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurances that Skyhook would be successful in any such litigation.. Skyhook could face intellectual property lawsuits from competitors or non-practicing entities.. Other companies, including some of Skyhook's largest competitors, hold intellectual property rights in its industry which could inhibit Skyhook's ability to introduce new products and services unless it secures necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms. Furthermore, as the number of issued patents increases and as competition intensifies, the volume of intellectual property infringement claims and lawsuits may also increase. Skyhook may in the future become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by Skyhook or parties that it has agreed to indemnify for certain claims of infringement. Third parties may also claim that employees of Skyhook have misappropriated or divulged their former employers' trade secrets or confidential information. Any such litigation, regardless of outcome, could subject Skyhook to significant costs or liabilities or require it to cease using proprietary third party technology and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. If infringement claims are made against Skyhook or its products are found to infringe a third parties' patent or intellectual property, Skyhook or one of its indemnitees may have to seek a license to the third parties' patent or other intellectual property rights. However, Skyhook may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms acceptable to it particularly from its competitors. If Skyhook or one of its indemnitees is unable to obtain a license from a third party for technology that Skyhook uses or that is used in one of its products, Skyhook could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of its products. It may also have to make royalty or other payments, cross license technology or make payments pursuant to third party indemnitees.. The success of Skyhook depends on the integrity of its systems and infrastructures.. Skyhook relies on its enterprise resource planning systems to support such critical business operations as processing sales orders and invoicing, purchasing and supply chain management, human resources and financial reporting. Portions of Skyhook's IT infrastructure may experience interruptions of service or produce errors in connection with systemic failures, systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. Skyhook may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. If Skyhook is unable to successfully implement major systems initiatives and maintain critical information systems, it could encounter difficulties that could have a material adverse impact on its business.. Furthermore, the businesses of Skyhook depend on delivering products and services of consistently high quality and reliability to customers. If the services offered by Skyhook were to fail or not to perform as expected, its services could be rendered ineffective, and any significant or systemic service failure could also result in a loss of customer confidence, as well as reputational damage, resulting in a material adverse impact on Skyhook's business.. I-40. Table of Contents. The regulatory environment in which Skyhook operates is complex.. Skyhook is subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions that involve matters central to its technology and ongoing business, including the collection and storage of location information, privacy and data protection, intellectual property, data security and data retention, and other business and ethics compliance-related laws. The application, scope, interpretation, and enforcement of applicable laws and regulations in many of these areas are often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly-evolving mobile technology industry in which Skyhook operates.  In addition, existing laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from one jurisdiction to another, and inconsistently with Skyhook's current policies and practices. The introduction of new products or the expansion of Skyhook's sales activities in certain jurisdictions may subject it to additional laws and regulations, or increase the risk posed to Skyhook's business by non-compliance.. Skyhook is also monitoring additional proposed and pending legislation and regulations in the U.S. and abroad that are related to its technology and business operations, including regulations that implement specific privacy or data protection rules. There can be no assurance that future legislation or regulations will not have a material impact upon Skyhook's ability to operate its business, collect the location data required for its operational needs, or generate revenue.. The existing and proposed laws and regulations that are applicable to Skyhook's business, as well as any associated inquiries, investigations, or actions from governmental authorities or private citizens, can be costly to comply with and can delay or impede the development of new products, may result in negative publicity or cause reputational damage, may increase operating cost and require significant management time and attention, and may subject Skyhook to various possible remedies, including fines, penalties, injunctions or other orders.. New Data Protection and Data Transfer laws around the world could impact Skyhook's business, its ability to collect location data, and impose significant compliance costs.. Skyhook is, or may become, subject to various data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations in various jurisdictions around the world.  Such laws could impact Skyhook's ability to generate revenue, to transfer or collect data necessary to its operations, or prevent, slow or deter Skyhook's entry into certain regions. For example, as a result of its international activities, Skyhook is subject to laws and regulations that dictate whether, how, and under what circumstances it can transfer or process data from the EU to the United States. In addition, certain activities of Skyhook may be subject to the GDPR which comes into effect in May 2018 and imposes stringent requirements on businesses that collect and process \"personal data\" from individuals in the EU. The GDPR subjects businesses to significant fines and other penalties for non-compliance.. At this stage, the scope, application and enforcement of the GDPR is uncertain. There can be no assurance that Skyhook will be compliant, or that the costs of compliance (and the resources and changes to technology and infrastructure that could be required) will not be material to Skyhook's business.. Privacy concerns relating to location data generally and Skyhook's technology could damage its reputation and deter current and potential users from using its products and applications.. Concerns about the collection of location data generally, or about the specific practices of Skyhook with regard to the collection, use, disclosure, or security of location information or other privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage its reputation and operating results. While Skyhook strives to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as its own posted privacy policies, any failure or perceived failure to comply may result in proceedings or actions against Skyhook by government entities or others, or could cause it to lose users and customers, which could potentially have an adverse effect on Skyhook's data inflows and revenue generating capabilities.. Security breaches and other disruptions, including as a result of cyber attacks, could compromise the information collected and stored by Skyhook and expose it to liability, which would cause business and reputational damage.. In the ordinary course of business, Skyhook collects and stores sensitive data, including intellectual property, its proprietary business information and information about mobile device and radio beacon locations (of its customers and suppliers). The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information in its facilities and on its networks is important to its operations. Despite security measures in place at Skyhook, its information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to. I-41. Table of Contents. attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise its networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disruption of operations, reputational damage, and cause a loss of confidence, which could adversely affect Skyhook's business and revenue.. Factors Relating to our Common Stock and the Securities Market. We expect our stock price to continue to be directly affected by the results of operation of Charter and developments in its business.. The fair value of our investment in Charter, on an as-converted basis, was approximately $18.2 billion as of December 31, 2017, which represents all of our total market value. As a result, our stock price will continue to be directly affected by the results of operations of Charter and the developments in its business.. Although our Series B common stock is quoted on the OTC Markets, there is no meaningful trading market for the stock.. Our Series B common stock is not widely held, with approximately 96% of the outstanding shares beneficially owned by John C. Malone, the Chairman of the board and a director of our company. Although it is quoted on the OTC Markets, it is sparsely traded and does not have an active trading market. The OTC Markets tend to be highly illiquid, in part, because there is no national quotation system by which potential investors can track the market price of shares except through information received or generated by a limited number of broker-dealers that make markets in particular stocks. There is also a greater chance of market volatility for securities that trade on the OTC Markets as opposed to a national exchange or quotation system. This volatility is due to a variety of factors, including a lack of readily available price quotations, lower trading volume, absence of consistent administrative supervision of \"bid\" and \"ask\" quotations, and market conditions. Each share of the Series B common stock is convertible, at any time at the option of the holder, into one share of our Series A common stock, which is listed and traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol \"LBRDA.\". It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our stockholders.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tauthorizing a capital structure with multiple series of common stock: a Series B that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Series A that entitles the holders to one vote per share and a Series C that, except as otherwise required by applicable law, entitles the holders to no voting rights;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tauthorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tclassifying our board of directors with staggered three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our board of directors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimiting who may call special meetings of stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\testablishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequiring stockholder approval by holders of at least 80% of our voting power or the approval by at least 75% of our board of directors with respect to certain extraordinary matters, such as a merger or consolidation of our company, a sale of all or substantially all of our assets or an amendment to our restated certificate of incorporation; and. I-42. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe existence of authorized and unissued stock which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of its management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us.. In addition, John C. Malone currently beneficially owns shares representing the power to direct approximately 47% of the aggregate voting power in our company, due to his beneficial ownership of approximately 96% of the outstanding shares of our Series B common stock as of January 31, 2018.. Holders of a single series of our common stock may not have any remedies if an action by our directors has an adverse effect on only that series of our common stock.. Principles of Delaware law and the provisions of our certificate of incorporation may protect decisions of our board of directors that have a disparate impact upon holders of any single series of our common stock. Under Delaware law, the board of directors has a duty to act with due care and in the best interests of all of our stockholders, including the holders of all series of our common stock. Principles of Delaware law established in cases involving differing treatment of multiple classes or series of stock provide that a board of directors owes an equal duty to all common stockholders regardless of class or series and does not have separate or additional duties to any group of stockholders. As a result, in some circumstances, our directors may be required to make a decision that is viewed as adverse to the holders of one series of our common stock. Under the principles of Delaware law and the business judgment rule, holders may not be able to successfully challenge decisions that they believe have a disparate impact upon the holders of one series of our stock if our board of directors is disinterested and independent with respect to the action taken, is adequately informed with respect to the action taken and acts in good faith and in the honest belief that the board is acting in the best interest of all of our stockholders."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
