[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Described below are certain risks that we believe apply to our business and the industry in which we operate. You should carefully consider each of the following risk factors in conjunction with other information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other public disclosures. The risks described below highlight potential events, trends or other circumstances that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity or access to sources of financing, and consequently, the market value of our common stock. These risks could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results and from guidance we may provide regarding our expectations of future financial performance. The risks described below are those that we have identified as material and is not an exhaustive list of all the risks we face. There may be other risks that we have not identified or that we have deemed to be immaterial. Please refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitation on forward-looking statements set forth on page 1 hereof.. Risks Related to Our Business. Our business depends on domestic capital spending by the oil and natural gas industry, and reductions in capital spending could have a material adverse effewrightct on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is directly affected by our customers' capital spending to explore for, develop and produce oil and natural gas in the United States. The significant decline in oil and natural gas prices that began in late 2014 caused a reduction in the exploration, development and production activities of most of our customers and their spending on our services. These cuts in spending curtailed drilling programs, which resulted in a reduction in the demand for our services, as well as the prices we can charge. These reductions have negatively affected our revenue per average active fleet. While industry conditions improved and activity levels increased during 2017, there can be no assurance that these increased levels will be sustained. In addition, certain of our customers could become unable to pay their vendors and service providers, including us, as a result of a decline in commodity prices. Reduced discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves in our areas of operation as a result of decreased capital spending may also have a negative long-term impact on our business, even in an environment of stronger oil and natural gas prices. Any of these conditions or events could adversely affect our operating results. If the recent recovery increased activity levels do not continue or our customers fail to further increase their capital spending, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors over which we have no control, including:. • expected economic returns to E&P companies of new well completions;. • domestic and foreign economic conditions and supply of and demand for oil and natural gas;. • the level of prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and natural gas;. • the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production;. • the level of domestic and global oil and natural gas inventories;. • the supply of and demand for hydraulic fracturing and equipment in the United States;. • federal, tribal, state and local laws, regulations and taxes, including the policies of governments regarding hydraulic fracturing and oil and natural gas exploration, development and production activities as well as non-U.S. governmental regulations and taxes;. • governmental regulations, including the policies of governments regarding the exploration for and production and development of their oil and natural gas reserves;. • political and economic conditions in oil and natural gas producing countries;. • actions by the members of the OPEC with respect to oil production levels and announcements of potential changes in such levels, including the failure of such countries to comply with production cuts announced in November 2016 and extended in November 2017;. • global weather conditions and natural disasters;. • worldwide political, military and economic conditions;. • the cost of producing and delivering oil and natural gas;. • lead times associated with acquiring equipment and products and availability of qualified personnel;. • the discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves;. 15. Table of Contents. • stockholder activism or activities by non-governmental organizations to limit certain sources of funding for the energy sector or to restrict the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas;. • the availability of water resources, suitable proppant and chemical additives in sufficient quantities for use in hydraulic fracturing fluids;. • advances in exploration, development and production technologies or in technologies affecting energy consumption;. • the potential acceleration of development of alternative fuels; and. • uncertainty in capital and commodities markets and the ability of oil and natural gas companies to raise equity capital and debt financing.. The volatility of oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect the demand for our hydraulic fracturing services and negatively impact our results of operations.. The demand for our hydraulic fracturing services is primarily determined by current and anticipated oil and natural gas prices and the related levels of capital spending and drilling activity in the areas in which we have operations. Volatility or weakness in oil prices or natural gas prices (or the perception that oil prices or natural gas prices will decrease) affects the spending patterns of our customers and may result in the drilling of fewer new wells. This, in turn, could lead to lower demand for our services and may cause lower utilization of our assets. We have experienced, and may in the future experience significant fluctuations in operating results as a result of the reactions of our customers to changes in oil and natural gas prices. For example, prolonged low commodity prices experienced by the oil and natural gas industry beginning in late 2014 and uncertainty about future prices even when prices increased, combined with adverse changes in the capital and credit markets, caused many E&P companies to significantly reduce their capital budgets and drilling activity. This resulted in a significant decline in demand for oilfield services and adversely impacted the prices oilfield services companies could charge for their services.. Prices for oil and natural gas historically have been extremely volatile and are expected to continue to be volatile. During the past four years, the posted WTI price for oil has ranged from a low of $26.21 per Bbl in February 2016 to a high of $107.26 per Bbl in June 2014. During 2017, WTI prices ranged from $42.48 to $60.42 per Bbl. If the prices of oil and natural gas continue to be volatile, reverse their recent increases or decline, our operations, financial condition, cash flows and level of expenditures may be materially and adversely affected.. We may be adversely affected by uncertainty in the global financial markets and the deterioration of the financial condition of our customers.. Our future results may be impacted by the uncertainty caused by an economic downturn, volatility or deterioration in the debt and equity capital markets, inflation, deflation or other adverse economic conditions that may negatively affect us or parties with whom we do business resulting in a reduction in our customers' spending and their non-payment or inability to perform obligations owed to us, such as the failure of customers to honor their commitments or the failure of major suppliers to complete orders. Additionally, during times when the crude oil or natural gas markets weaken, our customers are more likely to experience financial difficulties, including being unable to access debt or equity financing, which could result in a reduction in our customers' spending for our services. In addition, in the course of our business we hold accounts receivable from our customers. In the event of the financial distress or bankruptcy of a customer, we could lose all or a portion of such outstanding accounts receivable associated with that customer. Further, if a customer was to enter into bankruptcy, it could also result in the cancellation of all or a portion of our service contracts with such customer at significant expense or loss of expected revenues to us.. Our operations are subject to significant risks, some of which are beyond our control. These risks may be self-insured, or may not be fully covered under our insurance policies.. Our operations are subject to significant hazards often found in the oil and natural gas industry, such as, but not limited to, accidents, blowouts, explosions, craterings, fires, natural gas leaks, oil and produced water spills and releases of hydraulic fracturing fluids or other well fluids into the environment. These conditions can cause:. • disruption in operations;. • substantial repair or remediation costs;. • personal injury or loss of human life;. • significant damage to or destruction of property, and equipment;. 16. Table of Contents. • environmental pollution, including groundwater contamination;. • unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressures and industrial accidents;. • impairment or suspension of operations; and. • substantial revenue loss.. In addition, our operations are subject to, and exposed to, employee/employer liabilities and risks such as wrongful termination, discrimination, labor organizing, retaliation claims and general human resource related matters.. The occurrence of a significant event or adverse claim in excess of the insurance coverage that we maintain or that is not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, combined results of operations and combined financial condition. Claims for loss of oil and natural gas production and damage to formations can occur in the well services industry. Litigation arising from a catastrophic occurrence at a location where our equipment and services are being used may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting large claims.. We do not have insurance against all foreseeable risks, either because insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs. The occurrence of an event not fully insured against or the failure of an insurer to meet its insurance obligations could result in substantial losses. In addition, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. Insurance may not be available to cover any or all of the risks to which we are subject, or, even if available, it may be inadequate, or insurance premiums or other costs could rise significantly in the future so as to make such insurance prohibitively expensive.. Reliance upon a few large customers may adversely affect our revenue and operating results.. Our top five customers represented approximately 53.0%, 58.5% and 57.5% of our consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. It is likely that we will continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of customers in the future. If a major customer fails to pay us, revenue would be impacted and our operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed. Additionally, if we were to lose any material customer, we may not be able to redeploy our equipment at similar utilization or pricing levels or within a short period of time and such loss could have a material adverse effect on our business until the equipment is redeployed at similar utilization or pricing levels.. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers, and any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers could adversely affect our financial results.. We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers, many of whose operations are concentrated solely in the domestic E&P industry which, as described above, is subject to volatility and, therefore, credit risk. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully reduce customer credit risk. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2015, we had approximately $6.4 million of bad debt on which we could not collect due to the bankruptcy of certain of our customers. If we are unable to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers or unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness, any resulting increase in nonpayment or nonperformance by them and our inability to re-market or otherwise use our equipment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects or results of operations.. We face intense competition that may cause us to lose market share and could negatively affect our ability to market our services and expand our operations.. The oilfield services business is highly competitive. Some of our competitors have a broader geographic scope, greater financial and other resources, or other cost efficiencies. Additionally, there may be new companies that enter our business, or re-enter our business with significantly reduced indebtedness following emergence from bankruptcy, or our existing and potential customers may develop their own hydraulic fracturing business, or direct source sand, negatively affecting our revenue and potentially resulting in shortfall obligations under some of our supply agreements. Our ability to maintain current revenue and cash flows, and our ability to market our services and expand our operations, could be adversely affected by the activities of our competitors and our customers. If our competitors substantially increase the resources they devote to the development and marketing of competitive services or substantially decrease the prices at which they offer their services, we may be unable to effectively compete. All of these competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our larger competitors provide a broader range of services on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may have a greater ability to continue oilfield service activities during periods of low commodity prices and to absorb the burden of present and future federal, tribal, state, local and other laws and regulations.. 17. Table of Contents. Any inability to compete effectively with larger companies could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our assets require significant amounts of capital for maintenance, upgrades and refurbishment and may require significant capital expenditures for new equipment.. Our hydraulic fracturing fleets and other completion service-related equipment require significant capital investment in maintenance, upgrades and refurbishment to maintain their competitiveness. For example, since January 1, 2011, we have deployed 21 hydraulic fracturing fleets to service customers at a total cost to deploy of approximately $683.5 million. The costs of components and labor have increased in the past and may increase in the future with increases in demand, which will require us to incur additional costs to upgrade any fleets we may acquire in the future. Our fleets and other equipment typically do not generate revenue while they are undergoing maintenance, upgrades or refurbishment. Any maintenance, upgrade or refurbishment project for our assets could increase our indebtedness or reduce cash available for other opportunities. Furthermore, such projects may require proportionally greater capital investments as a percentage of total asset value, which may make such projects difficult to finance on acceptable terms. To the extent we are unable to fund such projects, we may have less equipment available for service or our equipment may not be attractive to potential or current customers. Additionally, competition or advances in technology within our industry may require us to update or replace existing fleets or build or acquire new fleets. Such demands on our capital or reductions in demand for our hydraulic fracturing fleets and the increase in cost of labor necessary for such maintenance and improvement, in each case, could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity position, financial condition, prospects and results of operations and may increase our costs.. We rely on a limited number of third parties for sand, proppant and chemical additives, and delays in deliveries of such materials, increases in the cost of such materials or our contractual obligations to pay for materials that we ultimately do not require could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have established relationships with a limited number of suppliers of our raw materials (such as proppant and chemical additives). Should any of our current suppliers be unable to provide the necessary materials or otherwise fail to deliver the materials in a timely manner and in the quantities required, any resulting delays in the provision of services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, increasing costs of such materials may negatively impact demand for our services or the profitability of our business operations. In the past, our industry faced sporadic proppant shortages associated with hydraulic fracturing operations requiring work stoppages, which are believed to have adversely impacted the operating results of several competitors. We may not be able to mitigate any future shortages of materials, including proppant. Furthermore, to the extent our contracts require us to purchase more materials, including proppant, than we ultimately require, we may be forced to pay for the excess amount under \"take or pay\" contract provisions.. We currently rely on one assembler and a limited number of suppliers for major equipment to both build new fleets and upgrade any fleets we acquire to our custom design, and our reliance on these vendors exposes us to risks including price and timing of delivery.. We currently rely on one assembler and a limited number of suppliers for major equipment to both build our new fleets and upgrade any fleets we may acquire to our custom design. If demand for hydraulic fracturing fleets or the components necessary to build such fleets increases or these vendors face financial distress or bankruptcy, these vendors may not be able to provide the new or upgraded fleets on schedule or at the current price. If this were to occur, we could be required to seek another assembler or other suppliers for major equipment to build or upgrade our fleets, which may adversely affect our revenues or increase our costs.. Interruptions of service on the rail lines by which we receive proppant could adversely affect our results of operations.. We receive a significant portion of the proppant used in our hydraulic fracturing services by rail. Rail operations are subject to various risks that may result in a delay or lack of service, including lack of available capacity, mechanical problems, extreme weather conditions, work stoppages, labor strikes, terrorist attacks and operating hazards. Additionally, if we increase the amount of proppant we require for delivery of our services, we may face difficulty in securing rail transportation for such additional amount of proppant. Any delay or failure in the rail services on which we rely could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Delays or restrictions in obtaining permits by us for our operations or by our customers for their operations could impair our business.. In most states, our operations and the operations of our oil and natural gas producing customers require permits from one or more governmental agencies in order to perform drilling and completion activities, secure water rights, or other regulated activities. Such permits are typically issued by state agencies, but federal and local governmental permits may also be required.. 18. Table of Contents. The requirements for such permits vary depending on the location where such regulated activities will be conducted. As with all governmental permitting processes, there is a degree of uncertainty as to whether a permit will be granted, the time it will take for a permit to be issued, and the conditions that may be imposed in connection with the granting of the permit. In addition, some of our customers' drilling and completion activities may take place on federal land or Native American lands, requiring leases and other approvals from the federal government or Native American tribes to conduct such drilling and completion activities or other regulated activities. Under certain circumstances, federal agencies may cancel proposed leases for federal lands and refuse to grant or delay required approvals. Therefore, our customers' operations in certain areas of the United States may be interrupted or suspended for varying lengths of time, causing a loss of revenue to us and adversely affecting our results of operations in support of those customers.. Federal or state legislative and regulatory initiatives related to induced seismicity could result in operating restrictions or delays in the drilling and completion of oil and natural gas wells that may reduce demand for our services and could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, combined results of operations and combined financial condition.. Our oil and natural gas producing customers dispose of flowback and produced water or certain other oilfield fluids gathered from oil and natural gas producing operations in accordance with permits issued by government authorities overseeing such disposal activities. While these permits are issued pursuant to existing laws and regulations, these legal requirements are subject to change based on concerns of the public or governmental authorities regarding such disposal activities. One such concern relates to recent seismic events near underground disposal wells used for the disposal by injection of flowback and produced water or certain other oilfield fluids resulting from oil and natural gas activities. In 2016, the United States Geological Survey identified six states with the most significant hazards from seismicity events suspected of having been induced by injection of oilfield fluids into underground disposal wells, including Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, New Mexico, and Arkansas. In response to concerns between use of underground disposal wells and the occurrence of seismic events, regulators in some states have imposed, or are considering imposing, additional requirements in the permitting of produced water disposal wells or otherwise to assess any relationship between seismicity and the use of such wells. For example, Oklahoma has issued rules for produced water disposal wells that imposed certain permitting and operating restrictions and reporting requirements on disposal wells in proximity to faults and also, from time to time, has developed and implemented plans directing certain wells where seismic incidents have occurred to restrict or suspend disposal well operations. The Texas Railroad Commission has adopted similar rules. In December 2016, the Oil and Gas Conservation Division of the OCC and the Oklahoma Geological Survey released well completion seismicity guidance, which requires operators to take certain prescriptive actions, including an operator's planned mitigation practices, following certain unusual seismic activity within 1.25 miles of hydraulic fracturing operations. In addition, in February 2017, the OCC's Oil and Gas Conservation Division issued an order limiting future increases in the volume of oil and natural gas produced water injected belowground into the Arbuckle formation in an effort to reduce the number of earthquakes in the state, and imposed further restrictions in the Edmonds area of the state in August 2017.  Another consequence of seismic events may be lawsuits alleging that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. These developments could result in additional regulation and restrictions on the use of injection wells by our customers to dispose of flowback and produced water and certain other oilfield fluids. Increased regulation and attention given to seismicity events suspected of having been induced by injection of oilfield fluids into underground disposal wells also could lead to greater opposition to, and litigation concerning, oil and natural gas activities utilizing injection wells for waste disposal. Any one or more of these developments may result in our customers having to limit disposal well volumes, disposal rates or locations, or require our customers or third party disposal well operators that are used to dispose of customers' produced water to shut down disposal wells, which developments could adversely affect our customers' business and result in a corresponding decrease in the need for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing as well as governmental reviews of such activities may serve to limit future oil and natural gas exploration and production activities and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business.. Currently, hydraulic fracturing is generally exempt from regulation under the SDWA UIC program and is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions or similar agencies.. However, federal agencies have conducted investigations or asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. For example, in December 2016, the EPA released its final report on the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, concluding that \"water cycle\" activities associated with hydraulic fracturing may impact drinking water resources \"under some circumstances.\"  Additionally, the EPA asserted regulatory authority pursuant to the SDWA's UIC program in 2014 over hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel and issued guidance covering such activities. Additionally, the EPA asserted regulatory authority under the SDWA UIC program in 2014 over hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuel and issued permitting guidance covering such activities.  The EPA also published final CAA regulations in 2012 and in June 2016 governing performance standards, including standards for the capture of emissions. 19. Table of Contents. released during oil and natural gas hydraulic fracturing.  Also, in June 2016, the EPA published an effluent limit guideline final rule prohibiting the discharge of produced water from onshore unconventional oil and natural gas extraction facilities to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants and, in May 2014, published an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding Toxic Substances Control Act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. The BLM published a final rule in March 2015 that established new or more stringent standards relating to hydraulic fracturing on federal and Native American lands. However, in June 2016, a Wyoming federal judge struck down this final rule, finding that the BLM lacked authority to promulge the rule, the BLM appealed the decision to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit in July 2016, the appellate court issued a ruling in September 2017 to vacate the Wyoming trial court decision and dismiss the lawsuit challenging the rule in light of the BLM's proposed rulemaking and, in December 2017, the BLM published a final rule rescinding the March 2015 rule.  In January 2018, litigation challenging the BLM's rescission of the 2015 rule was brought in federal court.  From time to time, legislation has been introduced, but not enacted, in Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. In the event that new federal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we or our customers conduct business, we or our customers may incur additional costs or permitting requirements to comply with such federal requirements that may be significant and, in the case of our customers, also could result in added delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, which would in turn reduce the demand for our services.. Moreover, some states and local governments have adopted, and other governmental entities are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well-construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations, including states where we or our customers operate. For example, Texas, Colorado and North Dakota among others have adopted regulations that impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure, disposal, and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. States could also elect to prohibit high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the approach taken by the State of New York. Local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may also restrict drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular.. Furthermore, certain interest groups in Colorado opposed to oil and natural gas development generally, and hydraulic fracturing in particular, have from time to time advanced various options for ballot initiatives that, if approved, would allow revisions to the state constitution in a manner that would make such exploration and production activities in the state more difficult in the future. However, during the November 2016 voting process, one proposed amendment placed on the Colorado state ballot making it more difficult to place an initiative on the state ballot was passed by the voters.  As a result, there are more stringent procedures now in place for placing an initiative on the state ballot.  In the event that ballot initiatives or local or state restrictions or prohibitions are adopted in the future in areas where we or our customers conduct operations that impose more stringent limitations on the production and development of oil and natural gas, we may incur significant costs to comply with such requirements or our customers may experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities.. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition to, and litigation concerning, oil and natural gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Additional legislation or regulation could also lead to operational delays for our customers or increased operating costs in the production of oil and natural gas, including from the developing shale plays, or could make it more difficult for us and our customers to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of any federal, state or local laws or the implementation of regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and natural gas wells and an associated decrease in demand for our services and increased compliance costs and time, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, combined results of operations, and combined financial condition.. Changes in transportation regulations may increase our costs and negatively impact our results of operations.. We are subject to various transportation regulations including as a motor carrier by the DOT and by various federal, state and tribal agencies, whose regulations include certain permit requirements of highway and safety authorities. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers over our trucking operations, generally governing such matters as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, safety, equipment testing, driver requirements and specifications and insurance requirements. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may impact our operations, such as changes in fuel emissions limits, hours of service regulations that govern the amount of time a driver may drive or work in any specific period and requiring onboard electronic logging devices or limits on vehicle weight and size. As the federal government continues to develop and propose regulations relating to fuel quality, engine efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions, we may experience an increase in costs related to truck purchases and maintenance, impairment of equipment productivity, a decrease in the residual value of vehicles, unpredictable fluctuations in fuel prices and an increase in operating expenses. Increased truck traffic may contribute to deteriorating road conditions in some areas where our operations are performed. Our operations, including routing and weight restrictions, could be affected by road construction, road repairs, detours and state and local regulations and ordinances restricting access to certain roads. Proposals to increase federal, state or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels, are also made from time to time, and any such increase would increase our operating costs. Also, state and local. 20. Table of Contents. regulation of permitted routes and times on specific roadways could adversely affect our operations. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any legislative or regulatory changes or municipal ordinances applicable to our logistics operations will be enacted and to what extent any such legislation or regulations could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations.. We are subject to environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.. Our operations and the operations of our customers are subject to numerous federal, tribal, regional, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment including natural resources, health and safety aspects of our operations and waste management, including the transportation and disposal of waste and other materials. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations on our operations and the operations of our customers, including the acquisition of permits or other approvals to conduct regulated activities, the imposition of restrictions on the types, quantities and concentrations of various substances that may be released into the environment or injected in non-productive formations below ground in connection with oil and natural gas drilling and production activities, the incurrence of capital expenditures to mitigate or prevent releases of materials from our equipment, facilities or from customer locations where we are providing services, the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations, and the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection. Any failure on our part or the part of our customers to comply with these laws and regulations could result in prohibitions or restrictions on operations, assessment of sanctions including administrative, civil and criminal penalties, issuance of corrective action orders requiring the performance of investigatory, remedial or curative activities or enjoining performance of some or all of our operations in a particular area, and the occurrence of delays in the permitting or performance of projects.. Our business activities present risks of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities, including costs and liabilities resulting from our handling of oilfield and other wastes, because of air emissions and wastewater discharges related to our operations, and due to historical oilfield industry operations and waste disposal practices. In addition, private parties, including the owners of properties upon which we perform services and facilities where our wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property or environmental natural resource damages. Some environmental laws and regulations may impose strict liability, which means that in some situations we could be exposed to liability as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Remedial costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and costs associated with changes in environmental laws and regulations could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, combined results of operations and combined financial condition.. Laws and regulations protecting the environment generally have become more stringent in recent years and are expected to continue to do so, which could lead to material increases in costs for future environmental compliance and remediation. Changes in existing laws or regulations, or the adoption of new laws or regulations, could delay or curtail exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and natural gas by our customers and could limit our well servicing opportunities. For example, the EPA has designated energy extraction as one of seven national enforcement initiatives for 2017 to 2019, and has indicated that the agency will direct resources towards addressing incidences of noncompliance from natural gas extraction and production activities. We may not be able to recover some or any of our costs of compliance with these laws and regulations from insurance.. Silica-related legislation, health issues and litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation or results of operations.. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to human exposure to crystalline silica. In March 2016, OSHA amended its legal requirements, publishing a final rule that established a more stringent permissible exposure limit for exposure to respirable crystalline silica and provided other provisions to protect employees, such as requirements for exposure assessment, methods for controlling exposure, respiratory protection, medical surveillance, hazard communication, and recordkeeping. This final rule became effective in June 2016 and will require compliance with most applicable requirements by June 2018. Several industry groups had filed suit in the federal Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit to halt implementation of the rule but on December 22, 2017, the court dismissed the challenges to the rule. Historically, our environmental compliance costs with respect to existing crystalline silica requirements have not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations; however, federal and state regulatory authorities, including OSHA, may continue to propose changes in their regulations regarding workplace exposure to crystalline silica, such as permissible exposure limits and required controls and personal protective equipment. We may not be able to comply with any new laws and regulations that are adopted, and any new laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results by requiring us to modify or cease our operations.. 21. Table of Contents. In addition, the inhalation of respirable crystalline silica is associated with the lung disease silicosis. There is recent evidence of an association between crystalline silica exposure or silicosis and lung cancer and a possible association with other diseases, including immune system disorders such as scleroderma. These health risks have been, and may continue to be, a significant issue confronting the hydraulic fracturing industry. Concerns over silicosis and other potential adverse health effects, as well as concerns regarding potential liability from the use of hydraulic fracture sand, may have the effect of discouraging our customers' use of our hydraulic fracture sand. The actual or perceived health risks of handling hydraulic fracture sand could materially and adversely affect hydraulic fracturing service providers, including us, through reduced use of hydraulic fracture sand, the threat of product liability or employee lawsuits, increased scrutiny by federal, state and local regulatory authorities of us and our customers or reduced financing sources available to the hydraulic fracturing industry.. Anti-indemnity provisions enacted by many states may restrict or prohibit a party's indemnification of us.. We typically enter into agreements with our customers governing the provision of our services, which usually include certain indemnification provisions for losses resulting from operations. Such agreements may require each party to indemnify the other against certain claims regardless of the negligence or other fault of the indemnified party; however, many states place limitations on contractual indemnity agreements, particularly agreements that indemnify a party against the consequences of its own negligence. Furthermore, certain states, including Texas, New Mexico and Wyoming, have enacted statutes generally referred to as \"oilfield anti-indemnity acts\" expressly prohibiting certain indemnity agreements contained in or related to oilfield services agreements. Such anti-indemnity acts may restrict or void a party's indemnification of us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations.. Oil and natural gas companies' operations using hydraulic fracturing are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on the ability to obtain water for exploration and production activities and the disposal of flowback and produced water may impact their operations and have a corresponding adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Water is an essential component of shale oil and natural gas production during both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Our oil and natural gas producing customers' access to water to be used in these processes may be adversely affected due to reasons such as periods of extended drought, privatization, third party competition for water in localized areas or the implementation of local or state governmental programs to monitor or restrict the beneficial use of water subject to their jurisdiction for hydraulic fracturing to assure adequate local water supplies. The occurrence of these or similar developments may result in limitations being placed on allocations of water due to needs by third party businesses with more senior contractual or permitting rights to the water. Our customers' inability to locate or contractually acquire and sustain the receipt of sufficient amounts of water could adversely impact their exploration and production operations and have a corresponding adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Moreover, the imposition of new environmental regulations and other regulatory initiatives could include increased restrictions on our producing customers' ability to dispose of flowback and produced water generated in hydraulic fracturing or other fluids resulting from exploration and production activities. Applicable laws, including the CWA impose restrictions and strict controls regarding the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States and require that permits or other approvals be obtained to discharge pollutants to such waters. In May 2015, the EPA and the Corps released a final rule outlining their position on the federal jurisdictional reach over waters of the United States, including wetlands, but legal challenges to this rule followed, and the rule was stayed nationwide by the U.S. Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals in October 2015, pending resolution of the court challenges. In January 2017, the United States Supreme Court accepted review of the rule to determine whether jurisdiction rests with the federal district or appellate courts and, in a decision issued on January 22, 2018, held that legal challenges of the rule must be heard at the district rather than appellate court level. The Sixth Circuit lifted its stay of the 2015 rule in February 2018. Additionally, following issuance of a presidential executive order to review the rule, the EPA and the Corps published a proposed rulemaking in July 2017 to repeal the 2015 rule. The EPA and the Corps also announced their intent to issue a new rule defining the CWA's jurisdiction. On February 6, 2018, the EPA and the Corps published a final rule specifying that the contested 2015 rule would not take effect until February 6, 2020. As a result, future implementation of the 2015 rule is uncertain at this time. To the extent this rule or a revised rule expands the scope of the CWA's jurisdiction in areas where we or our customers operate, it could impose additional permitting obligations on us and our customers.. Additionally, regulations implemented under the CWA and similar state laws prohibit the discharge of produced water and sand, drilling fluids, drill cuttings and certain other substances related to the natural gas and oil industry into coastal waters. In June 2016, the EPA published final regulations produced water discharges from hydraulic fracturing and certain other natural gas operations to publicly-owned wastewater treatment plants. The CWA and analogous state laws provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for any unauthorized discharges of pollutants and unauthorized discharges of reportable quantities of oil and hazardous substances. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells and any inability to secure transportation and access to disposal wells with sufficient capacity to accept all of our flowback and. 22. Table of Contents. produced water on economic terms may increase our customers' operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of our customers' operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted.. Our current and future indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition.. As of March 23, 2018, we have no borrowings outstanding under our ABL Credit Facility and $113.5 million outstanding under our Term Loan Facility. In addition, we may be able to borrow up to $250 million under our ABL Credit Facility, subject to certain borrowing base limitations. Please see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Debt Agreements.\". Moreover, subject to the limits contained in our ABL Credit Facility and Term Loan Credit Facility (collectively, the \"Credit Facilities\"), we may incur substantial additional debt from time to time. Any borrowings we may incur in the future would have several important consequences for our future operations, including that:. • covenants contained in the documents governing such indebtedness may require us to meet or maintain certain financial tests, which may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our industry, such as being able to take advantage of acquisition opportunities when they arise;. • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes may be limited;. • we may be competitively disadvantaged to our competitors that are less leveraged or have greater access to capital resources; and. • we may be more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions.. If we incur indebtedness in the future, we may have significant principal payments due at specified future dates under the documents governing such indebtedness. Our ability to meet such principal obligations will be dependent upon future performance, which in turn will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay any incurred indebtedness. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, we may be required to sell assets, to refinance all or a portion of such indebtedness or to obtain additional financing.. Our Credit Facilities subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants. These restrictions may limit our operational or financial flexibility and could subject us to potential defaults under our Credit Facilities.. Our Credit Facilities subject us to restrictive covenants, including, but not limited to, restrictions on incurring additional debt and certain distributions. Our ability to comply with these financial condition tests can be affected by events beyond our control and we may not be able to do so.. The Credit Facilities are not subject to financial covenants unless our liquidity, as defined in the agreements governing the Credit Facilities, drops below a specified level, at which time we will be required to maintain certain fixed charge coverage ratios. Please see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Debt Agreement.\". If our liquidity falls below the prescribed level and we are unable to remain in compliance with the financial covenants of our Credit Facilities, then amounts outstanding thereunder may be accelerated and become due immediately. Any such acceleration could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Increases in interest rates could adversely impact the price of our shares, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes.. Interest rates on future borrowings, credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. Changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our shares, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on the price of our shares, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes.. 23. Table of Contents. Fuel conservation measures could reduce demand for oil and natural gas which would in turn reduce the demand for our services.. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements and increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. The impact of the changing demand for oil and natural gas may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, the increased competitiveness of alternative energy sources (such as wind, solar geothermal, tidal, and biofuels) could reduce demand for hydrocarbons and therefore for our services, which would lead to a reduction in our revenues.. Unsatisfactory safety performance may negatively affect our customer relationships and, to the extent we fail to retain existing customers or attract new customers, adversely impact our revenues.. Our ability to retain existing customers and attract new business is dependent on many factors, including our ability to demonstrate that we can reliably and safely operate our business in a manner that is consistent with applicable laws, rules and permits, which legal requirements are subject to change. Existing and potential customers consider the safety record of their third-party service providers to be of high importance in their decision to engage such providers. If one or more accidents were to occur at one of our operating sites, the affected customer may seek to terminate or cancel its use of our equipment or services and may be less likely to continue to use our services, which could cause us to lose substantial revenues. Furthermore, our ability to attract new customers may be impaired if they elect not to engage us because they view our safety record as unacceptable. In addition, it is possible that we will experience multiple or particularly severe accidents in the future, causing our safety record to deteriorate. This may be more likely as we continue to grow, if we experience high employee turnover or labor shortage, or hire inexperienced personnel to bolster our staffing needs.. Climate change legislation and regulations restricting or regulating emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating and capital costs and reduced demand for our hydraulic fracturing services.. Climate change continues to attract considerable public, governmental and scientific attention. As a result, numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit emissions of GHGs. These efforts have included consideration of cap-and-trade programs, carbon taxes, GHG reporting and tracking programs and regulations that directly limit GHG emissions from certain sources.. At the federal level, no comprehensive climate change legislation has been implemented to date. The EPA has, however, adopted rules under authority of the federal Clean Air Act that, among other things, establish Potential for Significant Deterioration (\"PSD\") construction and Title V operating permit reviews for GHG emissions from certain large stationary sources that are also potential major sources of certain principal, or criteria, pollutant emissions, which reviews could require securing PSD permits at covered facilities emitting GHGs and meeting \"best available control technology\" standards for those GHG emissions. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring and annual reporting of GHG emissions from certain petroleum and natural gas system sources in the U.S., including, among others, onshore and offshore production facilities, which include certain of our producing customers' operations. In October 2015, the EPA amended and expanded the GHG reporting requirements to all segments of the oil and natural gas industry, including gathering and boosting facilities as well as completions and workovers from hydraulically fractured oil wells, and in January 2016, the EPA proposed additional revisions to leak detection methodology to align the reporting rules with the new source performance standards.. Federal agencies also have begun directly regulating emissions of methane, a GHG, from oil and natural gas operations. In June 2016, the EPA published NSPS Subpart OOOOa, which requires certain new, modified or reconstructed equipment and processes in the oil and natural gas source category to reduce these methane gas and VOC emissions. These Subpart OOOOa standards will expand previously issued NSPS Subpart OOOO published by the EPA in 2012 by using certain equipment-specific emissions control practices. However, in June 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule to stay certain portions of the June 2016 standards for two years and re-evaluate the entirety of the 2016 standards but the EPA has not yet published a final rule and, as a result, the June 2016 rule remains in effect but future implementation of the 2016 standards is uncertain at this time. Furthermore, in November 2016, the BLM published a final rule that established, among other things, requirements to reduce methane emissions arising from venting, flaring and leaks from oil and natural gas production activities on onshore federal and Native American lands. However, in December 2017, the BLM published a final rule to temporarily suspend or delay certain requirements contained in the November 2016 final rule until January 17, 2019, including those requirements relating to the venting, flaring and leakage from oil and natural gas production activities. The suspension of the November 2016 final rule is being challenged in court.  Given the long-term trend towards increasing regulation, future federal GHG regulations of the oil and natural gas industry remain a possibility, and should the EPA's June 2016 or the BLM's November 2016 rules remain in effect, or any other new methane emission standards be imposed on the oil and natural gas sector, such requirements could result in increased costs to our or our customers' operations as well as result in delays or curtailment in such operations, which costs, delays or curtailment could adversely affect our business. Additionally, in December 2015, the United States. 24. Table of Contents. joined the international community at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France that prepared an agreement requiring member countries to review and \"represent a progression\" in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set GHG emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. This \"Paris Agreement\" was signed by the United States in April 2016 and entered in force in November 2016; however, the GHG emission reductions called for by the Paris Agreement are not binding. In August 2017, the U.S. State Department informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement provides for a four-year exit process beginning when it took effect in November 2016, which would result in an effective exit date of November 2020. The United States' adherence to the exit process and/or the terms on which the United States may reenter the Paris Agreement or a separately negotiated agreement are unclear at this time.. The adoption and implementation of any international, federal or state legislation or regulations that require reporting of GHGs or otherwise restrict emissions of GHGs could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, demand for our services, results of operations, and cash flows. Recently, activists concerned about the potential effects of climate change have directed their attention at sources of funding for fossil-fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in oil and natural gas activities. Ultimately, this could make it more difficult to secure funding for exploration and production or midstream activities. Notwithstanding potential risks related to climate change, the International Energy Agency estimates that global energy demand will continue to rise and will not peak until after 2040 and that oil and natural gas will continue to represent a substantial percentage of global energy use over that time. Finally, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHG in the atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climate events that could have an adverse effect on our operations and the operations of our customers.. The Endangered Species Act and Migratory Bird Treaty Act and other restrictions intended to protect certain species of wildlife govern our and our oil and natural gas producing customers' operations and additional restrictions may be imposed in the future, which constraints could have an adverse impact on our ability to expand some of our existing operations or limit our customers' ability to develop new oil and natural gas wells.. Oil and natural gas operations in our operating areas can be adversely affected by seasonal or permanent restrictions on drilling activities designed to protect various wildlife, which may limit our ability to operate in protected areas. Permanent restrictions imposed to protect endangered species could prohibit drilling in certain areas or require the implementation of expensive mitigation measures.. For example, the ESA restricts activities that may affect endangered or threatened species or their habitats. Similar protections are offered to migratory birds under the MBTA. To the extent species that are listed under the ESA or similar state laws, or are protected under the MBTA, live in the areas where we or our oil and natural gas producing customers' operate, our and our customers' abilities to conduct or expand operations and construct facilities could be limited or be forced to incur material additional costs. Moreover, our customer's drilling activities may be delayed, restricted or precluded in protected habitat areas or during certain seasons, such as breeding and nesting seasons. Some of our operations and the operations of our customers are located in areas that are designated as habitats for protected species.. Moreover, as a result of one or more settlements approved by the federal government, the FWS must make determinations on the listing of numerous species as endangered or threatened under the ESA pursuant to specific timelines. The designation of previously unidentified endangered or threatened species could indirectly cause us to incur additional costs, cause our or our oil and natural gas producing customers' operations to become subject to operating restrictions or bans, and limit future development activity in affected areas. The FWS and similar state agencies may designate critical or suitable habitat areas that they believe are necessary for the survival of threatened or endangered species. Such a designation could materially restrict use of or access to federal, state and private lands.. We may have difficulty managing growth of our business, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. As a recently formed company, growth of our business could place a significant strain on our financial, technical, operational and management resources. As we expand the scope of our activities and our geographic coverage through organic growth, there will be additional demands on our financial, technical, operational and management resources. The failure to continue to upgrade our technical, administrative, operating and financial control systems or the occurrences of unexpected expansion difficulties, including the failure to recruit and retain experienced managers, engineers and other professionals in the oilfield services industry, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to successfully or timely execute our business plan.. 25. Table of Contents. We rely on a few key employees whose absence or loss could adversely affect our business.. Many key responsibilities within our business have been assigned to a small number of employees. The loss of their services could adversely affect our business. In particular, the loss of the services of one or more members of our executive team, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and president, could disrupt our operations. We do not have any written employment agreement with our executives at this time. Further, we do not maintain \"key person\" life insurance policies on any of our employees. As a result, we are not insured against any losses resulting from the death of our key employees.. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions.. We have completed and may, in the future, pursue asset acquisitions or acquisitions of businesses. The process of upgrading acquired assets to our specifications and integrating acquired assets or businesses may involve unforeseen costs and delays or other operational, technical and financial difficulties and may require a significant amount time and resources. Our failure to incorporate acquired assets or businesses into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Such events could also mean an acquisition that we expected to be accretive is not accretive and, in extreme cases, the asset is idle.. Our industry overall has experienced a high rate of employee turnover. Any difficulty we experience replacing or adding personnel could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.. We are dependent upon the available labor pool of skilled employees and may not be able to find enough skilled labor to meet our needs, which could have a negative effect on our growth. We are also subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions. Our services require skilled workers who can perform physically demanding work. As a result of our industry volatility, including the recent and pronounced decline in drilling activity, as well as the demanding nature of the work, many workers have left the hydraulic fracturing industry to pursue employment in different fields. Though our historical turnover rates have been significantly lower than those of our competitors, if we are unable to retain or meet growing demand for skilled technical personnel, our operating results and our ability to execute our growth strategies may be adversely affected.. Technology advancements in well service technologies, including those involving hydraulic fracturing, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The hydraulic fracturing industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As competitors and others use or develop new technologies or technologies comparable to ours in the future, we may lose market share or be placed at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we may face competitive pressure to implement or acquire certain new technologies at a substantial cost. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we do, which may allow them to gain technological advantages or implement new technologies before we can. Additionally, we may be unable to implement new technologies or services at all, on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. New technology could also make it easier for our customers to vertically integrate their operations, thereby reducing or eliminating the need for our services. Limits on our ability to effectively use or implement new technologies may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to claims for personal injury and property damage, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, prospects and results of operations.. Our services are subject to inherent risks that can cause personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment or the suspension of our operations. Litigation arising from operations where our services are provided, may cause us to be named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting potentially large claims including claims for exemplary damages. We maintain what we believe is customary and reasonable insurance to protect our business against these potential losses, but such insurance may not be adequate to cover our liabilities, and we are not fully insured against all risks.. In addition, our customers assume responsibility for, including control and removal of, all other pollution or contamination which may occur during operations, including that which may result from seepage or any other uncontrolled flow of drilling and completion fluids. We may have liability in such cases if we are negligent or commit willful acts. Our customers generally agree to indemnify us against claims arising from their employees' personal injury or death to the extent that, in the case of our hydraulic fracturing operations, their employees are injured or their properties are damaged by such operations, unless resulting from our gross negligence or willful misconduct. Our customers also generally agree to indemnify us for loss or destruction of customer-owned property or equipment. In turn, we agree to indemnify our customers for loss or. 26. Table of Contents. destruction of property or equipment we own and for liabilities arising from personal injury to or death of any of our employees, unless resulting from gross negligence or willful misconduct of the customer. However, we might not succeed in enforcing such contractual liability allocation or might incur an unforeseen liability falling outside the scope of such allocation. As a result, we may incur substantial losses which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation.. Seasonal weather conditions and natural disasters could severely disrupt normal operations and harm our business.. Our operations are located in different regions of the United States. Some of these areas, including the DJ Basin, Powder River Basin and Williston Basin, are adversely affected by seasonal weather conditions, primarily in the winter and spring. During periods of heavy snow, ice or rain, we may be unable to move our equipment between locations, thereby reducing our ability to provide services and generate revenues. The exploration activities of our customers may also be affected during such periods of adverse weather conditions. Additionally, extended drought conditions in our operating regions could impact our ability or our customers' ability to source sufficient water or increase the cost for such water. As a result, a natural disaster or inclement weather conditions could severely disrupt the normal operation of our business and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. If we are unable to fully protect our intellectual property rights, we may suffer a loss in our competitive advantage or market share.. We do not have patents or patent applications relating to many of our key processes and technology. If we are not able to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets, or if our competitors are able to replicate our technology or services, our competitive advantage would be diminished. We also cannot assure you that any patents we may obtain in the future would provide us with any significant commercial benefit or would allow us to prevent our competitors from employing comparable technologies or processes.. We may be adversely affected by disputes regarding intellectual property rights of third parties.. Third parties from time to time may initiate litigation against us by asserting that the conduct of our business infringes, misappropriates or otherwise violates intellectual property rights. We may not prevail in any such legal proceedings related to such claims, and our products and services may be found to infringe, impair, misappropriate, dilute or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others. If we are sued for infringement and lose, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or be enjoined from using or selling the infringing products or technology. Any legal proceeding concerning intellectual property could be protracted and costly regardless of the merits of any claim and is inherently unpredictable and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, regardless of its outcome. For instance, SandBox Logistics, LLC and Oren Technologies, LLC (collectively, \"SandBox\") have filed a suit against us, alleging, amongst other things, that we have infringed upon certain U.S. patents. Please see \"Item 3. Legal Proceedings.\". If we were to discover that our technologies or products infringe valid intellectual property rights of third parties, we may need to obtain licenses from these parties or substantially re-engineer our products in order to avoid infringement. We may not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or be able to re-engineer our products successfully. If our inability to obtain required licenses for our technologies or products prevents us from selling our products, that could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, we currently license certain third party intellectual property in connection with our business, and the loss of any such license could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to interruptions or failures in our information technology systems.. We rely on sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure to support our business, including process control technology. Any of these systems may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, usage errors by employees, computer viruses, cyber-attacks or other security breaches, or similar events. The failure of any of our information technology systems may cause disruptions in our operations, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability.. We are subject to cyber security risks. A cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss.. The oil and natural gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain processing activities. For example, we depend on digital technologies to perform many of our services and to process and record financial and operating data. At the same time, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks, have increased. The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of cyber security threats. Our technologies,. 27. Table of Contents. systems and networks, and those of our vendors, suppliers and other business partners, may become the target of cyberattacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period. Our systems and insurance coverage for protecting against cyber security risks may not be sufficient. As cyber incidents continue to evolve, we will likely be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents. Our insurance coverage for cyberattacks may not be sufficient to cover all the losses we may experience as a result of such cyberattacks.. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business.. The occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks in the United States or other countries, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflicts involving the United States or other countries, including continued hostilities in the Middle East, may adversely affect the United States and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations. If any of these events occur, the resulting political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for oil and natural gas, potentially putting downward pressure on demand for our services and causing a reduction in our revenues. Oil and natural gas related facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our customers' operations is destroyed or damaged. Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all.. We engage in transactions with related parties and such transactions present possible conflicts of interest that could have an adverse effect on us.. We have entered into a significant number of transactions with related parties. The details of certain of these transactions are set forth in \"Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions.\" Related party transactions create the possibility of conflicts of interest with regard to our management, including that:. • we may enter into contracts between us, on the one hand, and related parties, on the other, that are not the result of arm's-length transactions;. • our executive officers and directors that hold positions of responsibility with related parties may be aware of certain business opportunities that are appropriate for presentation to us as well as to such other related parties and may present such business opportunities to such other parties; and. • our executive officers and directors that hold positions of responsibility with related parties may have significant duties with, and spend significant time serving, other entities and may have conflicts of interest in allocating time.. Such conflicts could cause an individual in our management to seek to advance his or her economic interests or the economic interests of certain related parties above ours. Further, the appearance of conflicts of interest created by related party transactions could impair the confidence of our investors. Our audit committee reviews these transactions. Notwithstanding this, it is possible that a conflict of interest could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.. Our historical financial statements may not be indicative of future performance.. Due to the sharp decline in demand for well services beginning in late 2014, our acquisition of certain assets in June 2016 and the recent recovery of activity in our well services industry, comparisons of our current and future operating results with prior periods are difficult. As a result, our limited historical financial performance as the owner of the acquired assets may make it difficult for stockholders to evaluate our business and results of operations to date and to assess our future prospects and viability. Furthermore, as a result of a significant increase in our capacity, our movement into new basins and our future implementation of new business initiatives and strategies following the acquisition of assets, our historical results of operations are not necessarily indicative of our ongoing operations and the operating results to be expected in the future.. We may record losses or impairment charges related to idle assets or assets that we sell.. Prolonged periods of low utilization, changes in technology or the sale of assets below their carrying value may cause us to experience losses. These events could result in the recognition of impairment charges that negatively impact our financial results. Significant impairment charges as a result of a decline in market conditions or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.. 28. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock. Liberty Inc. is a holding company. Liberty Inc.'s only material asset is its equity interest in Liberty LLC, and Liberty Inc. is  accordingly dependent upon distributions from Liberty LLC to pay taxes, make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreements and cover its corporate and other overhead expenses.. Liberty Inc. is a holding company and will have no material assets other than its equity interest in Liberty LLC. Please see \"Item 1. Business - Initial Public Offering and Reorganization Transaction.\" Liberty Inc. will have no independent means of generating revenue. To the extent Liberty LLC has available cash, Liberty Inc. intends to cause Liberty LLC to make (i) generally pro rata distributions to its unit holders, including Liberty Inc., in an amount sufficient to allow Liberty Inc. to pay its taxes and to allow it to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreements and (ii) non-pro rata payments to Liberty Inc. to reimburse it for its corporate and other overhead expenses. To the extent that Liberty Inc. needs funds and Liberty LLC or its subsidiaries are restricted from making such distributions or payments under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of any future financing arrangements, or are otherwise unable to provide such funds, Liberty Inc.'s liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. Moreover, because Liberty Inc. will have no independent means of generating revenue, Liberty Inc.'s ability to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreements is dependent on the ability of Liberty LLC to make distributions to Liberty Inc. in an amount sufficient to cover its obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreements. This ability, in turn, may depend on the ability of Liberty LLC's subsidiaries to make distributions to it. The ability of Liberty LLC, its subsidiaries and other entities in which it directly or indirectly holds an equity interest to make such distributions will be subject to, among other things, (i) the applicable provisions of Delaware law (or other applicable jurisdiction) that may limit the amount of funds available for distribution and (ii) restrictions in relevant debt instruments issued by Liberty LLC or its subsidiaries and other entities in which it directly or indirectly holds an equity interest. To the extent that Liberty Inc. is unable to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreements for any reason, such payments will be deferred and will accrue interest until paid.. The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner.. As a public company, we will need to comply with new laws, regulations and requirements, certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, related regulations of the SEC and the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (the \"NYSE\"), with which we are not required to comply as a private company. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements will occupy a significant amount of time of our board of directors and management and will significantly increase our costs and expenses. We will need to:. • institute a more comprehensive compliance function;. • comply with rules promulgated by the NYSE;. • continue to prepare and distribute periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws;. • establish new internal policies, such as those relating to insider trading; and. • involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities.. Furthermore, we are required to have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls, in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2018. Our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed. Compliance with these requirements may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner.. In addition, we expect that being a public company subject to these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs.. 29. Table of Contents. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our Class A Common Stock.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, safeguard our assets, prevent fraud and operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, safeguard our assets, or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. We cannot be certain that our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls will be successful, that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that we will be able to comply with our obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls, or difficulties encountered in implementing or improving our existing internal controls, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. An ineffective system of internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our Class A Common Stock.. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and may identify additional material weaknesses in the future or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, which may result in material misstatements of our financial statements or cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations.. Prior to the IPO, we were a private company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. We have not completed an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent registered public accounting firm has not conducted an audit of our internal control over financial reporting. We have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, which was also identified and communicated to us by our independent registered public accounting firm. A \"material weakness\" is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal controls such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement in financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. The material weakness identified relates to the lack of implementation and maintenance of effective segregation of duties, including controls over journal entries, that would provide a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement would be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. In early 2018, we began taking steps to implement controls to remediate the material weakness, including the following:. • utilizing information technology personnel to review system authorization among users to ensure proper segregation of duties; and. • engagement of a third party to assist in our documentation, implementation and testing of internal controls related to segregation of duties, including controls over journal entries.. We can give no assurance that these actions will remediate this deficiency in internal control or that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Our failure to design, implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of our financial statements and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Please see \"Risk Factors - The requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and the requirements of the Sarbanes- Oxley Act, may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner.\". An active, liquid and orderly trading market for our Class A Common Stock may not be maintained, and our stock price may be volatile.. Prior to January 2018, our Class A Common Stock was not traded on any market. An active, liquid and orderly trading market for our Class A Common Stock may not be maintained. Active, liquid and orderly trading markets usually result in less price volatility and more efficiency in carrying out investors' purchase and sale orders. The market price of our Class A Common Stock could vary significantly as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. In the event of a drop in the market price of our Class A Common Stock, you could lose a substantial part or all of your investment in our Class A Common Stock.. The following factors could affect our stock price:. • quarterly variations in our financial and operating results;. • the public reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;. • strategic actions by our competitors;. 30. Table of Contents. • changes in revenue or earnings estimates, or changes in recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage, by equity research analysts;. • speculation in the press or investment community;. • the failure of specific research analysts to cover our Class A Common Stock;. • sales of our Class A Common Stock by us, the selling shareholder or other stockholders, or the perception that such sales may occur;. • changes in accounting principles, policies, guidance, interpretations or standards;. • additions or departures of key management personnel;. • actions by our stockholders;. • general market conditions, including fluctuations in commodity prices;. • domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; and. • the realization of any risks described under this \"Risk Factors\" section.. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our Class A Common Stock. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company's securities. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management's attention and resources and harm our business, operating results and financial condition.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, qualify for and rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. As a result. our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that cannot rely on such exemptions and are subject to such requirements.. Riverstone and the Legacy Owners party to the stockholders' agreement (collectively, the \"Principal Stockholders\") described in \"Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related-Party Transactions and Director Independence - Stockholders' Agreement\" control a majority of the combined voting power of our Common Stock. As a result, we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE corporate governance standards. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, including the requirement (1) that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) that we have a nominating and corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities, and (3) that we have a compensation committee composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities. We intend to rely on some or all of these exemptions. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors or a nominating or governance committee, and our compensation committee does not consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE.. The Legacy Owners collectively hold a substantial majority of the voting power of our common stock. The Legacy Owners hold approximately 87.6% of our voting stock. As a result, the Legacy Owners are able to control matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, changes to our organizational documents and significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership makes it unlikely that any other holder or group of holders of our Class A Common Stock will be able to affect the way we are managed or the direction of our business. The interests of the Legacy Owners with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us, such as future acquisitions, financings and other corporate opportunities and attempts to acquire us, may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders.. For example, the Legacy Owners may have different tax positions from us, especially in light of the Tax Receivable Agreements, that could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to support the disposition of assets, the incurrence or refinancing of new or existing indebtedness, or the termination of the Tax Receivable Agreements and acceleration of our obligations thereunder. In addition, the determination of future tax reporting positions, the structuring of future transactions and the handling of any challenge by any taxing authority to our tax reporting positions may take into consideration the Legacy Owners tax position or other considerations which may differ from the considerations of us or our other stockholders. Please read \"Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions - Tax Receivable Agreements.\". 31. Table of Contents. Given this concentrated ownership, the Legacy Owners would have to approve any potential acquisition of us. Furthermore, in connection with the IPO, we entered into a stockholders' agreement with Riverstone, affiliates of Laurel Road, LLC and Spruce Road, LLC and certain investors in Spruce Road, LLC (collectively, the \"Principal Stockholders\"). The stockholders' agreement provides Riverstone with the right to designate a certain number of nominees to our board of directors so long as Riverstone and its affiliates collectively beneficially own at least 10% of the outstanding shares of our Class A Common Stock. In addition, the stockholders' agreement provides Riverstone the right to approve certain material transactions so long as Riverstone and its affiliates own at least 20% of the outstanding shares of our Class A Common Stock. See \"Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions - Stockholders' Agreement.\" The existence of significant stockholders may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers, delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in the best interests of our company. Moreover, the Legacy Owners concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our Class A Common Stock to the extent investors perceive a disadvantage in owning stock of a company with significant stockholders.. Certain of our executive officers and directors have significant duties with, and spend significant time serving, entities that may compete with us in seeking acquisitions and business opportunities and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating time or pursuing business opportunities.. Certain of our executive officers and directors, who are responsible for managing the direction of our operations, hold positions of responsibility with other entities (including affiliated entities) that are in the oil and natural gas industry. For example, Christopher Wright, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is the Executive Chairman of Liberty Resources LLC (\"Liberty Resources\"), an E&P company operating primarily in the Williston Basin, a position which may require a significant portion of his time. These executive officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as to the other entities with which they are or may become affiliated. Due to these existing and potential future affiliations, they may present potential business opportunities to other entities prior to presenting them to us, which could cause additional conflicts of interest. They may also decide that certain opportunities are more appropriate for other entities with which they are affiliated, and as a result, they may elect not to present those opportunities to us. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor. For additional discussion of our management's business affiliations and the potential conflicts of interest of which our stockholders should be aware, see \"Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions.\". Riverstone and its respective affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us, and the corporate opportunity provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation could enable Riverstone to benefit from corporate opportunities that might otherwise be available to us.. Our governing documents provide that Riverstone and its respective affiliates (including portfolio investments of Riverstone its affiliates) are not restricted from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In particular, subject to the limitations of applicable law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation will, among other things:. • permits Riverstone and its respective affiliates to conduct business that competes with us and to make investments in any kind of property in which we may make investments; and. • provides that if Riverstone or its respective affiliates, or any employee, partner, member, manager, officer or director of Riverstone or its respective affiliates who is also one of our directors or officers, becomes aware of a potential business opportunity, transaction or other matter, they have no duty to communicate or offer that opportunity to us.. Riverstone or its respective affiliates may become aware, from time to time, of certain business opportunities (such as acquisition opportunities) and may direct such opportunities to other businesses in which they have invested, in which case we may not become aware of or otherwise have the ability to pursue such opportunity. Furthermore, such businesses may choose to compete with us for these opportunities, possibly causing these opportunities to not be available to us or causing them to be more expensive for us to pursue. In addition, Riverstone and its respective affiliates may dispose of oil and natural gas properties or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase any of those assets. As a result, our renouncing our interest and expectancy in any business opportunity that may be from time to time presented to Riverstone and its respective affiliates could adversely impact our business or prospects if attractive business opportunities are procured by such parties for their own benefit rather than for ours.. A significant reduction by Riverstone of its ownership interests in us could adversely affect us.. We believe that Riverstone's ownership interests in us provides it with an economic incentive to assist us to be successful. Upon the expiration or earlier waiver of the lock-up restrictions on transfers or sales of our securities following the completion. 32. Table of Contents. of the IPO, Riverstone will not be subject to any obligation to maintain its ownership interest in us and may elect at any time thereafter to sell all or a substantial portion of or otherwise reduce its ownership interest in us. If Riverstone sells all or a substantial portion of its ownership interest in us, it may have less incentive to assist in our success and its affiliate(s) that are expected to serve as members of our board of directors may resign. Such actions could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategies which could adversely affect our cash flows or results of operations.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock and could deprive our investors of the opportunity to receive a premium for their shares.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval in one or more series, designate the number of shares constituting any series, and fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price or prices and liquidation preferences of such series. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include:. • after we cease to be a controlled company, dividing our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving staggered three-year terms;. • after we cease to be a controlled company, and subject to the terms of our stockholders' agreement, providing that all vacancies, including newly created directorships, may, except as otherwise required by law or, if applicable, the rights of holders of a series of preferred stock, only be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even if less than a quorum (prior to such time, vacancies may also be filled by stockholders holding a majority of the outstanding shares);. • after we cease to be a controlled company, permitting any action by stockholders to be taken only at an annual meeting or special meeting rather than by a written consent of the stockholders, subject to the rights of any series of preferred stock with respect to such rights;. • after we cease to be a controlled company, permitting special meetings of our stockholders to be called only by our Chief Executive Officer, the chairman of our board of directors and our board of directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the total number of authorized directors whether or not there exist any vacancies in previously authorized directorships (prior to such time, a special meeting may also be called by our Corporate Secretary at the request of Riverstone);. • after we cease to be a controlled company, and subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any series of our preferred stock and the terms of our stockholders' agreement, requiring the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% in voting power of all then outstanding common stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, to remove any or all of the directors from office at any time, and directors will be removable only for \"cause\";. • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors;. • establishing advance notice provisions for stockholder proposals and nominations for elections to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders; and. • providing that the board of directors is expressly authorized to adopt, or to alter or repeal our bylaws.. In addition, certain change of control events have the effect of accelerating the payments due under the Tax Receivable Agreements, which could be substantial and accordingly serve as a disincentive to a potential acquirer of our company. Please see \" - In certain cases, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreements may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits, if any, Liberty Inc. realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreements.\". 33. Table of Contents. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation will provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us or any director or officer or other employee of ours arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\"), our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us or any director or officer or other employee of ours that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in each such case subject to such Court of Chancery having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants therein. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock will be deemed to have notice of, and consented to, the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation described in the preceding sentence. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. If a substantial number of shares of Class A Common Stock becomes available for sale and are sold in a short period of time, the market price of our common stock could decline and our stockholders may be diluted.. If our Legacy Owners sell substantial amounts of our Class A Common Stock in the public market, the market price of our Class A Common Stock could decrease. The perception in the public market that our Legacy Owners might sell shares of our Class A Common Stock could also create a perceived overhang and depress our market price. We have 69,975,174 shares of Class A Common Stock outstanding of which 55,334,419 shares are held by our Legacy Owners. In addition, our Legacy Owners hold Liberty LLC Units and shares of our Class B Common Stock which are exchangeable for an additional 48,207,372 shares of Class A Common Stock. Prior to the IPO, we and our Legacy Owners agreed with the underwriters to a \"lock-up\" period, meaning that such parties may not, subject to certain exceptions, sell any of their existing shares of our common stock without the prior written consent of representatives of the underwriters for at least 180 days after January 11, 2018. In addition, all of our Legacy Owners will be subject to the holding period requirement of Rule 144 under the Securities Act (\"Rule 144\"). When the lock-up agreements expire, these shares will become eligible for sale, in some cases subject to the requirements of Rule 144.. In addition, our Legacy Owners, will have substantial demand and incidental registration rights, as described in \"Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related-Party Transactions and Director Independence-Stockholders' Agreement.\" The market price for shares of our common stock may drop when the restrictions on resale by our Legacy Owners lapse.. Any sale of additional common stock by our Legacy Owners in the public market may result in additional dilution to our stockholders.. We do not currently plan to pay regular cash dividends on our Class A Common Stock, and our credit agreements will place certain restrictions on our ability to do so. Consequently, your primary opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our Class A Common Stock appreciates.. We do not currently plan to declare regular cash dividends on shares of our Class A Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Additionally, our Credit Facilities place certain restrictions on our ability to pay cash dividends. Consequently, your primary opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in us will be if you sell your Class A Common Stock at a price greater than you paid for it. There is no guarantee that the price of our Class A Common Stock that will prevail in the market will ever exceed the price that you paid to purchase such Class A Common Stock.. Future sales of our Class A Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could reduce our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute your ownership in us.. We may sell additional shares of Class A Common Stock in subsequent public offerings. We may also issue additional shares of Class A Common Stock or convertible securities. We presently have 69,975,174 shares of Class A Common Stock issued and outstanding. The Legacy Owners own 55,334,419 shares of our Class A Common Stock and 48,207,372 shares of our Class B Common Stock, or approximately 87.6% of our total outstanding shares of common stock. The Liberty Unit. 34. Table of Contents. Holders are party to a registration rights agreement, which requires us to effect the registration of any shares of Class A Common Stock that they receive in exchange for their Liberty LLC Units in certain circumstances no earlier than the expiration of the lock-up period contained in the underwriting agreement entered into in connection with the IPO.. We have 12,908,734 shares of our Class A Common Stock issued or reserved for issuance under our long term incentive plan. Subject to the satisfaction of vesting conditions, the expiration of lock-up agreements and the requirements of Rule 144, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 may be made available for resale immediately in the public market without restriction.. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Class A Common Stock or securities convertible into Class A Common Stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our Class A Common Stock will have on the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our Class A Common Stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices of our Class A Common Stock.. The underwriters of the IPO may waive or release parties to the lock-up agreements entered into in connection with the IPO, which could adversely affect the price of our Class A Common Stock.. We, all of our directors that own equity in us, all of our executive officers, and other of our Legacy Owners have entered into lock-up agreements pursuant to which we and they are subject to certain restrictions with respect to the sale or other disposition of our Class A Common Stock for a period of 180 days following the date of the IPO. The underwriters, at any time and without notice, may release all or any portion of the Class A Common Stock subject to the foregoing lock-up agreements. If the restrictions under the lock-up agreements are waived, then the Class A Common Stock, subject to compliance with the Securities Act or exceptions therefrom, will be available for sale into the public markets, which could cause the market price of our Class A Common Stock to decline and impair our ability to raise capital.. Liberty Inc. will be required to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreements for certain tax benefits that it may claim, and the amounts of such payments could be significant.. The Tax Receivable Agreements generally provide for the payment by Liberty Inc. to each TRA Holder of 85% of the net cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax and franchise tax (computed using simplifying assumptions to address the impact of state and local taxes) that Liberty Inc. actually realizes (or is deemed to realize in certain circumstances) as a result of certain increases in tax basis, net operating losses available to Liberty Inc. as a result of the Corporate Reorganization, and certain benefits attributable to imputed interest. Liberty Inc. will retain the benefit of the remaining 15% of these cash savings.. The term of each Tax Receivable Agreement will continue until all tax benefits that are subject to such Tax Receivable Agreement have been utilized or expired, unless Liberty Inc. experiences a change of control (as defined in the Tax Receivable Agreements, which includes certain mergers, asset sales and other forms of business combinations) or the Tax Receivable Agreements are terminated early (at Liberty Inc's election or as a result of its breach), and Liberty Inc. makes the termination payments specified in such Tax Receivable Agreement. In addition, payments Liberty Inc. makes under the Tax Receivable Agreements will be increased by any interest accrued from the due date (without extensions) of the corresponding tax return. In the event that the Tax Receivable Agreements are not terminated, the payments under the Tax Receivable Agreements are anticipated to commence in 2019 and to continue for 15 years after the date of the last redemption of the Liberty LLC Units.. The payment obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreements are Liberty Inc.'s obligations and not obligations of Liberty LLC, and Liberty Inc. expects that the payments Liberty Inc. will be required to make under the Tax Receivable Agreements will be substantial. Estimating the amount and timing of payments that may become due under the Tax Receivable Agreements is by its nature imprecise. For purposes of the Tax Receivable Agreements, cash savings in tax generally are calculated by comparing Liberty Inc.'s actual tax liability (determined by using the actual applicable U.S. federal income tax rate and an assumed combined state and local income tax rate) to the amount it would have been required to pay had it not been able to utilize any of the tax benefits subject to the Tax Receivable Agreements. The amounts payable, as well as the timing of any payments, under the Tax Receivable Agreements are dependent upon significant future events and assumptions, including the timing of the redemptions of Liberty LLC Units, the price of our Class A Common Stock at the time of each redemption, the extent to which such redemptions are taxable transactions, the amount of the redeeming unit holder's tax basis in its Liberty LLC Units at the time of the relevant redemption, the depreciation and amortization periods that apply to the increase in tax basis, the amount of net operating losses available to Liberty Inc. as a result of the Corporate Reorganization, the amount and timing of taxable income Liberty Inc. generates in the future, the U.S. federal income tax rate then applicable, and the portion of Liberty Inc.'s payments under the Tax Receivable Agreements that constitute imputed interest or give rise to depreciable or amortizable tax basis.. 35. Table of Contents. The payments under the Tax Receivable Agreements will not be conditioned upon a holder of rights under a Tax Receivable Agreement having a continued ownership interest in Liberty Inc. or Liberty LLC. For additional information regarding the Tax Receivable Agreements, see \"Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions - Tax Receivable Agreements.\". In certain cases, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreements may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits, if any, Liberty Inc. realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreements.. If Liberty Inc. experiences a change of control (as defined under the Tax Receivable Agreements, which includes certain mergers, asset sales and other forms of business combinations) or the Tax Receivable Agreements terminate early (at Liberty Inc.'s election or as a result of its breach), Liberty Inc. would be required to make a substantial, immediate lump-sum payment. This payment would equal the present value of hypothetical future payments that could be required to be paid under the Tax Receivable Agreements (determined by applying a discount rate equal to the long-term Treasury rate in effect on the applicable date plus 300 basis points). The calculation of hypothetical future payments will be based upon certain assumptions and deemed events set forth in the Tax Receivable Agreements, including (i) that Liberty Inc. has sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the tax benefits covered by the Tax Receivable Agreements, (ii) that any Liberty LLC Units (other than those held by Liberty Inc.) outstanding on the termination date are deemed to be redeemed on the termination date, and (iii) certain loss or credit carryovers will be utilized over five years beginning with the taxable year that includes the termination date. Any early termination payments may be made significantly in advance of, and may materially exceed, the actual realization, if any, of the future tax benefits to which the termination payments relate.. If Liberty Inc. experiences a change of control (as defined under the Tax Receivable Agreements) or the Tax Receivable Agreements otherwise terminate early, Liberty Inc.'s obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreements could have a substantial negative impact on its liquidity and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing certain mergers, asset sales, or other forms of business combinations or changes of control. For example, if the Tax Receivable Agreements were terminated immediately after the IPO, the estimated termination payments would, in the aggregate, be approximately $113.8 million (calculated using a discount rate equal to the long-term Treasury rate in effect on the applicable date plus 300 basis points, applied against an undiscounted liability of $173.5 million). The foregoing number is merely an estimate and the actual payment could differ materially. There can be no assurance that we will be able to finance our obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreements.. Please read ''Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions - Tax Receivable Agreements.''. In the event that Liberty Inc.'s payment obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreements are accelerated upon certain mergers, other forms of business combinations or other changes of control, the consideration payable to holders of our Class A Common Stock could be substantially reduced.. If Liberty Inc. experiences a change of control (as defined under the Tax Receivable Agreements, which includes certain mergers, asset sales and other forms of business combinations), Liberty Inc. would be obligated to make a substantial, immediate lump-sum payment, and such payment may be significantly in advance of, and may materially exceed, the actual realization, if any, of the future tax benefits to which the payment relates. As a result of this payment obligation, holders of our Class A Common Stock could receive substantially less consideration in connection with a change of control transaction than they would receive in the absence of such obligation. Further, our payment obligations under the Tax Receivable Agreements will not be conditioned upon the TRA Holders' having a continued interest in Liberty Inc. or Liberty LLC. Accordingly, the TRA Holders' interests may conflict with those of the holders of our Class A Common Stock. Please read \"Risk Factors - Risks Related to our Class A Common Stock - In certain cases, payments under the Tax Receivable Agreements may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits Liberty Inc. realizes, if any, in respect of the tax attributes subject to the Tax Receivable Agreements\" and ''Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions-Tax Receivable Agreements.\". We will not be reimbursed for any payments made under the Tax Receivable Agreements in the event that any tax benefits are subsequently disallowed.. Payments under the Tax Receivable Agreements are based on the tax reporting positions that we will determine. The TRA Holders will not reimburse us for any payments previously made under the Tax Receivable Agreements if any tax benefits that have given rise to payments under the Tax Receivable Agreements are subsequently disallowed, except that excess payments made to any TRA Holder will be netted against payments that would otherwise be made to such TRA Holder, if any, after our determination of such excess. As a result, in such circumstances, Liberty Inc. could make payments that are greater than its actual cash tax savings, if any, and may not be able to recoup those payments, which could adversely affect Liberty Inc.'s liquidity.. 36. Table of Contents. If Liberty LLC were to become a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, Liberty Inc. and Liberty LLC might be subject to potentially significant tax inefficiencies, and Liberty Inc. would not be able to recover payments previously made by it. under the Tax Receivable Agreements even if the corresponding tax benefits were subsequently determined to have been unavailable due to such status.. Liberty Inc. intends to operate such that Liberty LLC does not become a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A \"publicly traded partnership\" is a partnership the interests of which are traded on an established securities market or are readily tradable on a secondary market or the substantial equivalent thereof. Under certain circumstances, redemptions of Liberty LLC Units pursuant to the Redemption Right, Liberty Inc.'s Call Right or other transfers of Liberty LLC Units could cause Liberty LLC to be treated as a publicly traded partnership. Applicable U.S. Treasury regulations provide for certain safe harbors from treatment as a publicly traded partnership, and Liberty Inc. intends to operate such that redemptions or other transfers of Liberty LLC Units qualify for one or more such safe harbors. For example, Liberty Inc. intends to limit the number of unit holders of Liberty LLC, and the Liberty LLC Agreement, which was entered into in connection with the closing of the IPO, provides for limitations on the ability of holders of Liberty LLC Units to transfer their Liberty LLC Units and provides Liberty Inc., as managing member of Liberty LLC, with the right to impose restrictions (in addition to those already in place) on the ability of holders of Liberty LLC Units to redeem their Liberty LLC Units pursuant to the Redemption Right to the extent Liberty Inc. believes it is necessary to ensure that Liberty LLC will continue to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. If Liberty LLC were to become a publicly traded partnership, significant tax inefficiencies might result for Liberty Inc. and for Liberty LLC, including as a result of Liberty Inc.'s inability to file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return with Liberty LLC. In addition, Liberty Inc. would no longer have the benefit of certain increases in tax basis covered under the Tax Receivable Agreements, and Liberty Inc. would not be able to recover any payments previously made by it under the Tax Receivable Agreements, even if the corresponding tax benefits (including any claimed increase in the tax basis of Liberty LLC's assets) were subsequently determined to have been unavailable.. In certain circumstances, Liberty LLC will be required to make tax distributions and tax advances to the Liberty Unit Holders, including us, and the tax distributions and tax advances that Liberty LLC will be required to make may be substantial.. Pursuant to the Liberty LLC Agreement, Liberty LLC will make generally pro rata cash distributions, or tax distributions, to the holders of Liberty LLC Units, including Liberty Inc., in an amount sufficient to allow Liberty Inc. to pay its taxes and to allow it to make payments under the Tax Receivable Agreements. In addition to these pro rata distributions, the Liberty Unit Holders will be entitled to receive tax advances in an amount sufficient to allow each of the Liberty Unit Holders to pay its respective taxes on such holder's allocable share of Liberty LLC's taxable income. Any such tax advance will be calculated after taking into account certain other distributions or payments received by the Liberty Unit Holders from Liberty LLC or Liberty Inc. Under the applicable tax rules, Liberty LLC is required to allocate net taxable income disproportionately to its members in certain circumstances. Tax advances will be determined based on an assumed individual tax rate and will be repaid upon exercise of the Redemption Right or the Call Right, as applicable.. Funds used by Liberty LLC to satisfy its tax distribution and tax advance obligations will not be available for reinvestment in our business. Moreover, the tax distributions and tax advances Liberty LLC will be required to make may be substantial, and is likely to exceed (as a percentage of Liberty LLC's income) the overall effective tax rate applicable to a similarly situated corporate taxpayer. In addition, because these payments will be calculated with reference to an assumed tax rate, and because of the disproportionate allocation of net taxable income, these payments may exceed the actual tax liability for some of the holders of Liberty LLC Units.. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our Class A Common Stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our Class A Common Stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our Class A Common Stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the Class A Common Stock.. 37. Table of Contents. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our Class A Common Stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. The trading market for our Class A Common Stock may be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of the Company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover the Company downgrades our Class A Common Stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. 38. Table of Contents"
