[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company's businesses, operations, liquidity and financial condition are subject to various risks. The Company's business, financial condition or results of operation could be significantly affected by the risks below or additional risks not presently known to the Company or by risks that the Company presently deems immaterial such as changes in the economy, disruptions due to terrorist activity or manmade or natural disasters, or changes in law or accounting standards. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that the Company considers material.. 7. Table of Contents. Economic and political risks. The Company may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. and non-U.S. tax laws in the countries in which it operates.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") was enacted. The Tax Act is one of the most comprehensive changes in U.S. corporate tax law and policy since 1986 and certain provisions are extremely complex in their application. The Tax Act revises the U.S. corporate income tax by, among other things, lowering the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, adopting a quasi-territorial income tax system and imposing a one-time transition tax on foreign unremitted earnings, and setting limitations on deductibility of certain costs (e.g., interest expense).. The lower U.S. corporate income tax rate is effective January 1, 2018; however the Company's U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities were adjusted in 2017 when the new tax law was enacted. Additionally, in 2017, as part of the transition to the new quasi-territorial tax system, the Tax Act imposes a one-time tax on deemed repatriation of foreign subsidiaries' earnings.. Due to the complexities involved in the accounting for the Tax Act, on December, 22, 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission's Staff Accounting Bulletin (\"SAB\") 118 was issued to provide guidance to companies that have not yet completed their accounting for the Tax Act in the period of enactment. SAB 118 requires the Company to include in its financial statements a reasonable estimate of the impact of the Tax Act on earnings to the extent such estimate has been determined. Accordingly, the U.S. provision for income tax for 2017 is based on the reasonable estimate guidance provided by SAB 118. The Company is continuing to assess the impact from the Tax Act and will record adjustments in 2018. The final impact on the Company from the Tax Act's transition tax legislation may differ from the reasonable estimate due to the complexity of calculating and supporting with primary evidence such U.S. tax attributes as accumulated foreign earnings and profits, foreign tax paid, and other tax components involved in foreign tax credit calculations for prior years back to 1986. Such differences could be material, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, future legislative action to address questions that arise because of the Tax Act, changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates the Company has utilized to calculate the transition tax's reasonable estimate. Such differences could have a material adverse effect upon the Company's results of operations.. The Company's business may be materially adversely affected by market conditions and by global and economic conditions and other factors beyond its control.. The Company's performance is affected by general economic factors, the strength of retail economies and political conditions that are beyond its control. Retail economies are impacted by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which in turn, are affected by general economic factors. These general economic factors include, among other factors:. <U+0095>   recession, inflation, deflation, unemployment and other factors adversely affecting consumer spending patterns generally;. <U+0095>   conditions affecting the retail environment for the home and other matters that influence consumer spending in the home retail industry specifically;. <U+0095>   conditions affecting the housing markets;. <U+0095>   consumer credit availability and consumer debt levels;. <U+0095>   material input costs, including fuel and energy costs and labor cost inflation;. <U+0095>   foreign currency translation;. <U+0095>   interest rates and the ability to hedge interest rate risks;. <U+0095>   government policies including tax policies relating to value-added taxes, import and export duties and quotas, antidumping regulations and related tariffs, import and export controls and social compliance standards;. <U+0095>   the impact of natural disasters, conflicts and terrorist activities;. <U+0095>   unfavorable economic conditions in the United States, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Asia and elsewhere; and. <U+0095>   unstable economic and political conditions, lack of legal regulation enforcement, civil unrest and political activism, particularly in Asia.. 8. Table of Contents. The referendum held in the United Kingdom (\"U.K.\") on June 23, 2016 resulted in a determination that the U.K. should exit the European Union. Such an exit from the European Union would be unprecedented and it is unclear what impact this would have on the U.K.'s access to the EU Single Market and on the legal and regulatory environment in which the Company operates, as well as its effect on the global macroeconomic environment. Net sales attributable to U.K. domiciled businesses were $95.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, and represent approximately 17% of the Company's consolidated net sales for the period. The uncertainty surrounding the terms of the U.K.'s exit and its consequences could adversely impact the U.K economy, customers and investor confidence. It may contribute to additional market volatility, including volatility in the value of the British pound and European euro, and adversely affect the Company's businesses, results of operations, and financial condition.. Liquidity and financial risks. The Company has substantial indebtedness and the Company's business is highly seasonal.. The Company has a substantial amount of indebtedness and is dependent on the availability of its bank loan facilities to finance its liquidity needs. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had approximately $94.8 million of consolidated debt, including $94.7 million under its Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A, as Administrative Agent and Co-Collateral Agent, and HSBC Bank USA, National Association, as Syndication Agent and Co-Collateral Agent, and the other Lenders and Loan Parties party thereto, as amended, (the \"Former Credit Agreement\"). Until it was replaced, as described below, the Former Credit Agreement provided for, among other things, a Revolving Credit Facility commitment totaling $175.0 million (the \"Revolving Credit Facility\") and a term loan that had been repaid in full in April 2017 (\"Term Loan\"). At December 31, 2017, borrowings under the Former Credit Agreement represented approximately 24% of total capital (indebtedness plus stockholders' equity). The Company was permitted to borrow under its Revolving Credit Facility, subject to the limitations of a borrowing base. Because the borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility depended on levels of eligible inventory, accounts receivable and the appraised value of certain intellectual property that fluctuated from time to time, the full commitment amount might not have represented actual borrowing capacity at any given time. The financial covenants in the Former Credit Agreement limited the Company's ability to incur indebtedness.. In connection with the Company's acquisition of Taylor, on March 2, 2018 (1) the Company entered into a new credit agreement (with all exhibits, schedules and attachments thereto, the \"ABL Credit Agreement\") with the Company, as a borrower and a guarantor, the other borrowers (the \"ABL Borrowers\") party thereto, the other guarantors party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (\"JPMorgan\"), as administrative agent, and the lenders and issuing banks party thereto, evidencing a senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility provided to the Company and the ABL Borrowers in the maximum aggregate principal amount of $150.0 million, which facility will mature on March 2, 2023, and (2) the Company entered into a new loan agreement (with all exhibits, schedules and attachments thereto, the \"TLB Credit Agreement\" and, collectively with the ABL Credit Agreement, the \"Debt Agreements\") with the Company, as the borrower and a guarantor, the other guarantors, JPMorgan, as administrative agent, Golub Capital LLC, as syndication agent, and the lenders party thereto, providing for a senior secured term loan credit facility to the Company in the principal amount of $275.0 million, which will mature on February 28, 2025. The term loan facility will be repaid, commencing June 30, 2018, in quarterly payments of principal equal to 0.25% of the original aggregate principal amount of the term loan facility. The maximum borrowing under the ABL Credit Agreement may be increased to up to $200.0 million if certain conditions are met. One or more tranches of additional term loans (the \"Incremental Facilities\") may be added under the TLB Credit Agreement if certain conditions are met. The Incremental Facilities may not exceed the sum of (i) $50.0 million plus (ii) an unlimited amount so long as, in the case of (ii) only, the Company's secured net leverage ratio, as defined in and computed pursuant to the TLB Credit Agreement, is no greater than 3.75 to 1.00 subject to certain limitations and for the period defined pursuant to the TLB Credit Agreement.. The Company utilized the proceeds of borrowings under the revolving credit facility and the proceeds of the term loan (i) to repay in full all existing indebtedness for borrowed money under the Former Credit Agreement and (ii) to finance the acquisition of Taylor, the refinancing of certain indebtedness of Taylor and its subsidiaries, and the payment of fees and expenses in connection with the foregoing. The Company may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay when due the principal of, interest on, or other amounts due with respect to, its indebtedness. In addition, the Company's business is seasonal with a significant amount of its revenue being realized during the latter portion of the year. Therefore, the Company's borrowing needs fluctuate widely based upon its working capital requirements.. 9. Table of Contents. The debt financing obtained in connection with the Company's acquisition of Taylor increased the Company's debt and caused the Company to become more highly leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on its obligations and an increase in debt service requirements which will adversely affect the Company's financial condition. The Company's leverage and the effects of seasonal fluctuations in its cash flow, borrowing requirements and ability to borrow could have significant negative consequences on the Company's financial condition and results of operations, including:. <U+0095>   impairing the Company's ability to meet the financial covenants, if and when applicable, contained in the ABL Credit Agreement or to generate cash sufficient to pay interest or principal due under its Debt Agreements, which could result in an acceleration of some or all of the Company's outstanding debt;. <U+0095>   limiting the Company's ability to borrow money, dispose of assets or sell equity to fund the Company's working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, debt service, strategic initiatives or other obligations or purposes;. <U+0095>   limiting the Company's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the economy, the markets, regulatory requirements, its operations or business;. <U+0095>   making the Company more highly leveraged than some of its competitors, which may place the Company at a competitive disadvantage;. <U+0095>   making the Company more vulnerable to downturns in the economy or its business;. <U+0095>   requiring a substantial portion of the Company's cash flow from operations to make interest payments;. <U+0095>   making it more difficult for the Company to satisfy other obligations;. <U+0095>   increasing the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of the Company, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing; and. <U+0095>   preventing the Company from borrowing additional funds as needed or taking advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase common stock.. To the extent the Company incurs additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. In addition, the Company's actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. The Company's cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to service its outstanding debt or to repay the outstanding debt as it becomes due, and the Company may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to service or refinance its debt.. The Company's failure to meet certain covenants or comply with other requirements of its Credit Agreement may materially and adversely affect the Company's assets, financial position and cash flows.. The ABL Credit Agreement, under certain circumstances, requires the Company to maintain a certain fixed charge coverage ratio. As a result of this and other covenants within the Debt Agreements, the Company is limited in its ability to incur additional debt, make investments or undertake certain other business activities. These requirements could limit the Company's ability to obtain future financing and may prevent the Company from taking advantage of attractive business opportunities. The Company's ability to meet the covenants or requirements in its Debt Agreements may be affected by events beyond the Company's control, and the Company cannot assure you that it will satisfy such covenants and requirements. A breach of these covenants or the Company's inability to comply with the restrictions could result in an event of default under the Debt Agreements, which in turn could result in an event of default under the terms of the Company's other indebtedness. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Company's Debt Agreements, after the expiration of any grace periods, the Company's lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Company's debt arrangements, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If this happens, the Company cannot assure that its assets would be sufficient to repay in full the amounts due under the Debt Agreements or the Company's other indebtedness.. 10. Table of Contents. The Company's sale of certain accounts receivable subjects the Company to additional liquidity risks.. In order to improve its liquidity during seasonally high working capital periods, in 2016 the Company entered into an uncommitted Receivables Purchase Agreement with HSBC Bank USA, National Association (\"HSBC\"), as Purchaser (the \"Receivables Purchase Agreement\"). If HSBC terminates the Company's Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Company may experience a material and adverse loss of its liquidity, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's borrowings, and discount rate applied to sale of receivables, are subject to interest rate fluctuations and an increase in interest rates could adversely affect the Company's financial results.. The Company's borrowings bear interest at floating rates. An increase in interest rates would adversely affect the Company's profitability. To the extent that the Company's access to credit may be restricted because of its own performance, its bank lenders' performances or conditions in the capital markets generally, the Company would not be able to operate normally.. The Company's Receivables Purchase Agreement also depends upon LIBOR, as it is a component of the discount rate applicable to the agreement. If LIBOR increases, the Company may not be able to rely on the Receivables Purchase Agreement, which could have a material and adverse effect upon the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Company's ability to complete future acquisitions or strategic alliances and/or integrate acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.. The Company has historically achieved growth through acquisitions, investments and joint ventures. In addition to the acquisition of Taylor, the Company seeks acquisition opportunities that complement and expand its operations, some of which are based outside the United States. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable acquisitions, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms, obtain regulatory approval or otherwise complete acquisitions in the future.. Additionally, the Company may not be able to successfully integrate the business of Taylor or future acquired businesses into its existing business without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. Potential difficulties the Company may encounter as part of the integration process include the following:. <U+0095>   the potential inability to successfully combine businesses in a manner that permits the Company to achieve the cost synergies expected to be achieved as a result of the consummation of the acquisition and other benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition;. <U+0095>   the potential inability to integrate acquired companies' products and services;. <U+0095>   challenges leveraging the customer information and technology of the two companies;. <U+0095>   challenges effectuating the diversification strategy, including challenges achieving revenue growth from sales of each company's products and services to the clients and customers of the other company;. <U+0095>   complexities associated with managing the combined businesses, including difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks, and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, clients, employees, lenders, and other constituencies; and. <U+0095>   potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the acquisition.. It is possible that the integration process could result in diversion of the attention of each company's management which could adversely affect each company's ability to maintain relationships with customers, clients, employees, and other constituencies or the Company's ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, or could reduce each company's operating results or otherwise adversely affect the Company's business and financial results following the acquisition.. 11. Table of Contents. The Company's future results and reputation will suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded operations following the acquisition.. Following the acquisition of Taylor, the size of the Company's business will increase substantially. The Company's future success depends, in part, upon its ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations, significantly increased foreign operations, and associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances that the Company will be successful following the acquisition.. The Company expects to incur substantial expenses related to the acquisition and integration of Taylor.. The Company expects to incur significant transaction costs and significant synergy planning and integration costs in connection with the acquisition of Taylor. The Company may have substantial expenses related to the acquisition and the related debt financing. While the Company has assumed that this level of expense will be incurred, there are many factors beyond its control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the acquisition expenses, integration expenses and the debt financing expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. To the extent these acquisition expenses, integration expenses and debt financing expenses are higher than anticipated, the Company's future operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected and the Company's ability to meet the covenants mandated by its credit obligations may be impaired.. The Company's future results following the acquisition of Taylor may differ materially from the unaudited pro forma financial information included in the definitive proxy statement related to the acquisition.. The unaudited pro forma combined financial information contained in the Company's definitive proxy statement for the special meeting of stockholders to approve the issuance of shares of common stock in connection with the acquisition of Taylor was presented for purposes of presenting the Company's historical consolidated financial statements with Taylor's historical consolidated financial statements as adjusted to give effect to the acquisition and is not necessarily indicative of the financial condition or results of operations of the Company following the acquisition. The unaudited pro forma combined financial information reflected adjustments, which was based upon preliminary estimates, to allocate the purchase price to Taylor's acquired assets and liabilities. The purchase price allocation reflected in the proxy statement is still preliminary, and final allocation of the purchase price will be based upon the actual purchase price and the fair value of the assets and liabilities of Taylor as of March 2, 2018, the date of the consummation of the acquisition, which valuation is not yet complete. In addition, the assumptions used in preparing the pro forma financial information may not prove to be accurate, and other factors may affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations following the acquisition. Any change in the Company's financial condition or results of operations may cause significant variations in the price of the Company's common stock.. The market price of the Company's common stock may decline as a result of the acquisition of Taylor or the issuance of shares to Taylor Parent.. The Company anticipates that the acquisition of Taylor will be accretive to earnings per share, after factoring in synergies and excluding costs to achieve synergies and other one-time costs related to the acquisition. This expectation is based on preliminary estimates that are subject to change. The Company could also encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs, may fail to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the acquisition, or be subject to other factors that affect preliminary estimates. Any of these factors could cause a decrease in the Company's earnings per share or adjusted earnings per share or decrease the expected accretive effect of the acquisition and contribute to a decrease in the price of the Company's common stock.. In addition, the Company is unable to predict the potential effects of the issuance of the shares to Taylor parent on the trading activity and market price of the Company's common stock. The Company granted certain registration rights to Taylor Parent for the resale of the shares of common stock issued in connection with the acquisition. These registration rights would facilitate the resale of such securities into the public market, and any such resale would increase the number of shares of the Company's common stock available for public trading. Sales of a substantial number of shares of the Company's common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of the Company's common stock.. 12. Table of Contents. Foreign exchange variability could materially adversely affect the Company's operating results.. The Company's functional currency is the U.S. Dollar. Changes in the relation of foreign currencies to the U.S. Dollar will affect the Company's sales and profitability and can result in exchange losses because the Company has operations and assets located outside the United States. The Company transacts a portion of its business in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, primarily British Pounds, and to a lesser degree, Chinese Renminbi, Euros and Canadian Dollars. Such transactions include sales, certain inventory purchases and operating expenses. As a result, portions of the Company's cash, trade accounts receivable and trade accounts payable, as well as other assets and liabilities, are denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly, foreign operations expose the Company to foreign currency fluctuations, both for purposes of actual conversion and financial reporting purposes. In the consolidated financial statements, local currency financial results are translated into U.S. dollars based on the exchange rates prevailing during the reporting periods. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, the reported revenues and earnings of the international operations will be reduced because the local currencies will translate into fewer U.S. dollars.. The Company's strategic alliances in Mexico and Canada also subject the Company to increases and decreases in its investments resulting from the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.. The vast majority of products are purchased from China in U.S. Dollars, including products purchased by the Company's international operations. As a result, the gross margin from international operations is subject to volatility from movements in exchange rates, which could have an adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations and profitability from the growth desired from international operations. The Company has entered into foreign exchange derivative financial instruments to hedge the volatility of exchange rates related to a portion of its international inventory purchases. The Company cannot ensure, however, that these hedges will fully offset the impact of foreign currency rate movements. If the Chinese Renminbi should appreciate against the U.S. Dollar, the costs of the Company's products will likely rise over time because of the impact the fluctuations will have on the Company's suppliers, and the Company may not be able to pass on these price increases to its customers. The Company is also subject to the risks of currency controls and devaluations. Currency controls may limit the Company's ability to convert currencies into U.S. Dollars or other currencies, as needed, or to pay dividends or make other payments from funds held by subsidiaries in the countries imposing such controls, which could adversely affect the Company's liquidity.. As the Company continues to expand its international operations, it will be subject to increased foreign exchange variability which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on the Company's results of operations cannot be accurately predicted.. The Company's business requires it to maintain large fixed-costs that can affect its profitability. Cost reduction efforts and restructurings benefits may not be realized.. The Company's business requires it to maintain large distribution facilities in its key markets, which represent high fixed rental costs relating to its leased facilities. In addition, significant portions of the Company's selling, general and administrative expenses, including leased showrooms, are fixed, they neither increase nor decrease proportionally with sales. Furthermore, the Company's gross margins depend, in part, on its ability to spread certain other costs, of which a significant portion are fixed, over its products sold. Decreased demand or the need to reduce inventories can lower the Company's ability to absorb fixed costs and adversely affect its results of operations. This is exacerbated by the high degree of seasonality impacting the Company, which results in lower demand during the first two quarters of the year, while many of the operating costs remain fixed, which further affects profitability.. In order to operate more efficiently and control costs, the Company may announce from time to time restructuring plans, including workforce reductions, global facility consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives that are intended to generate operating expense savings. The implementation of restructuring plans could be disruptive to the Company's operations, result in higher than anticipated charges and otherwise adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Company's ability to complete the restructuring plan and achieve the anticipated benefits from the plan is subject to estimates and assumptions and may vary materially from the Company's expectations, including as a result of factors that are beyond the Company's control. Furthermore, following completion of a restructuring plan, the business may not be more efficient or effective than prior to implementation of the plan.. 13. Table of Contents. If the Company's goodwill or other long-term assets become impaired, the Company will be required to record impairment charges, which may be significant.. A portion of the Company's long-term assets consists of goodwill recorded as a result of the Company's acquisitions; other identifiable intangible assets, including trade names; and fixed assets. At December 31, 2017, goodwill totaled $15.8 million. The Company does not amortize goodwill but rather reviews it for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its current fair value as determined based on the discounted future cash flows of the reporting unit or comparable market sales and earnings multiples, the goodwill or intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value. Events and conditions that could result in impairment include a prolonged period of global economic weakness, a decline in economic conditions or a slow, weak economic recovery, as well as sustained declines in the price of the Company's common stock, adverse changes in the regulatory environment, adverse changes in the market share of the Company's products, adverse changes in interest rates, further corporate income tax reforms or other factors leading to reductions in the long-term sales or profitability that the Company expects. Determination of the fair value of a reporting unit includes developing estimates which are highly subjective and incorporate calculations that are sensitive to minor changes in underlying assumptions. Management's assumptions change as more information becomes available. Changes in these assumptions could result in an impairment charge in the future, which could have a significant adverse impact on the Company's reported earnings. If future operating performance of one or more of the Company's operating segments does not meet expectations, the Company may be required to record a significant charge during the period in which any impairment of the Company's goodwill or other long-term assets is determined.. As of October 1, 2016, the fair value of the Creative Tops reporting unit, which carried goodwill of $2.1 million, was approximately 3% below its carrying value. In 2016 the Company performed the second step of the impairment test by estimating the fair value of the assets and liabilities to determine the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill was determined to be greater than the carrying value and no impairment charge was recorded. As of October 1, 2016, the excess of fair value of the Kitchen Craft reporting unit, which carried goodwill of $9.7 million, was approximately 3% over its carrying value.. As of October 1, 2017, the fair values of the Creative Tops and Kitchen Craft reporting units, both exceeded their respective carrying values. Such excess fair value was driven by realized cost savings and, to a larger extent, future cost savings from the combination of the operations expected to be completed in the near term. Changes in any of the significant assumptions used in calculating their respective fair values could materially affect the expected cash flows, and a material non-cash impairment charge could result.. The Company's acquisition of Taylor will be accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 805, which will establish a new basis of accounting for all identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value as of the date control is obtained. The allocation of purchase price is preliminary at this time; however, the Company believes long-term assets will consist of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including trade names. If the future operating performance of the acquired business does not meet expectations, the Company may be required to record a significant charge during the period in which any impairment of the Company's goodwill or other long-term assets is determined.. The recognition of an impairment of the Company's goodwill or any of the Company's assets would negatively affect the results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material.. The Company's projections of product demand, sales and net income are highly subjective in nature and the Company's future sales and net income could vary in a material amount from the Company's projections.. From time to time, the Company may provide projections to its stockholders, lenders, the investment community, and other stakeholders of the Company's future sales and net income. Since the Company does not have long-term purchase commitments from customers and the customer order and shipment process is very short, it is difficult for the Company to accurately predict the demand for many of its products, or the amount and timing of the Company's future sales and related net income. The Company's projections are based on management's best estimate of sales using historical sales data and other information deemed relevant. These projections are highly subjective since sales can fluctuate substantially based on the demands of retail customers and due to other risks described in this Annual Report. Additionally, changes in retailer inventory management strategies could make the Company's inventory management more difficult. Because the Company's ability to forecast product demand and the timing of related sales includes significant subjective input, future sales and net income could vary materially from the Company's projections.. 14. Table of Contents. Increases in the cost of employee benefits could materially adversely impact the Company's financial results and cash flows.. The Company self-insures a substantial portion of the costs of employee healthcare and workers compensation. This could result in higher volatility in the Company's earnings and exposes the Company to higher financial risks. The Company's medical costs in recent years have generally increased and an aging workforce and other employee demographics could result in an increase in medical costs beyond what the Company has experienced or expects. The Company has stop-loss coverage in place for catastrophic events, but the aggregate impact of a high number of claims up to the Company's stop-loss limit may have an effect on the Company's profitability.. There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of the Company's controls.. The Company does not expect that its disclosure controls or the Company's internal controls over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well-designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. The design of a control system must reflect the fact that resource constraints exist, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of controls to future periods are subject to risks. Over time, controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. If the Company's controls become inadequate, it could fail to meet its financial reporting obligations, its reputation may be adversely affected, its business and operating results could be harmed, and the market price of its stock could decline.. Customer risks. The Company faces intense competition from other companies worldwide.. The markets for the Company's products are intensely competitive with the principal competitive factors being product innovation, brand name, product quality, aesthetic appeal to customers, packaging, breadth of product offerings, distribution capability, delivery time and price. Advantages or disadvantages in any of these competitive factors may be sufficient to cause the customer to consider changing providers of the kinds of products that the Company sells. The Company competes with many other suppliers, some of which are larger than the Company, have greater financial and other resources or employ brands that are more established, have greater consumer recognition or are more favorably perceived by consumers or retailers than the Company's brands. Some competitors may be willing to reduce prices and accept lower profit margins to compete with the Company. As a result of this competition, the Company could lose market share and sales, or be forced to reduce its prices to meet competition. If the Company's product offerings are unable to compete successfully, the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Changes in the Company's customer purchasing practices could materially adversely affect the Company's operating results.. The Company's wholesale customers include mass merchants, specialty stores, national chains, department stores, warehouse clubs, supermarkets, off-price retailers and Internet retailers. Unanticipated changes in purchasing and other practices by the Company's customers, including a customer's pricing and payment terms, inventory destocking, limitations on shelf space, more extensive packaging requirements, changes in order quantities, use of private label brands and other practices, could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, as a result of the desire of retailers to more closely manage inventory levels, there is a growing trend among retailers to make purchases on a \"just-in-time\" basis. This requires the Company to shorten its lead time for production in certain cases and more closely anticipate demand, which could in the future require the Company to carry additional inventories. The Company's annual earnings and cash flows also depend to a great extent on the results of operations in the latter half of the year due to the seasonality of its sales. The Company's success and sales growth is also dependent on its evaluation of consumer preferences and changing trends.. 15. Table of Contents. As certain online retailers grow they may continue to demand lower pricing, special packaging, shorter lead times for the delivery of products, smaller more frequent shipments, or impose other requirements on product suppliers. The cost of compliance with customers' demands could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Many of the Company's wholesale customers are significantly larger than the Company, have greater financial and other resources and also purchase goods directly from vendors in Asia and elsewhere. Decisions by large customers to increase their purchases directly from overseas vendors could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Significant changes or financial difficulties, including consolidations of ownership, restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations or other events that affect retailers, could result in fewer retailers selling the Company's products, reliance on a smaller group of customers, an increase in the risk of extending credit to these customers or limitations on the Company's ability to collect amounts due from these customers. Although the Company has long-established relationships with many of its customers, the Company does not have any long-term supply or binding contracts or guarantees of minimum purchases. Purchases by the Company's customers are generally made using individual purchase orders. Customers may cancel their orders, change purchase quantities from forecast volumes, delay purchases for a number of reasons beyond the Company's control or change other terms of their business relationship with the Company. Significant or numerous cancellations, reductions, delays in purchases or changes in business practices by customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. Retailers place great emphasis on timely delivery of products for specific selling seasons, especially during the third fiscal quarter, and on the fulfillment of consumer demand throughout the year. The Company cannot control all of the various factors that might affect product delivery to retailers. Failure to deliver products to the Company's retailers in a timely and effective manner, often under special vendor requirements to use specific carriers and delivery schedules, could damage the Company's reputation and brands and result in a loss of customers or reduced orders.. Changes at the Company's large customers, or actions taken by them, and consolidation in the retail industry could materially adversely affect the Company's operating results.. In 2017, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., including Sam's Club and, in the United Kingdom, Asda Superstore (\"Walmart\"), accounted for approximately 15% of the Company's consolidated net sales. The Company's top ten customers accounted for approximately 56% of the Company's consolidated net sales in 2017. A material reduction in sales to Walmart or other top customers in aggregate, could have a significant adverse effect on the Company's business and operating results. In addition, pressures by such customers that would cause the Company to materially reduce the price of its products which could result in reduced operating margin. Any significant changes or financial difficulties that affect these customers, such as reduced sales by such customers (whether for reasons that affect a particular customer or the retail industry in general) may also result in reduced demand for the Company's products. The Company would also be subject to increased credit risk with respect to such customers. In particular, the concentration of the Company's business with Walmart extends to its international business, including in China, as well as through Vasconia in Mexico and the Company's strategic alliance in Canada, due to the market presence of Walmart in these foreign countries. Any changes in purchasing practices or decline in the financial condition, of Walmart or other large customers may have a material adverse impact on the business, results of operations and financial condition of the Company.. The Company's large customers also have significant purchasing leverage. Customers may demand lower pricing, special packaging, shorter lead times for the delivery of products or impose other requirements on product suppliers like the Company. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. If the Company does not effectively respond to the demands of its customers, they could decrease or eliminate their purchases from the Company. These risks could be exacerbated if such large customers consolidate, or if the Company's smaller customers consolidate to become larger customers, which would increase their purchasing leverage. A reduction in the purchases of the Company's products by its wholesale customers or the costs of complying with customer business demands could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's customers could carry products that directly compete with the Company's products for retail space and consumer purchases. There is a risk that these customers could give higher priority to products of, or form alliances with, the Company's competitors. Failure of customers to provide the Company's products with similar levels of promotional support and retail space could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. 16. Table of Contents. The rapidly changing retail environment could result in the loss of, or material reduction in, sales to certain of the Company's customers, which could materially adversely affect Company's business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The retail environment is highly competitive. Consumers are increasingly embracing shopping online and through mobile commerce applications. As a result, a greater portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers is occurring online and through mobile commerce applications. If the Company's brick-and-mortar retail customers fail to maintain or grow their overall market position through the integration of physical retail presence and digital retail, these customers may experience financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. This could, in turn, substantially reduce the Company's revenues, increase credit risk and have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. If the Company is unable to effectively manage Taylor's and the Company's existing Internet business, its reputation and operating results may be harmed.. The success of Taylor's and the Company's Internet business depends, in part, on factors over which the Company may have limited control. The Company must successfully respond to changing consumer preferences and buying trends relating to Internet usage. The Company is also vulnerable to certain additional risks and uncertainties associated with the Internet, including: changes in required technology interfaces; website downtime and other technical failures; costs and technical issues as the Company upgrades its website software; computer viruses; changes in applicable federal and state regulations; security breaches; and consumer privacy concerns. In addition, the Company must keep up to date with competitive technology trends, including the use of improved technology, creative user interfaces and other Internet marketing tools such as paid search, which may increase its costs and which may not succeed in increasing sales or attracting customers. The Company's failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties might adversely affect the sales in its Internet business, as well as damage the Company's reputation and brands.. Demand for new products and the inability to develop and introduce new competitive products at favorable profit margins could adversely affect the Company's performance and prospects for future growth.. New product introductions and product innovation are significant contributors to the Company's growth strategy and the Company's long-term success in the competitive retail environment depends in part on the Company's ability to develop and market a continuing stream of innovative new products that meet changing consumer preferences. The uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new products, such as the market demands and the costs of development and production may impede the successful development and introduction of new products. Acceptance of the new products may not meet sales expectations due to several factors, such as the Company's failure to accurately predict market demand or its inability to resolve technical issues in a timely and cost-effective manner. Additionally, the inability to develop new products on a timely basis could result in the loss of business to competitors.. The acquisition of Taylor may result in a loss of customers, clients and strategic alliances.. As a result of the acquisition of Taylor, some of the customers, clients, potential customers or clients or strategic partners of the Company or Taylor may terminate their business relationship with the Company following the acquisition. Potential clients or strategic partners may delay entering into, or decide not to enter into, a business relationship with the Company because of the acquisition. If customer or client relationships or strategic alliances are adversely affected by the acquisition, the Company's business and financial performance following the acquisition would suffer.. Supply chain risks. International suppliers subject the Company to regional regulatory, political, economic and foreign currency exchange risk that could materially and adversely affect the Company's operating results.. The Company sources its products from suppliers located principally in Asia, Europe and the United States. The Company's vendors in Asia, from whom a substantial majority of the Company's products are sourced, are located primarily in the People's Republic of China, which subjects the Company to various risks within the region including regulatory, political, economic and foreign currency changes. The Company's ability to select and retain reliable vendors and suppliers who provide timely deliveries of quality parts and products efficiently will impact its success in meeting customer demand for timely delivery of quality products. The Company's sourcing operations and its vendors are impacted by labor costs in. 17. Table of Contents. China, where labor historically has been readily available at low cost relative to labor costs in North America. However, as China is experiencing rapid social, political and economic changes, labor costs have risen in some regions and labor in China may not continue to be available to the Company at costs consistent with historical levels. Changes in labor or other laws may be enacted which would have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations in China, or those of the Company's suppliers. Although China currently enjoys \"most favored nation\" trading status with the U.S., the U.S. government has in the past proposed to revoke such status and to impose higher tariffs on products imported from China. Changes in currency exchange rates might negatively affect the Company and its overseas vendors' profitability and business prospects. The Company does not have access to its vendors' financial information and the Company is unable to assess its vendors' financial condition, including their liquidity. Interruption of supplies from any of the Company's vendors, or the loss of one or more key vendors, could have a negative effect on the Company's business and operating results.. The Company's international trade subjects it to transportation risks.. The Company imports its products for delivery to its distribution centers, as well as arranges for its customers to import goods to which title has passed overseas or at port of entry. For purchases that are to be delivered to its distribution centers, the Company arranges for transportation, primarily by sea, from ports in Asia and Europe to ports in the United States, principally New York/Newark/Elizabeth and Los Angeles/Long Beach, and in the United Kingdom, principally Felixstowe. Accordingly, the Company is subject to risks incidental to such transportation. These risks include, but are not limited to, increases in fuel costs, fuel shortages, the availability of ships, increased security restrictions, work stoppages, weather disruptions and carriers' ability to provide delivery services to meet the Company's shipping needs. Transportation disruptions and increased transportation costs could materially adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company depends on third-party manufactures to produce the majority of its products which presents quality control risks to the Company.. With the exception of the Company's sterling silver products, the Company sources almost all of its products from suppliers located outside the United States, primarily in the People's Republic of China, which restricts the Company's ability to monitor and control their manufacture of the Company's goods.. Although the Company has agreements with its third party manufacturers regarding quality standards and regularly audits the facilities of its manufacturers, through its quality control program, there can be no assurance that the third party manufacturers will continue to meet the Company's quality standards, social standards regarding its workforce that are expected in the United States or legislation and regulations that apply to the products the Company contracts to manufacture. Failure by the Company's manufacturers to meet these standards could, in turn, increase order cancellations, returns and price concessions and decrease customer demand for the Company's products. Non-compliance with the Company's product standards, regulatory requirements or product recall (or other regulatory actions) could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. The Company's product costs are subject to price fluctuation.. Various commodities comprise the raw materials used to manufacture the Company's products. The prices of these commodities have historically fluctuated on a cyclical basis and have often depended on a variety of factors over which the Company has no control. Additionally, labor costs represent a significant component of the Company's supplier's manufacturing costs and the Company's suppliers may increase the prices they charge the Company if they experience rising labor costs. The cost of producing and distributing the Company's products is also sensitive to energy costs, duties and tariffs. The selling prices of the Company's products have not always increased in response to raw material, labor or other cost increases, and the Company is unable to determine to what extent, if any, it will be able to pass future cost increases through to its customers. The Company's inability to come to favorable agreements with its suppliers or to pass increased costs through to the Company's customers could materially and adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. Intellectual property risks. The loss of certain licenses or material changes in royalty rates could materially adversely affect the Company's operating margin and cash flow.. Significant portions of the Company's business are dependent on trade names, trademarks and patents, some of which are licensed from third parties. In 2017, sales of licensed brands accounted for approximately 37% of the Company's gross sales. The Company's licenses for many of these brands require it to pay royalties based on sales. Many of these license agreements are subject to termination by the licensor, if, for example, the Company fails to satisfy certain minimum sales obligations or breaches the terms of the license. The loss of significant licenses or a material increase in the royalty rates the Company pays or other new terms negotiated upon renewal of such licenses could result in a reduction of the Company's operating margins and cash flow from operations or otherwise adversely affect its business.. The Company holds certain rights to use the Farberware brand for kitchen tools and gadgets, cutlery, cutting boards, shears and certain other products which together represent a material portion of its sales, through a fully-paid, royalty-free license for a term that expires in 2195, subject to earlier termination under certain circumstances. The licensor is a joint venture of which the Company is a 50% owner. The other 50% owner of the joint venture has the right to terminate the Company's license if the Company materially breaches any of the material terms of the license and fails to cure the material breach within 180 days of notice of the breach, if it is determined in an arbitration proceeding that money damages alone would not be sufficient compensation to the licensor and that the breach is so egregious as to warrant termination of the license and forfeiture of the Company's rights to use the brand under that license agreement. If the Company were to lose the Farberware license for kitchen tools and gadgets, cutlery, cutting boards, shears and other products through termination as a result of an uncured breach, its business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected.. The Company's license to use the KitchenAid brand, to a lesser extent, also represents a material portion of its sales and is subject to a license agreement that has a three-year term that will expire in December 2018. The Company originally entered into a licensing arrangement for use of the KitchenAid brand in 2000, and has renewed the license, typically for three-year periods, since that time. Although it expects to be able to renew its current KitchenAid license prior to its expiration, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to do so on reasonable terms, or at all, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company may not be able to adequately establish or protect its intellectual property rights, and the infringement or loss of the Company's intellectual property rights could harm its business.. To establish and protect the Company's intellectual property rights, the Company relies upon a combination of U.S., foreign and multi-national patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, together with licenses, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements. The measures that the Company takes to protect its intellectual property rights may prove inadequate to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating the Company's intellectual property, or from breaching their contractual obligations to the Company.. The Company has obtained and applied for numerous U.S. and foreign trademark, service mark and patent registrations, and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional marks, patents or other intellectual property, as appropriate. The Company cannot guarantee that any of its pending applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. Moreover, even if such applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose, declare invalid or otherwise challenge these registrations. Failure to obtain registrations for the Company's intellectual property in the United States and other countries could limit the Company's ability to protect its intellectual property rights and impede the Company's marketing efforts and operations in those jurisdictions.. The Company may need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend its intellectual property rights. If a competitor or collaborator files a patent application claiming technology also claimed by the Company, or a trademark application claiming a trademark, service mark or trade dress also used by the Company, in order to protect the Company's rights, the Company may have to participate in opposition or interference proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or a similar foreign agency. The Company cannot guarantee that the operation of its business does not infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of third parties, and the Company's intellectual property rights may be challenged by third parties or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. The costs associated with protecting intellectual property rights, including costs associated with litigation or administrative proceedings, may be material and there can be no assurance that any such litigation or administrative proceedings will be successful. Any such matters or. 19. Table of Contents. proceedings could be burdensome, divert the time and resources of the Company's personnel and the Company may not prevail. Furthermore, even if the Company's intellectual property rights are not directly challenged, disputes among third parties could lead to the weakening or invalidation of the Company's intellectual property rights, or other parties such as the Company's competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to the Company's technology.. The laws of certain foreign countries in which the Company operates or may operate in the future do not protect, and the governments of certain foreign countries do not enforce, intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws and government of the U.S., which may negate the Company's competitive or technological advantages in such markets. Moreover, any repeal or weakening of intellectual property laws or enforcement of those laws in the United States or foreign jurisdictions could make it more difficult for the Company to adequately protect its intellectual property rights, negatively impacting their value and increasing the cost of enforcing the Company's rights. If the Company is unable to establish or adequately protect its intellectual property rights, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. If the Company is unable to protect the confidentiality of its proprietary information and know-how, the value of the Company's technology, products and services could be harmed significantly.. In addition to registered intellectual property, the Company relies on know-how and other proprietary information in operating its business. If this information is not adequately protected, then it may be disclosed or used in an unauthorized manner. To the extent that consultants, vendors, key employees or other third parties apply technology independently developed by them or by others to the Company's proposed products in the absence of a valid license or suitable non-disclosure or assignment of inventions provisions, disputes may arise as to the ownership of or rights to use such technology, which may not be resolved in the Company's favor. The risk that other parties may breach confidentiality or other agreements could harm the Company by enabling the Company's competitors and other entities, who may have greater experience and financial resources, to copy or use the Company's proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies.. The Company's brands are subject to reputational risks.. The Company's brands and its reputation are among its most important assets. The Company's ability to attract and retain customers depends, in part, upon the external perceptions of the Company, the quality of its products and its corporate and management integrity. The consumer goods industry is by its nature more prone to reputational risks than other industries. This has been compounded in recent years by the free flow of unverified information on the Internet and, in particular, on social media. Damage to the Company's brands or reputation or negative publicity or perceptions about the Company could adversely affect its business.. Operational and regulatory risks. Interruptions in the Company's operations caused by outside forces could cause material losses.. The Company's worldwide operations could be subject to natural and man-made disasters, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, conflicts, acts of terrorism, health epidemics and other business interruptions. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm the Company's business, revenue and financial condition and increase the Company's costs and expenses. If the Company's or its manufacturers' warehousing facilities or transportation facilities are damaged or destroyed, the Company would be unable to distribute products on a timely basis, which could harm the Company's business. The Company's back-up operations may be inadequate, and the Company's business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate for any losses that may occur.. In September 2017, manufacturing of sterling silver products at the Company's leased manufacturing facility in San Germn, Puerto Rico was temporarily halted due to Hurricane Maria. The hurricane did not cause significant asset damage at the facility, however the interruption in manufacturing resulted in an increase in certain fixed overhead costs during the year ended December 31, 2017. Manufacturing at the facility resumed during the fourth quarter. The interruption and the recovery efforts did not materially impact the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2017.. 20. Table of Contents. The Company's international operations present special challenges that the Company may not be able to meet, and this could materially and adversely affect the Company's financial results.. The Company conducts business outside of the United States through subsidiaries, affiliates and joint ventures. These entities have operations and assets in the United Kingdom, Mexico, Canada, China and Hong Kong. Therefore, the Company is subject to increases and decreases in its investments in these entities resulting from the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These entities also bear risks similar to those risks faced by the Company. However, there are specific additional risks related to these organizations, such as the failure of the Company's partners or other investors to meet their obligations and higher credit and liquidity risks related to thinly capitalized entities. Failure of these entities or the Company's vendors to adhere to required regulatory or other standards, including social compliance standards, could materially and adversely impact the Company's reputation and business.. In addition, the Company sells its products in foreign countries and seeks to increase its level of international business activity. Accordingly, the Company is subject to various risks, including:. <U+0095>   U.S.-imposed embargoes of sales to specific countries;. <U+0095>   foreign import controls (which may be arbitrarily imposed or enforced);. <U+0095>   import regulations and duties;. <U+0095>   export regulations (which require the Company to comply with stringent licensing regimes);. <U+0095>   anti-dumping regulations;. <U+0095>   price and currency controls;. <U+0095>   exchange rate fluctuations;. <U+0095>   dividend remittance restrictions;. <U+0095>   expropriation of assets;. <U+0095>   war, civil uprisings and riots;. <U+0095>   government instability;. <U+0095>   the necessity of obtaining governmental approval for new and continuing products and operations;. <U+0095>   legal systems or decrees, laws, taxes, regulations, interpretations and court decisions that are not always fully developed and that may be retroactively or arbitrarily applied;. <U+0095>   unanticipated income taxes, excise duties, import taxes, export taxes or other governmental assessments; and. <U+0095>   difficulties in managing a global enterprise.. Any significant violations of these regulations could result in civil or criminal sanctions or the loss of export or other licenses, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Company's organizational structure may limit its ability to transfer funds between countries, particularly into and out of the United States, without incurring adverse tax consequences. Any of these events could result in a loss of business or other unexpected costs that could reduce sales or profits and have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 21. Table of Contents. The Company operates in a regulated environment that imposes significant compliance requirements. Non-compliance with these requirements could subject the Company to sanctions and materially adversely affect the Company's business.. The Company is subject in the ordinary course of its business, in the United States and elsewhere, to many statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations that, if violated by the Company or its affiliates, partners or vendors, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. The Company is required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\"), the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery, anti-corruption and anti-kickback laws adopted in many of the countries in which the Company does business which prohibit the Company from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business and also require maintenance of adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately reflect transactions. Under the FCPA, companies operating in the United States may be held liable for actions taken by their strategic or local partners or representatives. The U.K. Bribery Act is broader in scope than the FCPA in that it directly addresses commercial bribery in addition to bribery of government officials and it does not recognize certain exceptions, notably facilitation payments that are permitted by the FCPA. Civil and criminal penalties may be imposed for violations of these laws. In many of the countries in which the Company operates, particularly those with developing economies, it is or has been common for government officials and businesses to engage in business practices that are prohibited by these laws. If the Company does not properly implement and maintain practices and controls with respect to compliance with applicable anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws, or if the Company fails to enforce those practices and controls properly, the Company may be subject to regulatory sanctions, including administrative costs related to governmental and internal investigations, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions and restrictions on the Company's business and capital raising activities, any of which could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company's employees, distributors, dealers and other agents could engage in conduct that is not in compliance with such laws for which the Company might be held responsible. If the Company's employees, distributors, dealers or other agents are found to have engaged in illegal practices, the Company could suffer substantial penalties and the reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition of the Company could be materially adversely affected.. The Company is additionally subject to general business laws and regulations, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of Internet or other online services and thereby adversely impact the Company's sales. These laws and regulations may cover taxation, user privacy, data security, pricing, content, proprietary rights, advertising, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear in certain cases how existing laws and regulations governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolutions of these issues would harm the Company's business, diminish the demand for the Company's products on the Internet and increase the Company's cost of doing business.. A failure in the Company's operating systems or infrastructure or those of third parties could disrupt the Company's business and cause losses.. The Company relies on many information technology systems for the operation of its principal business functions, including, but not limited to, the Company's enterprise resource planning, warehouse management, inventory forecast and ordering and call center systems. In the case of the Company's inventory forecast and ordering system, most of the Company's orders are received directly through electronic connections with the Company's largest customers. Additionally, the success of certain product categories in a competitive marketplace is dependent upon the creation and launch of new, innovative products. Accordingly, to keep pace within a competitive retail environment, the Company uses and will continue to evaluate new technologies to improve the efficiency of designing new innovative products. The failure of any of these systems or technologies could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.. The Company is subject to cyber security risks and may incur increasing costs in efforts to minimize those risks and to comply with regulatory standards.. The Company employs information technology systems and Internet systems, including websites, which allow for the secure storage and transmission of proprietary or confidential information regarding the Company's customers, employees and others, including credit card information and personal identification information. The Company has made significant efforts to secure its computer network to mitigate the risk of possible cyber-attacks and is continuously working to upgrade its existing information technology systems and provide employee awareness training around phishing, malware, and other cyber risks to ensure that the Company is protected, to the greatest extent possible, against cyber risks and security breaches. Despite these efforts security of the Company's computer networks could be compromised which could impact operations and confidential information could be misappropriated, which could lead to negative publicity, loss of sales and profits or cause the Company to incur significant costs to reimburse third-parties for damages which could adversely impact profits.. 22. Table of Contents. Additionally, the Company must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect businesses and personal data, including the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\"), a comprehensive European Union privacy and data protection reform effective in 2018. GDPR, which applies to companies that are organized in the European Union (or otherwise provide services to consumers who reside in the European Union), imposes strict standards regarding the sharing, storage, use, disclosure and protection of end user data and significant penalties (monetary and otherwise) for non-compliance. Any failure to comply with GDPR, or other regulatory standards, could subject the Company to legal and reputational risks. Misuse of or failure to secure personal information could also result in violation of data privacy laws and regulations, proceedings against the Company by governmental entities or others, damage to the Company's reputation and credibility, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.. The Company will be subject to additional laws and regulations governing the Internet and e-commerce due to Taylor's strong online presence and may be subject to future laws and regulations governing the Internet and e-commerce, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations.. The Company will be subject to additional laws and regulations governing the Internet and e-commerce due to Taylor's substantial online presence. These existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolutions of these issues would harm the Company's business. This could, in turn, diminish the demand for the Company's products on the Internet and increase the cost of doing business.. The Company sells consumer products which involve an inherent risk of product liability claims.. The marketing of certain of the Company's consumer products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims or recalls or other regulatory or enforcement actions initiated by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, by the Office of Fair Trading in the U.K., by other regulatory authorities or through private causes of action and the Company has had in the past, and may have in the future, recalls (both voluntary and involuntary) of its products. Any defects in products the Company markets could harm the Company's reputation, adversely affect its relationship with its customers and decrease market acceptance of the Company's products and the strength of the brand names under which the Company markets such products. Potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of the Company's insurance coverage (which is subject to self-insured retention amounts) and could materially damage the Company's business and its financial condition. Additionally, the Company's product standards could be impacted by new or revised environmental rules and regulations or other social initiatives.. The Company may incur material costs due to environmental liabilities.. The Company is subject to a broad range of federal, state, local, foreign and multi-national laws and regulations relating to the environment. These include laws and regulations that govern:. <U+0095>   discharges to the air, water and land;. <U+0095>   the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes; and. <U+0095>   remediation of contamination associated with release of hazardous substances at the Company's facilities and at off-site disposal locations.. The Company may incur material costs to comply with increasingly stringent environmental laws and enforcement policies. Moreover, there are proposed international accords and treaties, as well as federal, state and local laws and regulations, which would attempt to control or limit the causes of climate change, including the effect of greenhouse gas emissions on the environment. In the event that the U.S. government or foreign governments enact new climate change laws or regulations or make changes to existing laws or regulations, compliance with applicable laws or regulations may result in increased manufacturing costs for the Company's products, such as by requiring investment in new pollution control equipment or changing the ways in which certain of the Company's products are made. The Company may incur some of these costs directly and others may be passed on to the Company from its third-party suppliers. Although the. 23. Table of Contents. Company believes that it is substantially in compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations at its facilities, the Company may not always be in compliance with such laws and regulations or any new laws and regulations in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Wallace Silversmiths de Puerto Rico, Ltd. (\"WSPR\"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, operates a manufacturing facility in San Germn, Puerto Rico that is leased from the Puerto Rico Industrial Development Company (\"PRIDCO\"). In March 2008, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (the \"EPA\") announced that the San Germn Ground Water Contamination site in Puerto Rico (the \"Site\") had been added to the Superfund National Priorities List due to contamination present in the local drinking water supply.. In May 2008, WSPR received from the EPA a Notice of Potential Liability and Request for Information Pursuant to 42 U.S.C. Sections 9607(a) and 9604(e) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (\"CERCLA\"). WSPR has cooperated with the EPA in their investigation. In August 2015, the EPA released its remedial investigation and feasibility study (\"RI/FS\") for the Site. In December 2015, the EPA issued its Record of Decision (\"ROD\") for OU-1, selecting a dual phase removal remedy to deal with soil contamination. The EPA's selected remedy consists of soil vapor extraction and dual-phase extraction/in-situ treatment. The EPA also designated a second operable unit under which the EPA will conduct further investigations to determine the nature and extent of groundwater contamination, as well as a determination by the EPA on the necessity of any further response actions to address groundwater contamination. It is not possible at this time for the Company to estimate its share of liability, if any, related to this matter. However, in the event of one or more adverse determinations related to this matter, it is possible that the ultimate liability resulting from this matter and the impact on the Company's results of operations could be material.. If previously unknown contamination of property underlying or in the vicinity of the Company's manufacturing facility or other properties that are currently or have formerly been owned, operated or used by the Company is discovered, the Company could be required to incur material unforeseen expenses. If this occurs, it may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company may not be able to adequately address the additional review and disclosure required in respect of \"Conflict Minerals.\". The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains regulations concerning the supply of conflict minerals originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. As a result, the SEC adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies that use such conflict minerals in the products they manufacture or contract to manufacture. These requirements require ongoing due diligence efforts and there are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including the costs of investigations to determine the sources of raw materials used in the Company's products and the costs of any changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of the results of such investigations. These rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in the Company's products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering these conflict minerals from \"conflict free\" sources, the Company cannot ensure that it will be able to obtain necessary materials from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, the Company may face reputational challenges if it determines that certain of its products contain conflict minerals not determined to be \"conflict free\" or if it is unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in its products through the procedures the Company has implemented and may implement in the future.. The Company's executives and other key employees are critical to the Company's success. The loss of and failure to attract and maintain its highly skilled employees could adversely affect the Company's business.. The Company's success depends, in part, on the efforts and skills of its executives and other key employees. The Company's key employees are experienced and highly qualified in the housewares industry. The loss of any of the Company's executive officers or other key employees could harm the business and the Company's ability to timely achieve its strategic initiatives. The Company's success also depends, in part, on its ability to identify, hire and retain other skilled personnel. The Company's industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting among competitors for personnel with successful track records. The Company may not be able to attract and retain skilled personnel or may incur significant costs in order to do so.. 24. Table of Contents. Uncertainties associated with the acquisition of Taylor may cause a loss of management personnel and other key employees of Taylor or the Company which could adversely affect the Company's future business and operations following the acquisition.. The Company's success after the acquisition will depend in part upon its ability to retain key management personnel and other key employees of Taylor or the Company. Current and prospective employees of Taylor and the Company may experience uncertainty about their roles within the Company following the acquisition or other concerns regarding the Company's operations following the acquisition, any of which may have an adverse effect on the Company's ability to attract or retain key management and other key personnel. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to attract or retain key management personnel and other key employees following the acquisition to the same extent that the Company has previously been able to attract or retain such employees.. Governance risks related to the acquisition of Taylor. Pre-existing stockholders will have reduced ownership and voting interests after the acquisition.. The Company issued approximately 27% of its outstanding shares of common stock to Taylor Parent in the acquisition.. Upon the consummation of the acquisition, Taylor Parent became a stockholder of the Company. As a result, the percentage ownership of the Company held by each of the pre-existing stockholders is smaller than such stockholder's percentage ownership of the Company prior to the acquisition. The Company's pre-existing stockholders therefore, have proportionately less ownership and voting interests in the Company following the acquisition than they had before the acquisition.. Following the acquisition Taylor Parent has significant influence over the Company and its interests may conflict with the Company's or its stockholders in the future.. As a result of the issuance of common stock to Taylor Parent, Taylor Parent will have significant influence over the Company. Going forward, Taylor Parent's degree of control will depend on, among other things, its level of ownership of the Company's common stock and its ability to exercise certain rights under the terms of the stockholders agreement that the Company entered into with Taylor Parent in connection with the acquisition and merger agreement.. Under the stockholders agreement, for so long as Taylor Parent continues to beneficially own at least 50% of the shares it received at the consummation of the acquisition, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries may take any of the following actions without the approval of the directors designated by Taylor Parent, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld: (i) enter into any agreement for a transaction that would result in a change of control of the Company; (ii) consummate any transaction for the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets; (iii) file for reorganization pursuant to Chapter 11, or for liquidation pursuant to Chapter 7, of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code; (iv) liquidate or dissolve the business and affairs of the Company; (v) take any Board of Directors action to seek an amendment to the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or approve, or recommend that the Company's stockholders approve, an amendment to the Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws, except as required by Delaware Law (as defined in the merger agreement) or other applicable law and other than amendments that would not materially and disproportionately affect Taylor Parent; (vi) incur additional debt in excess of $100 million in the aggregate, subject to certain exceptions; (vii) acquire or dispose of assets or a business, in each case with an individual value in excess of $100 million; (viii) terminate the employment of the Chief Executive Officer, other than for cause (in which case the Company shall consult in good faith with Taylor Parent on a replacement Chief Executive Officer); or (ix) adopt a stockholder rights plan that does not exempt as \"grandfathered persons\" the stockholders party to the stockholders agreement and their affiliates from being deemed \"acquiring persons\" due to their beneficial ownership of the common stock of the Company upon the public announcement of adoption of such stockholder rights plan (it being understood that no such plan shall restrict any stockholder party to the Stockholders Agreement or its affiliates from acquiring, in the aggregate, common stock up to the level of their aggregate percentage beneficial ownership as of the public announcement of the adoption of such stockholder rights plan).. Accordingly, Taylor Parent's influence over the Company and the consequences of such control could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and business prospects and negatively impact the trading price of its common stock.. 25. Table of Contents. Changes in the Company's management team may adversely affect the Company's operations.. Upon the consummation of the acquisition, Robert B. Kay became the Company's new Chief Executive Officer. The Company's prior Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Siegel, remains with the Company in a new role as the Executive Chairman of the Board. Other members of Taylor's senior management became officers of the Company, as well. The Company may encounter challenges with the integration of new members of its management team. Although many of the new members of the Company's management team have substantial experience managing companies in its industry, they lack experience managing public companies or companies of the size and scope of the Company. The Company cannot assure you that they will not require significant time to learn the Company's business and become familiar with various aspects of its operations. The devotion of a significant portion of their time to the integration of the Company's businesses and their lack of experience may adversely affect the Company's operations.. The acquisition resulted in changes to the Company's Board of Directors that may affect the strategy and operations of the Company as compared to that of the Company and Taylor on a stand-alone basis.. Upon consummation of the acquisition, the composition of the Company's Board of Directors changed. Following the consummation of the acquisition, the Company's Board of Directors increased from 10 to 13 directors and Robert B. Kay and two new directors designated for appointment to the Board of Directors by Taylor Parent, Bruce Pollack and Michael Schnabel, became members of the Board of Directors. This new composition of the Board of Directors may affect the Company's business strategy and operating decisions following consummation of the acquisition. In addition, there can be no assurances that the new Board of Directors will function effectively as a team and that there will not be any adverse effects on the business as a result.. 26. Table of Contents"
