[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our shares of common stock involves significant risks, including the potential loss of all or part of your investment. These risks could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. You should carefully consider all of the risks described in this Annual Report, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, before you make an investment in our common stock. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. Some of these important factors, but not necessarily all important factors include the following:. Risks Relating to Our Business. If we are unable to access additional capital, it could negatively impact our production, our income and ultimately our ability to retain our leases.. Our principal sources of liquidity historically have been equity contributions, borrowings under our credit facilities, net cash provided by operating activities, and net proceeds from the issuance of Series A preferred, Series B preferred and Series C preferred shares. Our capital program may require additional financing above the level of cash generated by our operations to fund growth. If our expected cash flow from operations decreases as a result of lower commodity prices or otherwise, our ability to expend the capital necessary to replace our proved reserves, maintain our leasehold acreage or maintain production may be limited, resulting in decreased production and proved reserves over time.. We plan to finance our capital expenditures with cash on hand, cash flow from operations and future issuances of debt and/or equity securities. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital is subject to a number of factors, including:. ·our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves;. ·the amount of oil and natural gas we produce from existing wells;. ·the prices at which we sell our production;. ·the costs of developing and producing our oil and natural gas reserves;. ·our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves;. ·the ability and willingness of banks to lend to us; and. ·our ability to access the equity and debt capital markets.. Our operations and other capital resources may not provide cash in sufficient amounts to maintain planned or future levels of capital expenditures. Further, our actual capital expenditures in 2018 could exceed our capital expenditure budget. In the event our capital expenditure requirements at any time are greater than the amount of capital we have available, we could be required to seek additional sources of capital, which may include refinancing existing debt, joint venture partnerships, production payment financings, offerings of debt or equity securities or other means. We may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable, or at all.. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices are highly volatile. If commodity prices experience substantial decline, our operations, financial condition, and level of expenditures for the development of our oil, natural gas and NGL reserves may be materially and adversely affected.. The prices we receive for our oil, natural gas, and NGL production heavily influence our revenue, operating results, profitability, access to capital, future rate of growth and carrying value of our properties. Oil, natural gas, and NGLs are commodities, and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand.. Historically, the commodities markets have been volatile, and these markets will likely continue to be volatile in the future. If the prices of oil, natural gas, and NGLs experience a substantial decline, our operations, financial condition and level of expenditures for the development of our oil, natural gas and NGL reserves may be materially and adversely affected. The prices we receive for our production, and the levels of our production, depend on numerous factors beyond our control and include the following:. ·changes in global supply and demand for oil and natural gas;. ·the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC;. ·the price and quantity of imports of foreign oil and natural gas;. ·political conditions, including embargoes, in or affecting other oil-producing activity;. ·the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production activity;. ·the level of global oil and natural gas inventories;. 19. ·weather conditions;. ·technological advances affecting energy consumption; and. ·the price and availability of alternative fuels.. Volatile oil and natural gas prices make it difficult to estimate the value of producing properties for acquisition and often cause disruption in the market for oil and natural gas producing properties, as buyers and sellers have difficulty agreeing on such value. Price volatility also makes it difficult to budget for and project the return on acquisitions and development and exploitation projects.. Our revenues, operating results, profitability and future rate of growth depend primarily upon the prices we receive for oil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas that we sell. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. In addition, we may need to record asset carrying value write-downs if prices fall. A significant decline in the prices of natural gas or oil could adversely affect our financial position, financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to grow.. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness.. We entered into the First Lien Credit Agreement in 2016, the Second Lien Credit Agreement in 2017 and the Riverstone First Lien Credit Agreement in 2018 (as such terms are hereinafter defined and as described in more detail herein). As of December 31, 2017, $30.8 million was outstanding under our First Lien Credit Agreement (which was subsequently paid off with loan proceeds of the Riverstone First Lien Credit Agreement) and $155.8 million was outstanding on under our Second Lien Credit Agreement.. If we further utilize our credit facilities in the future or obtain additional financing, our level of indebtedness could affect our operations in several ways, including the following:. ·it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, further exploration, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes;. ·a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;. ·the debt service requirements of other indebtedness in the future could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations;. ·we could be vulnerable to any downturn in general economic conditions and in our business, and we could be unable to carry out capital spending and exploration activities that are currently planned; and. ·we may from time to time be out of compliance with covenants under our debt agreements, which will require us to seek waivers from our lenders, which may be difficult to obtain.. We may incur additional debt, including secured indebtedness, or issue preferred stock in order to maintain adequate liquidity and develop and acquire properties to the extent desired. A higher level of indebtedness and/or preferred stock increases the risk that we may default on our obligations.. The Riverstone First Lien Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement, guaranteed and further secured by substantially all our assets, contain restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to respond to changes in market conditions or pursue business opportunities.. Our Riverstone First Lien Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things:. ·incur additional indebtedness;. ·create additional liens;. ·sell certain of our assets;. ·merge or consolidate with another entity;. ·pay dividends or make other distributions;. ·engage in transactions with affiliates; and. ·enter into certain swap agreements.. The requirement that we comply with these provisions may materially adversely affect our ability to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities we believe to be desirable, obtain future financing, fund needed capital expenditures or withstand a continuing or future downturn in our business.. 20. We may from time to time enter into alternative or additional debt agreements that contain covenant restrictions that may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, may require us to sell assets or take other actions to reduce indebtedness to meet such covenants, and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted.. Värde Partners, Inc. and its affiliates (collectively, “Värde”) beneficially own a significant portion of our common stock. Värde is not limited in their ability to compete with us, and the waiver of the corporate opportunity provisions in the certificate of designation relating to our Series C Preferred Stock, may allow Värde to benefit from corporate opportunities that might otherwise be available to us. As a result, conflicts of interest could arise in the future between us and Värde, including their portfolio companies concerning conflicts over our operations or business opportunities.. Värde is a family of private investment funds that beneficially owns a significant portion of our common stock as a result of the conversion rights available to them under the Second Lien Credit Agreement and the Series C Preferred Stock (as hereinafter defined and described), and it has investments in other companies in the energy industry. The Series C Preferred Stock was issued on January 30, 2018. As a result, Värde may, from time to time, acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with our business, as well as businesses that are our customers or suppliers. As such, Värde or its portfolio companies may acquire or seek to acquire the same assets that we seek to acquire and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us or may be more expensive for us to pursue. Any actual or perceived conflicts of interest with respect to the foregoing could have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock.. The certificate of designation governing the preferences, rights and limitations of the Series C Preferred Stock, provides that Värde (including portfolio investments of Värde) is not restricted from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. In particular, subject to the limitations of applicable law, if Värde, or any agent, shareholder, member, partner, director, officer, employee, investment manager or investment advisor of Värde who is also one of our directors or officers, becomes aware of a potential business opportunity, transaction or other matter, they will have no duty to communicate or offer that opportunity to us.. Värde may become aware, from time to time, of certain business opportunities (such as acquisition opportunities) and may direct such opportunities to other businesses in which they have invested, in which case we may not become aware of or otherwise have the ability to pursue such opportunity. Furthermore, such businesses may choose to compete with us for these opportunities, possibly causing these opportunities to not be available to us or causing them to be more expensive for us to pursue. As a result, our renouncing our interest and expectancy in any business opportunity that may be from time to time presented to Värde could adversely impact our business or prospects if attractive business opportunities are procured by such parties for their own benefit rather than for ours.. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting may not detect errors or potential acts of fraud.. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls may not prevent all possible errors and fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system are being met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls are evaluated relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of our controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur without detection, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse effect on our stock price.. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement Section 404, our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, we are required to conduct an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on framework of internal control issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”). Because of its inherent limitations, internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. In addition, projections of any evaluation effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate.. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. During the audit of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2017, errors were identified in the Company’s computation of the full cost ceiling test limitation. For a discussion of our internal control over financial reporting and a description of the identified material weakness, see \"Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting\" included in Item 9A of this report.. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Further, the complexities of our quarter-end and year-end closing processes increase the risk that a weakness in internal controls over financial reporting may go undetected. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. We have identified remediation steps, including enhanced analytical analysis and improved management review of the full cost ceiling test calculation in order to remediate this material weakness. We plan to complete this remediation process as quickly as possible. However, if our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC and the NYSE, including a delisting from the NYSE, securities litigation, debt rating agency downgrades or rating withdrawals, any one of which could adversely affect the valuation of our common stock and could adversely affect our business prospects.. Decreases in oil and natural gas prices may require us to take write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties, potentially requiring earlier than anticipated debt repayment and negatively impacting the trading value of our securities.. Accounting rules require that we review periodically the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties for possible impairment through the performance of a ceiling test. Based on specific market factors and circumstances at the time of prospective impairment reviews, and the continuing evaluation of development plans, production data, economics and other factors, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties.. We perform the ceiling test at least quarterly and, in the event capitalized costs of the full cost pool exceed this ceiling, we would recognize an impairment expense. We recognized an impairment expense of approximately $10.5 million and approximately $4.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.. Future write-downs could occur for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to continued reductions in oil and natural gas prices that lower the estimate of future net revenues from proved oil and natural gas reserves, revisions to reserve estimates, or from the addition of non-productive capitalized costs to the full cost pool that do not result in corresponding increase in oil and natural gas reserves. Impairments of plugging and abandonment of wells in progress are other areas where costs may be capitalized into the full cost pool, without any corresponding increase in reserve values. As such, these situations could result in future additional impairment expenses. If commodity prices decline, we could incur full cost ceiling impairments in future quarters. Impairment charges would not affect cash flow from operating activities, but could have a material adverse effect our net income and stockholders’ equity.. 21. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves.. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. In order to prepare estimates, we must project production rates and the timing of development expenditures and analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Although the reserve information contained herein is reviewed by independent reserve engineers, estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise.. Further, the present value of future net cash flows from proved reserves may not be the current market value of estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we based the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves on the 12-month unweighted average of first-day-of-the-month oil and natural gas benchmark prices, adjusted for marketing and other differentials and costs in effect on the date of the estimate, holding the prices and costs constant throughout the life of the properties. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the net present value estimate, and future net present value estimates using then current prices and costs may be significantly less than the current estimate.. If our reserve estimates or the underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, it could have a negative impact on our earnings and net income, and most likely the trading price of our securities.. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains or result in losses.. In order to manage our exposure to price risks in the marketing of our oil and natural gas, from time to time, we may enter into derivative contracts that economically hedge our oil and gas price on a portion of our production. These contracts may limit our potential gains if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the contract. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which:. ·there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and actual prices received;. ·our production and/or sales of oil or natural gas are less than expected;. ·payments owed under derivative hedging contracts come due prior to receipt of the hedged month’s production revenue; or. ·the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations.. Hedging transactions we may enter into may not adequately protect us from declines in the prices of oil and natural gas. In addition, the counterparties under any future derivatives contracts may fail to fulfill their contractual obligations to us. As of December 31, 2017, we had hedging agreements in place on approximately 1,000 Bbl per day, or 83% of our expected production from proved developed producing reserves for the period from January 1, 2018 through June 30, 2018, as forecast under the reserve report prepared by our independent reserve engineers dated December 31, 2017.. Our identified drilling locations are scheduled to be drilled over a period of several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of our drilling.. Our management has specifically identified and scheduled drilling locations as an estimation of future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These scheduled drilling locations represent a significant component of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and natural gas prices, the availability of capital, costs, drilling results, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the potential drilling locations previously identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business.. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas is a speculative activity and involves numerous risks and substantial and uncertain costs that could adversely affect us.. Our success will depend on the success of our drilling program. There is no way to predict in advance of drilling and testing whether any particular prospect will yield oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to recover drilling or completion costs or to be economically viable. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in commercial quantities as such studies are merely an interpretive tool.. 22. Drilling for oil and natural gas involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive natural gas or oil reservoirs will be discovered. The cost of drilling, completing, and operating wells is substantial and uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed, or canceled as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including:. ·unexpected or adverse drilling conditions;. ·elevated pressure or irregularities in geologic formations;. ·equipment failures or accidents;. ·adverse weather conditions;. ·compliance with governmental requirements; and. ·shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs, crews, and equipment.. Additionally, the budgeted costs of planning, drilling, completing and operating wells are often exceeded and such costs can increase significantly due to various complications that may arise during the drilling and operating processes. Before a well is spud, we may incur significant geological and geophysical (seismic) costs, which are incurred whether a well eventually produces commercial quantities of hydrocarbons, or is drilled at all. Exploration wells endure a much greater risk of loss than development wells. If actual drilling and development costs are significantly more than the current estimated costs, we may not be able to continue operations as proposed and could be forced to modify drilling plans accordingly.. If we decide to drill a certain location, there is a risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be found or produced, or we may drill or participate in new wells that are not productive or drill wells that are productive, but that do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. A productive well may become uneconomical if water or other deleterious substances are encountered which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or natural gas from the well. Unsuccessful drilling activities could result in a significant decline in production and revenues and materially harm operations and financial condition by reducing available cash and resources.. Financial difficulties encountered by our oil and natural gas purchasers, third party operators or other third parties could decrease cash flow from operations and adversely affect our exploration and development activities.. We derive essentially all of our revenues from the sale of our oil, natural gas and NGLs to unaffiliated third party purchasers, independent marketing companies and mid-stream companies. Any delays in payments from such purchasers caused by financial problems encountered by them will have an immediate negative effect on our results of operations and cash flows.. Additionally, liquidity and cash flow problems encountered by our working interest co-owners or the third-party operators of our non-operated properties may prevent or delay the drilling of a well or the development of a project. Our working interest co-owners may be unwilling or unable to pay their share of the costs of projects as they become due. In the case of a working interest owner, we could be required to pay the working interest owner’s share of the project costs.. Our industry is highly competitive, which may adversely affect our operations and performance.. We operate in a highly competitive environment. In addition to capital, the principle resources necessary for the exploration and production of oil and natural gas include: leasehold prospects under which oil and natural gas reserves may be discovered; drilling rigs and related equipment to explore for such reserves; and knowledgeable personnel to conduct all phases of oil and natural gas operations. We must compete for such resources with both major oil and natural gas companies and independent operators.. Many of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. Such capital, materials and resources may not be available when needed. If we are unable to access capital, material and resources when needed, we risk suffering numerous consequences, including, the breach of our obligations under the oil and natural gas leases by which we hold our prospects and the potential loss of those leasehold interests; loss of reputation in the oil and gas community; inability to retain personnel or attract capital, a slowdown in our operations and decline in revenue; and a decline in the market price of our common stock.. Properties that we acquire may not produce oil or natural gas as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against them, which could cause us to incur losses.. One of our growth strategies is to pursue selective acquisitions of undeveloped acreage potentially containing oil and natural gas reserves. If we choose to pursue an acquisition, we will perform a review of the target properties. However, these reviews are inherently incomplete as they are based on the quality, availability and interpretation of the reviewed data and the acumen and the assumptions of the evaluation personnel. Generally, it is not feasible to review in depth every individual property, well, facility and/or file involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. We may not perform an inspection on every well, and environmental problems, such as groundwater contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, we may not be able to obtain effective contractual protection against all or part of those problems, and we may assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with the acquired properties. If we acquire properties with risks or liabilities that were unknown or not assessed correctly, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected as claims are settled and cleanup costs related to these liabilities are incurred.. 23. We may incur losses or costs as a result of title deficiencies in the properties in which we invest.. If an examination of the title history of a property that we purchased reveals an oil and natural gas lease has been purchased in error from a person who is not the owner of the mineral interest desired, our interest would be worthless. In such an instance, the amount paid for such oil and natural gas lease as well as any royalties paid pursuant to the terms of the lease prior to the discovery of the title defect would be lost.. Prior to the drilling of an oil and natural gas well, however, it is the normal practice in the oil and natural gas industry for the operator of the well to obtain a preliminary title review of the spacing unit within which the proposed oil and natural gas well is to be drilled to ensure there are no obvious deficiencies in title to the well. Frequently, as a result of such examinations, certain curative work must be done to correct deficiencies in the marketability of the title, and such curative work entails expense. Failure to cure any title defects may adversely impact our ability in the future to increase production and reserves. In the future, we may suffer a monetary loss from title defects or title failure. Additionally, unproved and unevaluated acreage has greater risk of title defects than developed acreage. If there are any title defects or defects in assignment of leasehold rights in properties in which we hold an interest, we will suffer a financial loss which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our producing properties are located in the Delaware Basin, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area.. All of our estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2017, were located in the Delaware Basin in Winkler, Loving, and Reeves Counties, Texas and Lea County, New Mexico. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these wells caused by transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production, availability of equipment, facilities, personnel or services, significant governmental regulation, natural disasters, adverse weather conditions, plant closures for scheduled maintenance or interruption of transportation of oil or natural gas produced from the wells in this area.. In addition, the effect of fluctuations on supply and demand may become more pronounced within specific geographic oil and natural gas producing areas, which may cause these conditions to occur with greater frequency or magnify the effect of these conditions. Due to the concentrated nature of our portfolio of properties, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of properties. Such delays or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be the operator on all of our drilling locations, and, therefore, we will not be able to control the timing of exploration or development efforts, associated costs, or the rate of production of any non-operated assets.. Currently, we are the operator of approximately 90% of our acreage. As we carry out our exploration and development programs, we may enter into arrangements with respect to existing or future drilling locations that result in wells being operated by others. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of the drilling locations operated by our partners. Dependence on the operator could prevent us from realizing target returns for those locations. The success and timing of exploration and development activities operated by our partners will depend on a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including:. ·the timing and amount of capital expenditures;. ·the operator’s expertise and financial resources;. ·approval of other participants in drilling wells;. ·selection of technology; and. ·the rate of production of reserves, if any.. Our limited ability to exercise control over the operations of any drilling locations operated by other operators may cause a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial condition.. 24. The marketability of our production is dependent upon transportation and processing facilities and third parties over which or whom we may have no control.. The marketability of our production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, natural gas gathering systems, rail service, and processing facilities in addition to competing oil and natural gas production available to third-party purchasers. We deliver our produced crude oil and natural gas through trucking, gathering systems and pipelines, some of which we do not own. The lack of availability of capacity on third-party systems and facilities could reduce the price offered for our production or result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of our development plans. Although we have some contractual control over the transportation of our production through firm transportation arrangements, third-party systems and facilities may be temporarily unavailable due to market conditions, mechanical reliability or other reasons, including adverse weather conditions or work-loads. Any significant change in market factors or other conditions affecting these infrastructure systems and facilities, as well as any delays in constructing new infrastructure systems and facilities, could delay production, thereby harming our business and, in turn, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.. On August 10, 2017, we entered into a long-term agreement with Lucid relating to gas gathering, processing and associated services to support our drilling program. Pursuant to the agreement, Lucid will receive, gather and process our gas production from certain production areas located in Lea County, New Mexico and in Loving and Winkler Counties, Texas. The agreement secures incremental midstream capacity for us in the production areas committed to the new agreement. We commenced services with Lucid on our New Mexico properties in November 2017 and expect to commence services on our Texas properties in early 2018.. The shut-in of our wells could negatively impact our production, liquidity, and, ultimately, our operations, results, and performance.. Our production depends, in part, upon our wells that are capable of commercial production not being shut-in (i.e., suspended from production). The lack of availability of capacity on third-party systems and facilities (see \"Risk Factors-Risks Relating to Our Business-The marketability of our production is dependent upon transportation and processing facilities and third parties over which or whom we may have no control.”) or the shut-in of an oil field’s production, among other reasons, could result in the shut-in of our wells. As of December 31, 2017, we had 3 gross (2.60 net) wells shut in awaiting infrastructure.. If we experience low oil production volumes due to the shut-in of our wells, we would experience a reduction in our available liquidity and we may not have the ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations and, therefore, sufficient liquidity to meet our anticipated working capital, debt service, and other liquidity needs. A significant decline in oil production due to the shut-in of our wells could adversely affect our financial position, financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to grow.. Unless we find new oil and natural gas reserves to replace actual production, our reserves and production will decline, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Producing oil and natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates and depletion that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics subsurface and surface pressures and other factors. Thus, our future oil and natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and revenue are highly dependent on our success in efficiently obtaining additional reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire reserves to replace our current and future production at costs or other terms acceptable to us, or at all, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected.. The results of our planned exploratory and development drilling are subject to drilling and completion execution risks, and drilling results may not meet our economic expectations for reserves or production.. Unconventional operations involve utilizing drilling and completion techniques as developed by us and our service providers. Risks that we face while drilling include, but are not limited to, not reaching the desired objective due to drilling problems, not landing our wellbore in the desired drilling zone or specific target, staying in the desired drilling zone while drilling horizontally through the formation, running our casing the entire length of the wellbore and being able to run tools and other equipment consistently through the horizontal wellbore. Risks that we face while completing our wells include, but are not limited to, mechanical integrity, being able to hydraulic fracture stimulate the planned number of stages, being able to run tools the entire length of the wellbore during completion operations, proper design and engineering versus reservoir parameters, and successfully cleaning out the wellbore after completion of the final fracture stimulation stage.. Our experience with horizontal well applications utilizing the latest drilling and completion techniques specifically in the formations where we are currently operating is limited; however, we contract with local experts in the area to design, plan and conduct our drilling and completion operations. Ultimately, the success of these drilling and completion techniques can only be developed over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are established. If our drilling results are less than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, access to gathering systems and limited takeaway capacity or otherwise, the return on our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate and we could incur material write-downs of undeveloped properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future.. 25. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment supplies, or personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans.. The oil and gas industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there are shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs of and demand for rigs, equipment and supplies may increase substantially and their availability may be limited. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified personnel, including drilling rig crews, may rise as the number of rigs in service increases. The higher prices of oil and natural gas during the last several years have increased activity which has resulted in shortages of drilling rigs, equipment and personnel, which have resulted in increased costs and delays in the areas where we operate. If drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel are unavailable to us due to excessive costs or demand or otherwise, our ability to execute our exploration and development plans could be materially and adversely affected and, as a result, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Terrorist attacks aimed at energy operations could adversely affect our business.. The continued threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other government action have led and may lead to further increased volatility in prices for oil and natural gas and could affect these commodity markets or the financial markets used by us. In addition, the U.S. government has issued warnings that energy assets may be a future target of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected oil and natural gas operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack on our facilities, customer facilities, the infrastructure depended upon for transportation of products, and, in some cases, those of other energy companies, could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are exposed to operating hazards and uninsured risks.. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities are subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including the risk of:. ·fire, explosions and blowouts;. ·negligence of personnel;. ·inclement weather;. ·pipe or equipment failure;. ·     abnormally pressured formations;. ·     environmental accidents such as oil spills; and. ·     natural gas environment (including groundwater contamination).. Oil and natural gas operations are subject to particular hazards incident to the drilling and production of oil and natural gas, such as blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids, fires and pollution and other environmental risks. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operation.. These events may result in substantial losses to our company from:. ·injury or loss of life;. ·significantly increased costs;. ·severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;. ·pollution or other environmental damage;. ·clean-up responsibilities;. ·regulatory investigation;. ·penalties and suspension of operations; or. ·attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation.. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover these losses or liabilities. We do not carry business interruption insurance. We may elect not to carry insurance if management believes that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In addition, we cannot insure fully against pollution and environmental risks. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The impact of natural disasters or weather events in the areas where we operate has resulted in escalating insurance costs and less favorable coverage terms. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or underinsured events may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations, including the loss of our total investment in a particular prospect.. The producing wells in which we have an interest occasionally experience reduced or terminated production. These curtailments can result from mechanical failures, contract terms, pipeline and processing plant interruptions, market conditions, operator priorities, and weather conditions. These curtailments can last from a few days to many months, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. 26. A failure of technology systems, data breach or cyberattack could materially affect our operations.. Information technology solution failures, network disruptions, breaches of data security and cyberattacks could disrupt our operations by causing delays or cancellation of customer orders, impeding processing of transactions and reporting financial results, resulting in the unintentional disclosure of customer, employee or our information, or damaging our reputation. A system failure, data security breach or cyberattack could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Our information technology systems may be vulnerable to security breaches beyond our control, including those involving cyberattacks using viruses, worms or other destructive software, process breakdowns, phishing or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing. Such breaches could result in unauthorized access to information, including customer, employee, or other company confidential data. We do not carry insurance against these risks, although we do invest in security technology, perform penetration tests from time to time, and design our business processes to attempt to mitigate the risk of such breaches. However, there can be no assurance that security breaches will not occur. Moreover, the development and maintenance of these measures requires continuous monitoring as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures evolve. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, cyber security threats and incidents, none of which has been material to us to date. However, a successful breach or attack could have a material negative impact on our operations or business reputation and subject us to consequences such as litigation and direct costs associated with incident response.. We may not be able to keep pace with technological developments in the industry.. The oil and natural gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage or competitive pressures may force us to implement those new technologies at substantial costs. In addition, other oil and natural gas companies may have greater financial, technical, and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we are in a position to do so. We may not be able to respond to these competitive pressures and implement new technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. If one or more of the technologies used now or in the future were to become obsolete or if we are unable to use the most advanced commercially available technology, the business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. We have limited management and staff and may be dependent upon partnering arrangements.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 27 full-time employees. We leverage the services of independent consultants and contractors to perform various professional services, including engineering, oil and natural gas well planning and supervision, and land, legal, environmental and tax services. We also pursue alliances with partners in the areas of geological and geophysical services and prospect generation, evaluation and prospect leasing.. Our dependence on third-party consultants and service providers creates a number of risks, including but not limited to, the possibility that such third parties may not be available to us as and when needed and the risk that we may not be able to properly control the timing and quality of work conducted with respect to our projects. If we experience significant delays in obtaining the services of such third parties or poor performance by such parties, our results of operations and stock price could be materially adversely affected.. Our business may suffer with the loss of key personnel.. We depend to a large extent on the services of certain key management personnel, including Ron Ormand, our Executive Chairman of the Board, James (Jim) Linville, our Chief Executive Officer, Joseph Daches, our Chief Financial Officer, and other executive officers and key employees. These individuals have extensive experience and expertise in evaluating and analyzing producing oil and natural gas properties and drilling prospects, maximizing production from oil and natural gas properties, marketing oil and natural gas production and developing and executing financing and hedging strategies. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on operations. We do not maintain key-man life insurance with respect to any of our employees. Our success will be dependent on our ability to continue to employ and retain skilled technical personnel.. We have an active board of directors that meets several times throughout the year and is intimately involved in the business and the determination of various operational strategies. Members of our board of directors work closely with management to identify potential prospects, acquisitions and areas for further development. If any directors resign or become unable to continue in their present role, it may be difficult to find replacements with the same knowledge and experience and as a result, operations may be adversely affected.. We may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions, and the integration of significant acquisitions may be difficult.. Our business strategy is based on our ability to acquire additional reserves, oil and natural gas properties, prospects and leaseholds. Significant acquisitions and other strategic transactions may involve other risks, including:. ·diversion of our management’s attention to evaluating, negotiating and integrating significant acquisitions and strategic transactions;. ·challenge and cost of integrating acquired operations, information management and other technology systems and business cultures with those of ours while carrying on our ongoing business;. ·difficulty associated with coordinating geographically separate organizations;. ·challenge of attracting and retaining capable personnel associated with acquired operations; and. ·failure to realize the full benefit that we expect in estimated proved reserves, production volume, cost savings from operating synergies or other benefits anticipated from an acquisition, or to realize these benefits within the expected time frame.. 27. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management and other staff may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business.  If our senior management and staff are not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer.. We may have difficulty managing growth in our business, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Significant growth in the size and scope of our operations could place a strain on our financial, technical, operational and management resources. The failure to continue to upgrade our technical, administrative, operating and financial staff and control systems or the occurrences of unexpected expansion difficulties, including the failure to recruit and retain experienced managers, geologists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and gas industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to timely execute our business plan.. We may face difficulties in securing and operating under authorizations and permits to drill, complete or operate our wells.. The continued growth in oil and natural gas exploration in the United States has drawn intense scrutiny from environmental and community interest groups, regulatory agencies and other governmental entities. As a result, we may face significant opposition to, or increased regulation of, our operations, that may make it difficult or impossible to obtain permits and other needed authorizations to drill, complete or operate, result in operational delays, or otherwise make oil and natural gas exploration more costly or difficult than in other countries.. Our operations are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on our ability to obtain water may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Water is an essential component of deep shale oil and natural gas production during both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Historically, we have been able to purchase water from local land owners for use in our operations. However, Texas has endured severe drought conditions over the past several years. These drought conditions have led governmental authorities to restrict the use of water subject to their jurisdiction for hydraulic fracturing to protect local water supplies. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations from local sources, we may be unable to produce oil and natural gas economically, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Risks Relating to the Oil and Natural Gas Industry. Legislative and regulatory initiatives related to global warming and climate change could have an adverse effect on our operations and the demand for oil and natural gas.. In December 2009, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA, under the Clean Air Act, has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of greenhouse gases. Relatively recently, the EPA adopted two sets of rules regulating greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of greenhouse gases from certain large stationary sources. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States on an annual basis, including petroleum refineries, as well as certain onshore oil and natural gas production facilities.. Also, on May 12, 2016, EPA issued regulations (effective August 2, 2016) that build on the 40 C.F.R. Part 60, Subpart OOOO (NSPS OOOO) standards by directly regulating methane and VOC emissions from various types of new and modified oil and natural gas sources. Some of those sources are already regulated under NSPS OOOO, while others, like hydraulically fractured oil wells, pneumatic pumps, and certain equipment and components at compressor stations, are covered for the first time. On March 10, 2016, moreover, the EPA announced that it is moving towards issuing performance standards for methane emissions from existing oil and natural gas sources. The agency said that it will “begin with a formal process (i.e, an Information Collection Request) to require companies operating existing oil and natural gas sources to provide information to assist in the development of comprehensive regulations to reduce methane emissions.” On November 10, 2016, the EPA issued the Information Collection Request (“ICR”) and explained that “[r]ecipients of the operator survey (also referred to as Part 1) will have 60 days after receiving the ICR to complete the survey and submit it to EPA. Recipients of the more detailed facility survey (also referred to as Part 2) will have 180 days after receiving the ICR to complete that survey and submit it to the agency.”. 28. In June 2014, the United States Supreme Court’s holding in Utility Air Regulatory Group v. EPA upheld a portion of EPA’s greenhouse gas (“GHG”) stationary source permitting program, but also invalidated a portion of it. The Court held that stationary sources already subject to the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) or Title V permitting programs for non-GHG criteria pollutants remain subject to GHG Best Available Control Technology and major source permitting requirements, but ruled that sources cannot be subject to the PSD or Title V major source permitting programs based solely on GHG emission levels. As a result, on August 12, 2015, the EPA eliminated from its PSD and Title V regulations the provisions that subjected sources to the PSD or Title V programs based solely on GHG emission levels. The EPA likewise said that it will “further revise the PSD and Title V regulations in a separate rulemaking to fully implement” the Utility Air Regulatory Group judgment. On October 3, 2016, EPA published a proposed rulemaking for that purpose. The Utility Air Regulatory Group judgment does not prevent states from considering and adopting state-only major source permitting requirements based solely on GHG emission levels.. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce GHG emissions and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce GHG emissions, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these GHG cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and natural gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall GHG emission reduction goal.. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil, natural gas and NGLs we produce. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHG in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of natural gas and/or oil from dense subsurface rock formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production by providing and linking up induced flow paths for the oil and/or natural gas contained in the rocks. We routinely use hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of our drilling and completion programs. The process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA, under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel.. In addition, on June 13, 2016, under the Clean Water Act, the EPA finalized a rule (effective August 29, 2016) that prohibits the discharge of oil and gas wastewaters to publicly-owned treatment works.. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. For example in May 2013, the RRC adopted new rules governing well casing, cementing and other standards for ensuring that hydraulic fracturing operations do not contaminate nearby water resources. Local government also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general or hydraulic fracturing in particular. We believe that we follow applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in our hydraulic fracturing activities. Nonetheless, if new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells.. While these state and local land use restrictions generally cover areas with little recent or ongoing oil and natural gas development, they could lead opponents of hydraulic fracturing to push for similar statewide regimes. If new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells.. 29. A number of federal agencies are analyzing, or have been requested to review, environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. The EPA, for example, recently completed a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater. In June of 2015, the EPA released an “external review draft” of the study and, in it, said that shale development had not led to “widespread, systemic” problems with groundwater. On August 11, 2016, however, the EPA Science Advisory Board issued comments on the external review draft, finding that “the EPA did not support quantitatively its conclusion about lack of evidence for widespread, systemic impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, and did not clearly describe the system(s) of interest (e.g., groundwater, surface water), the scale of impacts (i.e., local or regional), nor the definitions of ‘systemic’ and ‘widespread.’” In December of 2016, the EPA released the final version of the study, finding, among other things, that there are “certain conditions under which impacts from hydraulic fracturing activities can be more frequent or severe,” including “[i]njection of hydraulic fracturing fluids into wells with inadequate mechanical integrity, allowing gases or liquids to move to groundwater resources.” These types of studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or other regulatory mechanisms.. The EPA also issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking and undertook a public participation process under the Toxic Substances Control Act to seek comment on the information that should be reported or disclosed for hydraulic fracturing chemical substances and mixtures and the mechanisms for obtaining this information. Additionally, on January 7, 2015, several national environmental advocacy groups filed a lawsuit requesting that the EPA add the oil and natural gas extraction industry to the list of industries required to report releases of certain “toxic chemicals” under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act’s Toxics Release Inventory, or TRI, program. On October 22, 2015, the EPA took action on the Environmental Integrity Project’s October 24, 2012 petition to impose TRI reporting requirements on various oil and natural gas facilities. The EPA granted the petition in part, by agreeing to propose to add natural gas processing facilities to the scope of the TRI program, but rejected the rest of the petition. On December 15, 2015, in light of that decision, the environmental advocacy groups that had commenced the lawsuit opted to voluntarily dismiss it. On January 6, 2017, EPA issued a proposed rulemaking that would add natural gas processing facilities to the scope of the TRI program.. Current water regulation relating to hydraulic fracturing, particularly water source and groundwater regulation, could result in increased operational costs, operating restrictions and delays.. Hydraulic fracturing uses large amounts of water. It can require between three to five million gallons of water per horizontal well. We may face regulatory concerns in both the sourcing and the discharge of water used in hydraulic fracturing. In addition, hydraulic fracturing produces water discharges that must be treated and disposed of in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.. First, as to sourcing water for hydraulic fracturing, we will need to secure water from the local water supply or make alternative arrangements. In order to source water from the local water supply for hydraulic fracturing we may need to pay premium rates and be subject to a lower priority if the local area becomes subject to water restrictions. We may also seek water from alternative providers supporting the hydraulic fracturing industry. If we have an insufficient water supply, we will be unable to engage in hydraulic fracturing until such supply is located.. Second, hydraulic fracturing results in water discharges that must be treated and disposed of in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. Environmental regulations governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing may increase operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse effect on operations and financial performance. Our ability to remove and dispose of water will affect production, and the cost of water treatment and disposal may affect profitability. The imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could also include restrictions on our ability to conduct hydraulic fracturing or disposal of produced water, drilling fluids and other substances associated with the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas.. We are subject to numerous U.S. federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business.. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the exploration, production and sale of oil and natural gas, and operating safety. Future laws or regulations, any adverse change in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations or our failure to comply with existing legal requirements may result in substantial penalties and harm to our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to make large and unanticipated capital expenditures to comply with governmental regulations, such as:. ·land use restrictions;. ·lease permit restrictions;. ·drilling bonds and other financial responsibility requirements, such as plugging and abandonment bonds;. ·spacing of wells;. ·unitization and pooling of properties;. 30. ·safety precautions;. ·operational reporting; and. ·taxation.. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for:. ·personal injuries;. ·property and natural resource damages;. ·well reclamation cost; and. ·governmental sanctions, such as fines and penalties.. Our operations could be significantly delayed or curtailed and our cost of operations could significantly increase as a result of regulatory requirements or restrictions. It is also possible that a portion of our oil and natural gas properties could be subject to eminent domain proceedings or other government takings for which we may not be adequately compensated. See “Business-Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry” for a more detailed description of regulatory laws covering our business.. Our operations may incur substantial expenses and resulting liabilities from compliance with environmental laws and regulations.. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations:. ·require the acquisition of a permit before drilling or facility mobilization and commissioning, or injection or disposal commences;. ·restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production and processing activities, including environmental regulations governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells;. ·limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and. ·impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations.. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in:. ·the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties;. ·incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations; and. ·the imposition of injunctive relief.. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to reach and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our industry in general and on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Under these environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination or if our operations met previous standards in the industry at the time they were performed. Our permits require that we report any incidents that cause or could cause environmental damages. See “Business- Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry” for a more detailed description of the environmental laws covering our business.. Should we fail to comply with all applicable regulatory agency administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines.. Under the Domenici-Barton Energy Policy Act of 2005, the FERC has civil penalty authority under Natural Gas Act (the \"NGA\") to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our operations have not been regulated by FERC as a natural gas company under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional facilities to FERC annual reporting requirements. We also must comply with the anti-market manipulation rules enforced by FERC. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Additionally, the Federal Trade Commission has regulations intended to prohibit market manipulation in the petroleum industry with authority to fine violators of the regulations civil penalties of up to $1 million per day, and U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the \"CFTC\") prohibits market manipulation in the markets regulated by the CFTC, including similar anti-manipulation authority with respect to crude oil swaps and futures contracts as that granted to the CFTC with respect to crude oil purchases and sales. The CFTC rules subject violators to a civil penalty of up to the greater of $1 million or triple the monetary gain to the person for each violation. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability, as described in “Business-Regulation of the Oil and Natural Gas Industry.”. 31. Risks Relating to Our Securities. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which may depress the market price of our securities and result in substantial losses to investors if they are unable to sell their securities at or above their purchase price.. The market price of our securities may fluctuate substantially for the foreseeable future, primarily due to a number of factors, including:. ·our status as a company with a limited operating history and limited revenues to date, which may make risk-averse investors more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the shares of a seasoned issuer in the event of negative news or lack of progress;. ·announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our existing or future competitors;. ·the timing and development of our products;. ·general and industry-specific economic conditions;. ·actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;. ·liquidity;. ·actions by our stockholders;. ·changes in our cash flow from operations or earnings estimates;. ·changes in market valuations of similar companies;. ·our capital commitments; and. ·the loss of any of our key management personnel.. In addition, market prices of the securities of energy companies, particularly companies like ours without consistent revenues and earnings, have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future, some of which may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Additionally, the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of common stock into the market may also have a significant impact on the trading price of our common stock.. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies that experience high volatility in the market price of their securities. Whether or not meritorious, litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources and harm our financial condition and results of operations.. We may issue shares of our preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock.. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our stockholders. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of our common stock, in terms of dividends, liquidation rights and voting rights. We currently have one series of preferred stock issued and outstanding, which ranks senior to our common stock with respect to dividends and rights on the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, amongst other preferences and rights.. There may be future dilution of our common stock.. We have a significant amount of derivative securities outstanding, which upon exercise or conversion, would result in substantial dilution of our common stock. To the extent outstanding restricted stock units, warrants or options to purchase our common stock under our 2016 Omnibus Incentive Plan or our 2012 Equity Incentive Plan are exercised, the price vesting triggers under the performance shares granted to our executive officers are satisfied, or additional shares of restricted stock are issued to our employees, holders of our common stock will experience dilution. Furthermore, if we sell additional equity or convertible debt securities, such sales could result in further dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the price of our outstanding securities to decline.. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock.. We have never paid dividends with respect to our common stock, and we do not expect to pay any dividends, in cash or otherwise, in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any earnings for use in our business. In addition, our credit facilities and preferred stock prohibit us from paying any dividends. In the future, we may agree to further restrictions. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the appreciation of their stock.. 32. Securities analysts may not initiate coverage of our shares or may issue negative reports, which may adversely affect the trading price of the shares.. Securities analysts may not provide research reports on our Company. If securities analysts do not cover our Company, the lack of coverage may adversely affect the trading price of our shares. The trading market for our shares will rely in part on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us and our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover our Company downgrades our shares, the trading price of our shares may decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which, in turn, could also cause the trading price of our shares to decline. Further, because of our small market capitalization, it may be difficult for us to attract securities analysts to cover our Company, which could significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our shares.. Anti-takeover effects of certain provisions of Nevada state law hinder a potential takeover of our Company.. The existence of certain provisions under Nevada law could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Additionally, Nevada law imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock."
