[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in the Company’s common stock involves a number of risks. Realization of any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and/or future prospects.. The Company is subject to a Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve that restricts the conduct of the Company’s operations and may have a material adverse effect on its business.. In a Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, the Company made formal commitments in the agreement to use its financial and management resources to serve as a source of strength for the Bank and to assist the Bank in addressing weaknesses identified by the FDIC and the KDFI, to pay no dividends without prior written approval, to pay no interest or principal on subordinated debentures or trust preferred securities without written approval, and to submit an acceptable plan to maintain sufficient capital.. Bank regulatory agencies can exercise discretion when an institution does not meet minimum regulatory capital levels and the other terms of a consent order. The agencies may initiate changes in management, issue mandatory directives, impose monetary penalties or refrain from formal sanctions, depending on individual circumstances. Any action taken by regulatory agencies could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.. As a bank holding company, we depend on dividends and distributions paid to us by our banking subsidiary.. The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and our other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, from which we would fund any dividends paid to our shareholders, has historically been dividends the Company receives from the Bank. Regulations of the FDIC and the KDFI govern the ability of the Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to the Company, and regulations of the Federal Reserve govern our ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to shareholders. Since the Bank is unlikely to be in a position to pay dividends to the Company without prior regulatory approval until retained earnings are positive, cash inflows for the Company are limited to common stock or debt issuances. See the “Item 1. Business” “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities – Dividends.”. We are currently precluded from paying any dividends.. Our agreement with the holders of our trust preferred securities provides that we cannot pay dividends until we pay all deferred distributions in full and resume paying quarterly distributions. We have also agreed with the Federal Reserve to obtain its written consent prior to declaring or paying any future dividends. In addition, the dividend preferences of our Series E and Series F Preferred Shares entitle our preferred shareholders to receive an annual, noncumulative 2% dividend before we can pay a dividend on our non-voting common shares and voting common shares.. Interest on junior subordinated debt is in deferral.. At December 31, 2017, we had an aggregate obligation of $22.2 million relating to the principal and accrued unpaid interest on our four issues of junior subordinated debentures, which has resulted in a deferral of distributions on our trust preferred securities. Although we are permitted to defer payments on these securities for up to five years (and we commenced doing so in 2016), the deferred interest payments continue to accrue until paid in full. Our deferral period expires after the second quarter of 2021.. 9. Table of Contents. The Company’s senior debt is secured by the Bank’s common stock and contains financial covenants that must be maintained to avoid default.. The Company’s senior secured loan agreement is with a commercial bank. The loan matures on June 30, 2022. Interest is payable quarterly at a rate of three-month LIBOR plus 250 basis points through June 30, 2020, at which time quarterly principal payments of $250,000 plus interest will commence. The loan is secured by a first priority pledge of 100% of the issued and outstanding stock of the Bank. The Company may prepay any amount due under the promissory note at any time without premium or penalty.. The loan agreement contains customary representations, warranties, covenants and events of default, including the following financial covenants: (i) the Company must maintain minimum cash on hand of not less than $750,000 through June 30, 2018, and not less than $2,500,000 thereafter, (ii) the Company must maintain a total risk based capital ratio at least equal to 9% of risk-weighted assets to June 30, 2018, and 10% thereafter, (iii) the Bank must maintain a total risk based capital ratio at least equal to 10% of risk-weighted assets to June 30, 2018, and 11% thereafter, and (iv) non-performing assets of the Bank may not exceed 2.5% of the Bank’s total assets. Both the Company and Bank were in compliance with the covenants as of December 31, 2017.. We are defendants in various legal proceedings.. The Company and the Bank are involved in judicial proceedings and regulatory investigations concerning matters arising from our business activities. Although we believe we have a meritorious defense in all significant litigation pending against us, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties and unfavorable rulings could occur. We record contingent liabilities resulting from claims against us when a loss is assessed to be probable and the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. Assessing probability of loss and estimating probable losses requires analysis of multiple factors, including in some cases judgments about the potential actions of third party claimants and courts. Recorded contingent liabilities are based on the best information available and actual losses in any future period are inherently uncertain. Accruals are not made in cases where liability is not probable or the amount cannot be reasonably estimated. We provide disclosure of matters where we believe liability is reasonably possible and which may be material to our consolidated financial statements. If we do not prevail, the ultimate outcome of litigation matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. For more information about ongoing legal proceedings, see the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.. In the past, the Bank served as trustee for employee stock ownership plans (“ESOPs”) which engaged in transactions that are under review by the U. S. Department of Labor (“DOL”), subjecting us to certain legal risks.. From 2007 until the first quarter of 2013, the Bank served as trustee for certain ESOPs that purchased the stock of companies from prior owners in purchase transactions. Stock purchase transactions by ESOPs are subject to regular and routine reviews by the DOL for compliance with ERISA. Failure to fulfill fiduciary duties under ERISA with respect to any such plan would subject the Bank to certain financial risks such as claims for damages as well as fines and penalties assessable under ERISA. The Bank was a defendant in legal proceedings initiated by the DOL with respect to two stock purchase transactions by ESOPs for which the Bank served as trustee. Both matters were settled. A ruling in any future litigation that the Bank failed to fulfill its fiduciary duties under ERISA with respect to an ESOP, including stock purchases by the ESOP, could subject the Bank to claims for damages as well as fines and penalties assessable under ERISA.. Investigations into and heightened scrutiny of our operations could result in additional costs and damage our reputation.. In October 2014, the Department of Justice (“DOJ”) initiated an investigation concerning possible violations of federal laws, including, among other things, possible violations related to false bank entries, bank fraud and securities fraud. The investigation concerns allegations that Bank personnel engaged in practices intended to delay or avoid disclosure of the Bank’s asset quality at the time of and following the United States Treasury’s purchase of preferred shares from the Company in November 2008. The Bank has cooperated with all requests for information from the DOJ. At this time, the DOJ has not indicated whether it intends to pursue any action in the matter. Heightened scrutiny of the operations of the Company and the Bank by federal officials may subject us to governmental or regulatory inquiries, investigations, actions, penalties and fines, which could adversely affect our reputation and result in costs to us in excess of current reserves and management’s estimate of the aggregate range of possible loss for such matters.. 10. Table of Contents. Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and by economic conditions generally.. Weakness in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in our markets may have one or more of the following adverse effects on our business:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tA decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services we offer;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tA decrease in the value of collateral securing our loans; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAn increase in the number of customers who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans.. Adverse conditions in the general business environment have had an adverse effect on our business in the past. Although the general business environment has improved, we cannot predict how long such improvement can be sustained. In addition, the improvement of certain economic indicators, such as real estate asset values, rents, and unemployment, may vary between geographic markets and may continue to lag behind improvement in the overall economy. These economic indicators typically affect the real estate and financial services industries, in which we have a significant number of customers, more significantly than other economic sectors. Furthermore, we have a substantial lending business that depends upon the ability of borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. Should economic conditions worsen, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. A large percentage of our loans are collateralized by real estate, and prolonged weakness in the real estate market may result in losses and adversely affect our profitability.. Approximately 73.7% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2017, was comprised of commercial and residential loans collateralized by real estate. Adverse economic conditions could decrease demand for real estate and depress real estate values in our markets. Persistent weakness in the real estate market could significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If real estate values decline, it will become more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses. If during a period of depressed real estate values, we were required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition.. We offer real estate construction and development loans, which carry a higher degree of risk than other real estate loans. Weakness in the residential construction and commercial development real estate markets has in the past increased the non-performing assets in our loan portfolio and our provision for loan loss expense. These impacts have had, and could have in the future, a material adverse effect on capital, financial condition and results of operations.. Approximately 8.1% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2017 consisted of real estate construction and development loans, up from 5.7% at December 31, 2016 and 5.4% at December 31, 2015. These loans generally carry a higher degree of risk than long-term financing of existing properties because repayment depends on the ultimate completion of the project and permanent financing or sale of the property. If the Bank is forced to foreclose on a project prior to its completion, it may not be able to recover the entire unpaid portion of the loan or it may be required to fund additional money to complete the project, or hold the property for an indeterminate period of time. Any of these outcomes may result in losses and adversely affect profitability and financial condition.. Residential construction and commercial development real estate activity in our markets were affected by the challenging economic conditions that followed the financial crisis of 2008. Weakness in these sectors could lead to valuation adjustments to the loan portfolios and real estate owned. A weak real estate market could reduce demand for residential housing, which, in turn, could adversely affect real estate development and construction activities. Consequently, the longer challenging economic conditions persist, the more likely they are to adversely affect the ability of residential real estate development borrowers to repay loans and the value of property used as collateral for such loans.. Our decisions regarding credit risk may not be accurate, and our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses at a level we believe is adequate to absorb probable incurred losses in the loan portfolio based on historical loan loss experience, economic and environmental factors, specific problem loans, value of underlying collateral and other relevant factors. If our assessment of these factors is ultimately inaccurate, the allowance may not be sufficient to cover actual future loan losses, which would adversely affect operating results. Management’s estimates are subjective, and their accuracy depends on the outcome of future events. Changes in economic, operating, and other conditions that are generally beyond our control could cause actual loan losses to increase significantly. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their supervisory functions, periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses. Regulatory agencies may require an increase in provision for loan losses or to recognize additional loan charge-offs when their judgment differed from ours. Any of these events could have a material negative impact on our operating results.. 11. Table of Contents. Our levels of classified loans and non-performing assets may increase in the foreseeable future if economic conditions cause borrowers to default. Further, the value of the collateral underlying a given loan, and the realizable value of such collateral in a foreclosure sale, may decline, making it less likely to realize a full recovery if a borrower defaults on a loan. Any additional increases in the level of our non-performing assets, loan charge-offs or provision for loan losses, or our inability to realize the estimated net value of underlying collateral in the event of a loan default, could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our securities.. If we experience greater credit losses than anticipated, our operating results would be adversely affected.. As a lender, the Bank is exposed to the risk that borrowers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio will relate principally to the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets.. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for estimated loss losses based on a number of factors. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments are wrong, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual loan losses. We may have to increase our allowance in the future at the request of one of our primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for loan losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions.. We continue to hold and from time to time acquire OREO properties, which could increase operating expenses and result in future losses to the Company.. During recent years, the Bank has acquired and disposed of a significant amount of real estate as a result of foreclosure or by deed in lieu of foreclosure that is listed on our balance sheet as other real estate owned (“OREO”). An increase in our OREO portfolio increases the expenses incurred to manage and dispose of these properties, which sometimes includes funding construction required to facilitate sale.. Properties in our OREO portfolio are recorded at fair value, which represents the estimated sales price of the properties on the date acquired less estimated selling costs. Generally, in determining “fair value” an orderly disposition of the property is assumed, except where a different disposition strategy is expected. Significant judgment is required in estimating the fair value of OREO, and the period of time within which such estimates can be considered current may change during periods of market volatility. Any decreases in market prices of real estate in our market areas may lead to additional OREO write downs, with a corresponding expense in our statement of operations. We evaluate OREO property values periodically and write down the carrying value of the properties if and when the results of our analysis require it.. In response to market conditions and other economic factors, we may utilize alternative sale strategies other than orderly disposition as part of our OREO disposition strategy, such as auctions or bulk sales. In this event, as a result of the significant judgments required in estimating fair value and the variables involved in different methods of disposition, the net proceeds realized from such sales transactions could differ significantly from appraisals, comparable sales, and other estimates used to determine the fair value of our OREO properties. In addition, our disposition of OREO through alternative sales strategies could impact the fair value of comparable OREO properties remaining in our portfolio.. Our profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions.. Most of our business activities are conducted in central Kentucky and most of our credit exposure is in that region. We are at risk from adverse economic or business developments affecting this area, including declining regional and local business and employment activity, a downturn in real estate values and agricultural activities and natural disasters. To the extent the central Kentucky economy weakens, delinquency rates, foreclosures, bankruptcies and losses in our loan portfolio will likely increase. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that secures our loans could be adversely affected by the economic downturn or a localized natural disaster. Events that adversely affect business activity and real estate values in central Kentucky have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. 12. Table of Contents. Our small to medium-sized business portfolio may have fewer resources to weather a downturn in the economy.. Our portfolio includes loans to small and medium-sized businesses and other commercial enterprises. Small and medium-sized businesses frequently have smaller market shares than their competitors, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need additional capital to expand or compete and may experience variations in operating results, any of which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small or medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons. The death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay our loan. A continued economic downturn may have a more pronounced negative impact on our target market, causing us to incur substantial credit losses that could materially harm our operating results.. Our profitability is vulnerable to fluctuations in interest rates.. Changes in interest rates could harm our financial condition or results of operations. Our results of operations depend substantially on net interest income, the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets (such as investments and loans) and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities (such as deposits and borrowings). Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic or international economic or political conditions. Factors beyond our control, such as inflation, recession, unemployment and money supply may also affect interest rates. If, as a result of decreasing interest rates, our interest-earning assets mature or reprice more quickly than our interest-bearing liabilities in a given period, our net interest income may decrease. Likewise, our net interest income may decrease if interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice more quickly than interest-earning assets in a given period as a result of increasing interest rates.. Fixed-rate loans increase our exposure to interest rate risk in a rising rate environment because interest-bearing liabilities may be subject to repricing before assets become subject to repricing. Fixed rate investment securities are subject to fair value declines as interest rates rise. Adjustable-rate loans decrease the risk associated with changes in interest rates but involve other risks, such as the inability of borrowers to make higher payments in an increasing interest rate environment. At the same time, for secured loans, the marketability of the underlying collateral may be adversely affected by higher interest rates. In a declining interest rate environment, there may be an increase in prepayments on loans as the borrowers refinance their loans at lower interest rates, which could reduce net interest income and harm our results of operations.. If we cannot obtain adequate funding, we may not be able to meet the cash flow requirements of our depositors and borrowers, or meet the operating cash needs of the Company.. Our liquidity policies and limits are established by the Board of Directors of the Bank, with operating limits managed and monitored by the Asset Liability Committee (“ALCO”), based upon analyses of the ratio of loans to deposits and the percentage of assets funded with non-core or wholesale funding. The ALCO regularly monitors the overall liquidity position of the Bank and the Company to ensure that various alternative strategies exist to meet unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. If our liquidity policies and strategies do not work as well as intended, we may be unable to make loans and repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. The ALCO follows established board approved policies and monitors guidelines to diversify our wholesale funding sources to avoid concentrations in any one-market source. Wholesale funding sources include Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, and Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) advances that are collateralized with mortgage-related assets.. We maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. There are other available sources of liquidity, including additional collateralized borrowings such as FHLB advances, the issuance of debt securities, and the issuance of preferred or common shares in public or private transactions. If we are unable to access any of these funding sources when needed, we might not be able to meet the needs of our customers, which could adversely impact our financial condition, our results of operations, cash flows, and our level of regulatory-qualifying capital.. We may not be able to realize the value of our tax losses and deductions.. Due to historic losses, we have a net operating loss carry-forward of $25.6 million, credit carry-forwards of $900,000, and other net deferred tax assets of $4.8 million. In order to realize the benefit of these tax losses, credits and deductions, we will need to generate substantial taxable income in future periods. Our deferred tax assets are calculated using a federal corporate tax rate of 21%. Changes in tax laws and rates may affect our deferred tax assets in the future. If lower federal corporate tax rates are enacted, our net deferred tax assets would be reduced commensurate with the rate reduction. Additionally, should the Company need to raise additional capital by issuing new common shares or securities convertible into common shares, then depending on the number of common share equivalents issued, it could trigger a “change in control,” as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Such an event could negatively impact or limit the ability to utilize our net operating loss carry-forwards, credit loss carry-forwards, and other net deferred tax assets.. 13. Table of Contents. We may sell capital stock in the future to raise additional capital or for additional liquidity at the holding company. Future sales or other dilution of our equity may adversely affect the market price of our common shares.. Our issuance of additional common shares or securities convertible into common shares would dilute the ownership interest of our existing common shareholders. The market price of our common shares could decline as a result of such an offering as well as other sales of a large block of shares of our common shares or similar securities in the market after such an offering, or the perception that such sales could occur. Our common shares have traded from time-to-time at a price below our book value per share. A sale of common shares at or below our book value would be dilutive to current shareholders. The sale of shares at a price below market value could negatively impact the market price of our common shares.. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could significantly increase our non-interest expense.. Our deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments. FDIC assessments for deposit insurance are based on the average total consolidated assets of the insured institution during the assessment period, less the average tangible equity of the institution during the assessment period. Any increase in assessment rates may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We face strong competition from other financial institutions and financial service companies, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We compete with other financial institutions in attracting deposits and making loans. Our competition in attracting deposits comes principally from other commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds. Our competition in making loans comes principally from other commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, and consumer finance companies. In addition, competition for business in the Louisville and Lexington metropolitan areas has grown in recent years as changes in banking law have allowed banks to enter those markets by establishing new branches.. Competition in the banking industry may also limit our ability to attract and retain banking clients. We maintain smaller staffs of associates and have fewer financial and other resources than larger institutions with which we compete. Financial institutions that have far greater resources and greater efficiencies than we do may have several marketplace advantages resulting from their ability to:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\toffer higher interest rates on deposits and lower interest rates on loans than we can;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\toffer a broader range of services than we do;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmaintain more branch locations than we do; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns.. In addition, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and other financial intermediaries may not be subject to the same regulatory restrictions as we are and may have larger lending limits than we do. Some of our current commercial banking clients may seek alternative banking sources as they develop needs for credit facilities larger than we can accommodate. If we are unable to attract and retain customers, we may not be able to maintain growth and our results of operations and financial condition may otherwise be negatively impacted.. We depend on our senior management team, and the unexpected loss of one or more of our senior executives could impair our relationship with customers and adversely affect our business and financial results.. Our future success significantly depends on the continued services and performance of our key management personnel. Our future performance will depend on our ability to motivate and retain these and other key officers. The Dodd-Frank Act, and the policies of bank regulatory agencies have placed restrictions on executive compensation practices. Such restrictions and standards may further impact our ability to compete for talent with other businesses that are not subject to the same limitations as we are. The loss of the services of members of senior management or other key officers or our inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed could materially harm our business.. Our reported financial results depend on management’s selection of accounting methods and certain assumptions and estimates.. Accounting policies and assumptions are fundamental to the reported financial condition and results of operations. Management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner in which to report our financial condition and results. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which may be reasonable under the circumstances, yet may result in reporting materially different results than would have been reported under a different alternative.. 14. Table of Contents. Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting our reported financial condition and results. They require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies include the valuation of securities, allowance for loan losses, valuation of OREO, valuation of stock based compensation, valuation of net deferred income tax asset, assessing and estimating contingencies, and revenue recognition. Because of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, we may be required, among other things, to significantly increase the allowance for credit losses, sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the reserve provided, recognize significant impairment on OREO, or permanently impair deferred tax assets.. While management continually monitors and improves our system of internal controls, data processing systems, and corporate wide processes and procedures, we may suffer losses from operational risk in the future.. Management maintains internal operational controls, and we have invested in technology to help us process large volumes of transactions. However, we may not be able to continue processing at the same or higher levels of transactions. If our systems of internal controls should fail to work as expected, if our systems were to be used in an unauthorized manner, or if employees were to subvert the system of internal controls, significant losses could occur.. We process large volumes of transactions on a daily basis and are exposed to numerous types of operational risk, which could cause us to incur substantial losses. Operational risk resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems includes the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems, and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. This risk of loss also includes potential legal actions that could arise as a result of the operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards.. We establish and maintain systems of internal operational controls that provide management with timely and accurate information about our level of operational risk. While not foolproof, these systems have been designed to manage operational risk at appropriate, cost effective levels. We have also established procedures that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are followed. Nevertheless, we experience loss from operational risk from time to time, including the effects of operational errors, and these losses may be substantial.. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach.. Failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses. As a financial institution, we depend on our ability to process, record and monitor a large number of customer transactions on a continuous basis. As customer, public and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting, data processing systems or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be sudden increases in customer transaction volume, electrical or telecommunications outages, natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics, events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts, and, as described below, cyber attacks. Although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers.. Information security risks for financial institutions have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. As noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. In addition, to access our products and services, our customers may use personal smartphones, tablet PC’s, and other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems. Although we believe we have appropriate information security procedures and controls, our technologies, systems, networks, and our customers’ devices may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches. These events could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our customers’ confidential, proprietary and other information or that of our customers, or otherwise disrupt the business operations of ourselves, our customers or other third parties.. 15. Table of Contents. Third parties with which we do business or that facilitate our business activities, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints. Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, we can give no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats and the prevalence of Internet and mobile banking. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems or devices that our customers use to access our products and services could result in customer attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We operate in a highly regulated environment and, as a result, are subject to extensive regulation and supervision that could adversely affect financial performance and ability to implement growth and operating strategies.. We are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by federal and state regulatory agencies, as described under “Item 1 – Business-Supervision and Regulation.” Regulatory oversight of banks is primarily intended to protect depositors, the federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole, and not our shareholders. Compliance with these regulations is costly and may make it more difficult to operate profitably.. Federal and state banking laws and regulations govern numerous matters including the payment of dividends, the acquisition of other banks, and the establishment of new banking offices. We must also meet specific regulatory capital requirements. Our failure to comply with these laws, regulations, and policies or to maintain required capital could affect our ability to pay dividends on common shares, our ability to grow through the development of new offices, make acquisitions, and remain independent. These limitations may prevent us from successfully implementing our growth and operating strategies.. In addition, the laws and regulations applicable to banks could change at any time, which could significantly impact our business and profitability. For example, new legislation or regulation could limit the manner in which we may conduct our business, including our ability to attract deposits and make loans. Events that may not have a direct impact on us, such as the bankruptcy or insolvency of a prominent U.S. corporation, can cause legislators and banking regulators and other agencies such as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and various taxing authorities to respond by adopting and or proposing substantive revisions to laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations. The nature, extent, and timing of the adoption of significant new laws and regulations, or changes in or repeal of existing laws and regulations may have a material impact on our business and results of operations. Changes in regulation may cause us to devote substantial additional financial resources and management time to compliance, which may negatively affect our operating results.. Changes in banking laws could have a material adverse effect on us.. We are subject to changes in federal and state laws as well as changes in banking and credit regulations, and governmental economic and monetary policies. We cannot predict whether any of these changes could adversely and materially affect us. The current regulatory environment for financial institutions entails significant potential increases in compliance requirements and associated costs. Federal and state banking regulators also possess broad powers to take supervisory actions as they deem appropriate. These supervisory actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums and limitations on our activities that could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability.. Recent legislation regarding the financial services industry may have a significant adverse effect on operations.. Enacted in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act has had a significant impact the U.S. financial system, including among other things:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnew requirements on banking, derivative and investment activities, including the repeal of the prohibition on the payment of interest on business demand accounts, and debit card interchange fee requirements;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with supervisory authority, including the power to conduct examinations and take enforcement actions with respect to financial institutions with assets of $10 billion or more and implement regulations that will affect all financial institutions;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tprovisions affecting corporate governance and executive compensation of all companies subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta provision requiring bank regulators to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as strong as those required for their insured depository subsidiaries, subject to a grandfather clause for holding companies with less than $15 billion in assets as of December 31, 2009.. 16. Table of Contents. Some provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rule-making, implementation, and interpretation, the effects of which are not yet known. As a result, it is difficult to gauge the ultimate impact of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act because the implementation of many concepts is left to regulatory agencies. For example, the CFPB is given the power to adopt new regulations to protect consumers and is given control over existing consumer protection regulations adopted by federal banking regulators. The CFPB has already adopted a number of regulations but it is not known at this time when additional rules will be finalized and implemented.. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any rules adopted to implement those provisions, as well as any additional legislative or regulatory changes may impact the profitability of our business activities and costs of operations, require that we change certain of our business practices, materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, require us to raise additional regulatory capital, including additional Tier 1 capital, and could expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These and other changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business as previously conducted or our results of operations or financial condition.. 17. Table of Contents"                      
