[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. From time to time, information we provide, statements by our employees or information included in our filings with the SEC may contain forward-looking statements that are not historical facts.  Those statements are \"forward-looking\" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of words such as \"may,\" \"will,\" \"expect,\" \"intend,\" \"estimate,\" \"anticipate,\" \"believe,\" \"forecast,\" \"guidance\" or words of similar meaning.  Actual results may differ materially from such statements due to a variety of factors that could adversely affect the Company's operating results.  Forward-looking statements, and our future performance, operating results, financial position and liquidity, are subject to a variety of factors that could materially affect results, including those risks described below.  Forward-looking statements made in this report speak only as of the date of the statement, and, except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update those statements.  Comparisons of results for current and any prior periods are not intended to express any future trends or indications of future performance, unless expressed as such, and should only be viewed as historical data.. In the ordinary course of our business, we face various strategic, operating, compliance and financial risks.  These risks could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.  Our Enterprise Risk Management (\"ERM\") process seeks to identify and address significant risks.  Our ERM process is a company-wide initiative that is designed with the intent of prioritizing risks and allocating appropriate resources to address such risks.  We use the integrated risk framework of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations to assess, manage and monitor risks.. Management has identified and prioritized critical risks based on the severity and likelihood of each risk and assigned an executive to address each major identified risk area and lead action plans to monitor and mitigate risks, where possible.  Our Board of Directors provides oversight of the ERM process and systematically reviews identified critical risks.  The Audit Committee also reviews major financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and control them.. Our goal is to pro-actively manage risks in a structured approach and in conjunction with the strategic planning process, with the intent to preserve and enhance shareholder value.  However, these and other risks and uncertainties could cause our results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results.  The risk factors and uncertainties described below, together with information incorporated by reference or otherwise included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be carefully considered.  Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are currently unaware or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.. General economic and market conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and access to capital markets.. Our operating results are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions.  Recessionary economic cycles, higher interest rates, inflation, higher labor costs, trade barriers in the world markets, financial turmoil related to sovereign debt and changes in tax laws or trade laws or other economic factors affecting the countries and industries in which we do business could adversely affect demand for our products.  An adverse change in demand could impact our results of operations, collection of accounts receivable and our expected cash flow generation from current and acquired businesses, which may adversely impact our financial condition and access to capital markets.. 3. Economic and supply disruptions associated with events beyond our control, such as war, acts of terror, political unrest, pandemic, labor disputes or natural disasters could adversely affect our supply chain and distribution channels or result in loss of sales and customers.. Our facilities and operations, and the facilities and operations of our suppliers and customers, could be disrupted by events beyond our control, such as war, political unrest, pandemic, labor disputes or natural disasters.  Any such disruption could cause delays in the production and distribution of our products and the loss of sales and customers.  Insurance proceeds may not adequately compensate the Company for the losses.. Availability of and volatility in energy costs or raw material prices may adversely affect our performance.. In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks related to the availability of and price fluctuations in the purchase of energy and commodities used in the manufacture of our products (primarily steel, brass, copper, silver, aluminum alloys, electronic components, electricity and natural gas).  The availability and prices for energy costs and raw materials, including steel, nonferrous metals and chemicals, are subject to volatility and are influenced by worldwide economic conditions, speculative action, world supply and demand balances, inventory levels, availability of substitute materials, currency exchange rates, anticipated or perceived shortages, government trade practices and regulations and other factors.. Increases in the cost of raw materials and components may adversely affect our profitability if we are unable to pass along to our customers these cost increases in the form of price increases or otherwise reduce our cost of goods sold.  Although most of the raw materials and components used in our products are commercially available from a number of sources and in adequate supply, any disruption in the availability of such raw materials and components, our inability to timely or otherwise obtain substitutes for such items, or any deterioration in our relationships with or the financial viability of our suppliers could adversely affect our business.. We are a co-defendant in litigation alleging asbestos induced illness.  Liabilities relating to such litigation could reduce our profitability and impair our financial condition.. As of  December 31, 2017, we were a co-defendant in cases alleging asbestos induced illness involving claims by approximately 3,613 plaintiffs.  In each instance, we are one of a large number of defendants.  The asbestos claimants allege that exposure to asbestos contained in welding consumables caused the plaintiffs to develop adverse pulmonary diseases, including mesothelioma and other lung cancers.. Since January 1, 1995, we have been a co-defendant in asbestos cases that have been resolved as follows: 54,732 of those claims were dismissed, 23 were tried to defense verdicts, 7 were tried to plaintiff verdicts (one of which was appealed by defendants and was remanded to the trial court for a new trial), 1 was resolved by agreement for an immaterial amount and 776 were decided in favor of the Company following summary judgment motions.. The long-term impact of the asbestos loss contingency, in the aggregate, on operating results, operating cash flows and access to capital markets is difficult to assess, particularly since claims are in many different stages of development and we benefit significantly from cost-sharing with co-defendants and insurance carriers.  While we intend to contest these lawsuits vigorously, and believe we have applicable insurance relating to these claims, there are several risks and uncertainties that may affect our liability for personal injury claims relating to exposure to asbestos, including the future impact of changing cost sharing arrangements or a change in our overall trial experience.. Asbestos use in welding consumables in the U.S. ceased in 1981.. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability claims that may be brought against us.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, sale and application of our products and the products of third-party suppliers that we utilize or resell.  Our products are used in a variety of applications, including infrastructure projects such as oil and gas pipelines and platforms, buildings, bridges and power generation facilities, the manufacture of transportation and heavy equipment and machinery and various other construction projects.  We face risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that accidents or failures on these projects result, or are alleged to result, in bodily injury or property damage.  Further, our products are designed for use in specific applications, and if a product is used inappropriately, personal injury or property damage may result.  In certain cases, we design automated welding systems for use in a customer's production facilities (including automotive production facilities), which could expose us to financial losses or professional liability.. 4. The occurrence of defects in or failures of our products, or the misuse of our products in specific applications, could cause termination of customer contracts, increased costs and losses to us, our customers and other end users.  We cannot be assured that we will not experience any material product liability losses in the future or that we will not incur significant costs to defend those claims.  Further, we cannot be assured that our product liability insurance coverage will be adequate for any liabilities that we may ultimately incur or that product liability insurance will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us.  Even if we are successful defending such claims or product liability coverage is adequate, claims of this nature could cause customers to lose confidence in our products and our company.  Warranty claims are not generally covered by insurance and we may incur significant warranty costs in the future for which we would not be reimbursed.. The cyclical nature and maturity of the arc welding and cutting industry in developed markets may adversely affect our performance.. The arc welding and cutting industry is generally a mature industry in developed markets such as North America and Western Europe and is cyclical in nature.  Overall demand for arc welding and cutting products is largely determined by the level of capital spending in manufacturing and other industrial sectors, and the welding industry has historically experienced contraction during periods of slowing industrial activity.  If economic, business and industry conditions deteriorate, capital spending in those sectors may be substantially decreased, which could reduce demand for our products, our revenues and our results of operations.. We may not be able to complete our acquisition or divestiture strategies, successfully integrate acquired businesses and in certain cases we may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters.. Part of our business strategy is to pursue targeted business acquisition opportunities, including foreign investment opportunities.  We cannot be certain that we will be successful in pursuing potential acquisition candidates or that the consequences of any acquisition would be beneficial to us.  Future acquisitions may expose us to unexpected liabilities and involve the expenditure of significant funds and management time.  Further, we may not be able to successfully integrate an acquired business with our existing businesses or recognize the expected benefits from any completed acquisition.  Integration efforts may include significant rationalization activities that could be disruptive to the business.  Our current operational cash flow is sufficient to fund our acquisition plans, but a significant acquisition could require access to the capital markets.. Additionally, from time to time we may identify assets for strategic divestitures that would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies.  Various factors could materially affect our ability to dispose of such assets or complete announced divestitures, including the receipt of approvals of governmental agencies or third parties and the availability of purchasers willing to acquire the interests or purchase the assets on terms and at prices acceptable to us.. Sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters.  The magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material.  Also, as is typical in divestitures, third parties may be unwilling to release us from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets.  As a result, after a divestiture, we may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations.. If we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market products that meet customer demands, continue to enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights, our revenues, gross margins and results of operations may suffer.. Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to meet our customers' needs for welding and cutting products through the introduction of innovative new products and the enhancement of existing product design and performance characteristics.  We must remain committed to product research and development and customer service in order to remain competitive.  We cannot be assured that new products or product improvements, once developed, will meet with customer acceptance and contribute positively to our operating results, or that we will be able to continue our product development efforts at a pace to sustain future growth.  Further, we may lose customers to our competitors if they demonstrate product design, development or manufacturing capabilities superior to ours.. We rely upon patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in foreign countries, as well as agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other third parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights.  However, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to provide a competitive advantage.  Further, the laws and their application in certain foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as U.S. laws.  Accordingly, in certain countries, we may be unable to protect our proprietary rights against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could impact our competitive position.. 5. Further, third parties may claim that we or our customers are infringing upon their intellectual property rights.  Even if we believe that those claims are without merit, defending those claims and contesting the validity of patents can be time consuming and costly.  Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlements or license agreements, pay costly damage awards or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing, marketing or selling certain of our products.. The competitive pressures we face could harm our revenue, gross margins and prospects.. We operate in a highly competitive global environment and compete in each of our businesses with other broad-line manufacturers and numerous smaller competitors specializing in particular products.  We compete primarily on the basis of brand, product quality, price, performance, warranty, delivery, service and technical support.  We have previously initiated, and may in the future initiate significant rationalization activities to align our business to market conditions and improve our overall competitiveness, including with respect to the integration of acquired businesses.  Such rationalization activities could fail to deliver the desired competitive cost structure and could result in disruptions in customer service.  If our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of the criteria listed above, our operations, results and prospects could suffer.. Further, in the past decade, the arc welding industry in the United States and other developed countries has been subject to increased levels of foreign competition as low cost imports have become more readily available.  Our competitive position could be harmed if new or emerging competitors become more active in the arc welding business. For example, while steel manufacturers traditionally have not been significant competitors in the domestic arc welding industry, some foreign integrated steel producers manufacture selected consumable arc welding products and robotic arm manufacturers compete in the automated welding and cutting space.  In addition, in certain markets of the world, distributors manufacture and sell arc welding products.  Our sales and results of operations, as well as our plans to expand in some foreign countries, could be adversely affected by this practice.. We conduct our sales and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and maintain manufacturing facilities in a number of foreign countries, which subjects us to risks associated with doing business outside the United States.. As a growing global enterprise, the share of sales and profits we derive from our international operations and exports from the United States is significant.  This trend increases our exposure to the performance of many developing economies in addition to the developed economies outside of the United States.  If international economies were to experience significant slowdowns, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  There are a number of risks in doing business internationally, which may impede our ability to achieve our strategic objectives relating to our foreign operations, including:. • Political and economic uncertainty and social turmoil;. • Corporate governance and management challenges in consideration of the numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings and funds, exchange controls, labor regulations, nationalization, tariffs, anti-boycott provisions and anti-bribery laws (such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Convention);. • International terrorism and hostilities;. • Changes in the global regulatory environment, including revised or newly created laws, regulations or standards relating to the Company, our products or the markets in which we operate; and. • Significant fluctuations in relative currency values; in particular, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies could have an adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition, as well as the imposition of exchange controls, currency devaluations and hyperinflation.. Our operations depend on maintaining a skilled workforce, and any interruption in our workforce could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.. Our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management team and key employees.  Their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and performance.  Our future success will also depend on our ability to identify, attract and retain highly qualified managerial and technical (including research and development) personnel.  Competition for these individuals is intense, and we may not succeed in identifying, attracting or retaining qualified personnel.  With our strategy to expand internationally into developing markets, we may incur additional risks as some developing economies lack a sufficiently trained labor pool.. Any interruption of our workforce, including rationalization efforts related to the integration of acquired businesses, interruptions due to unionization efforts, changes in labor relations or shortages of appropriately skilled individuals could impact our results of operations and financial condition.. 6. Our defined benefit pension plans are subject to financial market trends, such as changes in discount rates and actual investment return on pension assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.. The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact our funding obligations under our defined benefit pension plans.  Significant changes in discount rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets may increase our benefit obligations and adversely impact our results of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows through our annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities.  During the fourth quarter 2016, the Company made amendments to freeze all benefit accruals under the Lincoln Electric Retirement Annuity Program and the domestic Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, effective December 31, 2016 and November 30, 2016, respectively.  For further details on the plan freeze and a discussion regarding how the financial statements have been affected, refer to Note 11 to the Company's consolidated financial statements.. Changes in tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect profitability.. Our business is subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions.  Domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions.  Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix among earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowances of deferred tax assets or changes in tax laws.. The amount of income taxes paid is subject to ongoing audits by United States federal, state and local tax authorities and by foreign tax authorities.  If these audits result in assessments different from amounts reserved, future financial results may include unfavorable adjustments which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We are subject to risks relating to our information technology systems.. The conduct and management of our business relies extensively on information technology systems, which contain confidential information related to our customers, suppliers and employees and other proprietary business information.  We maintain some of these systems and are also dependent on a number of critical corporate infrastructure services provided by third parties relating to, among other things, human resources, electronic communication services and finance functions.  If these systems are damaged, cease to function properly or are subject to a significant cyber security breach, we may suffer an interruption in our ability to manage and operate the business and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.  Furthermore, a security breach could result in financial loss, unfavorable publicity, damage to our reputation, loss of our trade secrets and other competitive information, allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations, litigation by affected parties and fines and other sanctions resulting from any related breaches of data privacy regulations.  Any of these could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Our global operations are subject to increasingly complex environmental regulatory requirements.. We are subject to increasingly complex environmental regulations affecting international manufacturers, including those related to air and water emissions, waste management and climate change.  Some environmental laws impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the remediation of the release of hazardous substances, even for conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred, or for the conduct of or conditions caused by prior operators, predecessors or third parties.  Failure to comply with environmental laws could expose us to penalties or clean-up costs, civil or criminal liability and sanctions on certain of our activities, as well as damage to property or natural resources. These liabilities, sanctions, damages and remediation efforts related to any non-compliance with such laws and regulations could negatively impact our ability to conduct our operations and our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurances that we will not be adversely affected by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing or subsequently acquired operations or under present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future.. Changes in environmental laws or regulations could result in higher expenses and payments, and uncertainty relating to environmental laws or regulations may also affect how we conduct our operations and structure our investments and could limit our ability to enforce our rights.  Changes in environmental and climate change laws or regulations, including laws relating to greenhouse gas emissions, could subject us to additional costs and restrictions, including increased energy and raw material costs.  If environmental laws or regulations are either changed or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon us or our products, they could negatively impact our business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position.. It is our policy to apply strict standards for environmental protection to all of our operations inside and outside of the United States, even when we are not subject to local government regulations.  We may incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, liabilities resulting from third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or our products could be prohibited from entering certain jurisdictions, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws, if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws or if we were to undertake environmental protection actions voluntarily.. 7. We also face increasing complexity in our products design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the design, production and labeling of our products that are sold worldwide in multiple jurisdictions. The ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict.. We may incur additional restructuring charges as we continue to contemplate rationalization actions in an effort to optimize our cost structure and may not achieve the anticipated savings and benefits of these actions.. We may take additional actions in the future to further optimize our cost structure and improve the efficiency of our operations, which will reduce our profitability in the periods incurred.  As a result of these actions, we will likely continue to incur charges, which may include but are not be limited to asset impairments, employee severance costs, charges for pension and other postretirement contractual benefits and pension settlements, any of which could be significant, and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, we may not realize anticipated savings or benefits from past or future rationalization plans in full or in part or within the time periods we expect.  Failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits from our cost reduction actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows.  For more information regarding rationalization plans, refer to the rationalization and asset impairment related disclosure under Note 6 to the Company's consolidated financial statements.. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS"
