[1] "ITEM 1A  -  Risk Factors. <U+FEFF>. The following are certain of the more significant risks that may affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's irrigation revenues are highly dependent on the agricultural industry and weather conditions.    The Company's irrigation revenues are cyclical and highly dependent upon the need for irrigated agricultural crop production which, in turn, depends upon many factors, including total worldwide crop production, the profitability of agricultural crop production, agricultural commodity prices, net farm income, availability of financing for farmers, governmental policies regarding the agricultural sector, water and energy conservation policies, the regularity of rainfall, and regional climate conditions. As farm income decreases, farmers may postpone capital expenditures or seek less expensive irrigation alternatives.. <U+FEFF>. Weather conditions, particularly leading up to the planting and early growing season, can significantly affect the purchasing decisions of consumers of irrigation equipment.  Natural calamities such as regional floods, hurricanes or other storms, and droughts can have significant effects on seasonal irrigation demand.  Drought conditions, which generally affect irrigation equipment demand positively over the long term, can adversely affect demand if water sources become unavailable or if governments impose water restriction policies to reduce overall water availability.. Changing worldwide demand for food and different types of biofuel could have an effect on the price of agricultural commodities and consequently the demand for irrigation equipment.   Changing worldwide demand for farm outputs to meet the world's growing food and biofuel demands, driven in part by government policies and an expanding global population, are likely to result in fluctuating agricultural commodity prices, which affect demand for irrigation equipment. The primary benefit of many of the Company's irrigation products is to increase grain yields and the resulting revenue for farmers.  As grain prices decline, the breakeven point of incremental production is more difficult to achieve, reducing or eliminating the profit and return on investment from the purchase of the Company's products.  As a result, changes in grain prices can significantly affect the Company's sales levels.. <U+FEFF>. A decline in oil prices or changes in government policies regarding biofuels could also negatively affect the biofuels market and/or reduce government revenues of oil-producing countries that purchase or subsidize the purchase of irrigation equipment.  Biofuels production is a significant source of grain demand in the U.S. and certain international markets.  While ethanol production levels are currently mandated within the U.S., potential mandate changes or price declines for ethanol could reduce the demand for grains.  In addition, a number of ethanol producers in the U.S. are cooperatives partially owned by farmers.  Reduced profit of ethanol production could reduce income for farmers which could, in turn, reduce the demand for irrigation equipment.. <U+FEFF>. The Company's international sales are highly dependent on foreign market conditions and subject the Company to additional risk, restrictions, and compliance obligations.   International revenues are primarily generated from Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Europe, Mexico, the Middle East, Africa, China, Russia, Ukraine, and Central and South America.  In addition to risks relating to general economic and potential instability in these countries, a number of countries are particularly susceptible to disruption from changing socioeconomic conditions as well as terrorism, sanctions, war and similar incidents.  The collectability of receivables can also be difficult to estimate, particularly in areas of political instability or with governments with which the Company has limited experience or where there is a lack of transparency as to the current credit condition.. The Company's international sales efforts and profit margins are affected by international trade barriers, including governmental policies on tariffs, taxes, import or export licensing requirements and trade sanctions.  In addition, the Company's international sales efforts must also comply with anti-corruption laws like the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries (including, in the Company's case, dealers and sales representatives) from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence government officials or certain private individuals for the purpose of obtaining or retaining a business advantage.  As part of the Company's irrigation and infrastructure sales efforts, the Company promotes and sells products to governmental entities and state-owned or state-backed business enterprises, the employees and representatives of which may be considered government officials for purposes of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  Further, some of the countries in which the Company does business lack fully developed legal systems and are perceived to have elevated levels of corruption.  Although the Company has compliance and training programs in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential violations of such laws, violations of these laws or other compliance requirements could occur and result in criminal or civil sanctions and have an adverse effect on the Company's reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.. 10. Table of Contents. <U+FEFF>. The Company's international sales and profit margins are subject to currency exchange risk.    Most of the Company's international sales involve some level of export from the U.S., either of components or completed products.  Policies and geopolitical events affecting exchange rates could adversely affect the international flow of agricultural and other commodities, which can cause a corresponding downturn in the demand for agricultural equipment in many areas of the world.  Further, any strengthening of the U.S. dollar or any other currency of a country in which the Company manufactures its products (e.g. the Euro, Brazilian real, South African rand, Turkish lira and Chinese renminbi) and/or any weakening of local currencies can increase the cost of the Company's products in its foreign markets.  Irrespective of any effect on the overall demand for agricultural equipment, the effect of these changes can make the Company's products less competitive relative to local producing competitors and, in extreme cases, can result in the Company's products not being cost-effective for customers.  As a result, the Company's international sales and profit margins could decline.. <U+FEFF>. The Company's profitability may be negatively affected by changes in the availability and price of certain parts, components, and raw materials.    The Company requires access to various parts, components, and raw materials at competitive prices in order to manufacture its products. Changes in the availability and price of these parts, components, and raw materials (including steel and zinc), which have changed significantly and rapidly at times and are affected by factors like demand and freight costs, can significantly increase the costs of production.  Due to price competition in the market for irrigation equipment and certain infrastructure products, the Company may not be able to recoup increases in these costs through price increases for its products, which would result in reduced profitability.  Whether increased operating costs can be passed through to the customer depends on a number of factors, including farm income and the price of competing products.  Further, the Company relies on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials, parts and components in the manufacturing process.  Disruptions or delays in supply or significant price increases from these suppliers could adversely affect the Company's operations and profitability.  Such disruptions, terminations or cost increases could result in cost inefficiencies, delayed sales or reduced sales.. <U+FEFF>. The Company's infrastructure revenues are highly dependent on government funding of transportation projects and subject to compliance with government regulations.    The demand for the Company's infrastructure products depends to a large degree on the amount of government spending authorized to improve road and highway systems.  For example, the U.S. government funds highway and road improvements through the Federal Highway Trust Fund Program and matching funding from states may be required as a condition of federal funding.  If highway funding is reduced or delayed, it may reduce demand for the Company's infrastructure products.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, the Company's infrastructure products are required to meet certain standards as outlined by the various governments worldwide.  The Federal Highway Administration (\"FHWA\") has begun to implement Manual for Assessing Safety Hardware (\"MASH\") standards which update and supersede National Cooperative Highway Research Program (\"NCHRP\") Report 350 standards for evaluating new road safety hardware devices.  In addition, state departments of transportation have the ability to require compliance with MASH standards prior to FHWA mandating such practices.  While infrastructure products previously accepted under NCHRP Report 350 criteria are not required to be retested under MASH standards, they will no longer be eligible for federal reimbursement as the MASH standards are implemented by FHWA and the states.  The Company is incurring, and will continue to incur, research and development and testing expense to comply with MASH standards. Any reevaluation of the Company's infrastructure products' compliance with applicable standards, the implementation of new standards, and/or any delay in the Company's development of additional infrastructure products that comply with new standards could have a significant adverse effect on the Company's competitive position and on sales and profitability from its infrastructure product line.. <U+FEFF>. Compliance with applicable environmental and health and safety regulations or standards may require additional capital and operational expenditures.    The Company is subject to numerous laws and regulations which govern environmental and occupational health and safety matters.  The Company believes that its operations are substantially in compliance with all such applicable laws and regulations and that it holds all necessary permits in each jurisdiction in which its facilities are located.  Environmental and health and safety regulations are subject to change and interpretation.  Compliance with applicable regulations or standards may require the Company to make additional capital and operational expenditures.. The Company's Lindsay, Nebraska site was added to the list of priority superfund sites of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the \"EPA\") in 1989.  The Company and its environmental consultants have developed a remedial alternative work plan, under which the Company continues to work with the EPA to define and implement steps to better contain and remediate the remaining contamination.  Although the Company has accrued reasonably estimable. 11. Table of Contents. costs associated with remediation of the site, the estimate of costs and their timing could change as a result of a number of factors, including (1) input from the EPA and the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality on the proposed remediation plan and any changes which they may subsequently require, (2) refinement of cost estimates and length of time required to complete remediation and post-remediation operations and maintenance, (3) effectiveness of the technology chosen in remediation of the site as well as changes in technology that may become available in the future, and (4) unforeseen circumstances existing at the site. As a result of these factors, the actual amount of costs incurred by the Company in connection with the remediation of contamination of its Lindsay, Nebraska site could exceed the amounts accrued for this expense at the end of fiscal 2017.  The Company's ongoing remediation activities at its Lindsay, Nebraska facility are described in Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies, to the Company's consolidated financial statements.. <U+FEFF>. The Company is exposed to risks from legal proceedings.    From time to time, the Company may be involved in various legal proceedings and other various claims that arise in the ordinary course of its business, which may include commercial, employment, product liability, tort, and other litigation.  Current and future litigation, governmental proceedings and investigations, audits, indemnification claims or other claims that the Company faces may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of its management regardless of the outcome.  In addition, these matters could lead to increased costs or interruptions of its normal business operations.  Litigation, governmental proceedings and investigations, audits, indemnification claims or other claims involve uncertainties and the eventual outcome of any such matter could adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations or cash flows. For a summary of the Company's infrastructure products litigation, see Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies, to the Company's consolidated financial statements.. <U+FEFF>. The frequency and magnitude of liability claims and the related expenses could lower profitability and increase business risk.   The nature of the Company's business subjects the Company to potential liability for claims alleging property damage and personal injury or death arising from the use of or exposure to its products, especially infrastructure products that are installed along roadways. While the Company's liability insurance coverage is consistent with commercial norms in the industries in which the Company operates, an unusually large liability claim or a string of claims could potentially exceed the Company's available insurance coverage. In addition, the availability of, and the Company's ability to collect on, insurance coverage can be subject to factors beyond the Company's control.  For example, any accident, incident, or lawsuit involving the Company, its products specifically, or the industries in which the Company operates generally, even if the Company is fully insured, contractually indemnified, or not held to be liable, could significantly affect the cost and availability of insurance to the Company in the future.. <U+FEFF>. If any of the Company's third-party insurers fail, cancel, or refuse coverage, or otherwise are unable to provide the Company with adequate insurance coverage, then the Company's overall risk exposure and operational expenses would increase and the management of the Company's business operations would be disrupted.. <U+FEFF>. Further, as insurance policies expire, increased premiums for renewed or new coverage, if such coverage can be secured, may increase the Company's insurance expense and/or require that the Company increase its self-insured retention or deductibles. The Company maintains primary coverage and excess coverage policies. If the number of claims or the dollar amounts of any such claims rise in any policy year, the Company could suffer additional costs associated with accessing its excess coverage policies. Also, an increase in the loss amounts attributable to such claims could expose the Company to uninsured damages if the Company was unable or elected not to insure against certain claims because of increased premiums or other reasons.. <U+FEFF>. The Company's infrastructure products are installed along roadways in inherently dangerous applications.  Accidents involving the Company's infrastructure products could reduce demand for such products and expose the Company to significant damages and reputational harm.  The Company is currently defending a number of product liability lawsuits involving the Company's X-Lite® end terminal.  While the Company's infrastructure products are designed to meet all applicable standards in effect in the markets in which such products are offered, the risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity is inherent in the development, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of such products, including end terminals and crash cushions that are ultimately installed along roadways.  In addition to this inherent risk, a sizable judgment against a competitor (although recently reversed on appeal) brought significant attention to the infrastructure products industry and may lead to additional lawsuits being filed against the Company and others in the industry.. <U+FEFF>. 12. Table of Contents. An actual or perceived issue with the Company's infrastructure products could lead to a decline in demand for such products, the removal of such products from qualified products lists used by government customers in their purchasing decisions, product recalls, adverse publicity, claims or litigation, and/or the diversion of management's attention, which could materially and adversely affect the Company's reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations.  While infrastructure product selection, assembly, installation, operation, repair, and maintenance are the responsibilities of dealers, distributors, customers, and/or state departments of transportation, the Company may nevertheless also be subjected to claims or litigation in connection with a third party's alleged failure to satisfactorily discharge such responsibilities, including but not limited to claims associated with personal injuries, property damage, and death. Likewise, improper assembly, installation, operation, repair, or maintenance of the Company's infrastructure products may cause such infrastructure products to fail to meet certain performance standards, which could lead to similar consequences as an actual or perceived issue with the infrastructure products themselves.  Although the Company currently maintains insurance against product-related claims or litigation, the Company could be exposed to significant losses arising from claims involving infrastructure products if the Company's insurance does not cover all associated liabilities or if coverage in the future becomes unobtainable on commercially reasonable terms.. <U+FEFF>. Changes in interest rates could reduce demand for the Company's products.  Interest rates globally remain at historically low levels.  In some international markets, the Company has recently seen these rates rise to some degree and it is expected that global rates will continue to increase, potentially quickly in the U.S., as the economy continues to improve. Rising interest rates could have a dampening effect on overall economic activity and/or the financial condition of the Company's customers, either or both of which could negatively affect customer demand for the Company's products and customers' ability to repay obligations to the Company.  An increase in interest rates could also make it more difficult for customers to cost-effectively fund the purchase of new equipment, which could adversely affect the Company's sales.. <U+FEFF>. The Company's consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars while certain assets and other reported items are denominated in the currencies of other countries, creating currency translation risk.  The reporting currency for the Company's consolidated financial statements is the U.S. dollar.  Certain of the Company's assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues are denominated in other countries' currencies.  Those assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues are translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates to prepare the Company's consolidated financial statements.  Therefore, increases or decreases in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and those other currencies affect the value of those items as reflected in the Company's consolidated financial statements.  Substantial fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to other currencies could have a significant effect on the Company's results.. <U+FEFF>. Security breaches and other disruptions to the Company's information technology infrastructure could interfere with its operations and could compromise the Company's and its customers' and suppliers' information, exposing the Company to liability that could cause its business and reputation to suffer.  In the ordinary course of business, the Company relies upon information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business functions, including supply chain, manufacturing, distribution, invoicing and collection of payments.  The Company uses information technology systems to record, process and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements.  Additionally, the Company collects and stores sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information and the proprietary business information of customers and suppliers, as well as personally identifiable information of customers and employees, in data centers and on information technology networks.  The secure operation of these networks and the processing and maintenance of this information is critical to the Company's business operations and strategy.  Despite security measures and business continuity plans, the Company's information technology networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to, among other reasons, attacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error or malfeasance or other disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures or natural disasters or other catastrophic events.  The occurrence of any of these events could compromise the Company's networks, and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen.  Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information, disrupt operations, and damage the Company's reputation, which could adversely affect the Company's business.. <U+FEFF>. 13. Table of Contents"
