[1] "ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS. We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. The timelines of our clinical trials may be impacted by numerous factors and any delays may adversely affect our ability to execute our current business strategy.. Our expectations regarding the success of our product candidates, including our clinical candidates and lead compounds, and our business are based on projections which may not be realized for many scientific, business or other reasons. We therefore cannot assure investors that we will be able to adhere to our current schedule. We set goals that forecast the accomplishment of objectives material to our success: selecting clinical candidates, product candidates, failures in research, the inability to identify or advance lead compounds, identifying target patient groups or clinical candidates, the timing and completion of clinical trials, and anticipated regulatory approval. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors such as slow enrollment of patients in studies, uncertainties in scale-up, manufacturing and formulation of our compounds, failures in research, the inability to identify clinical candidates, failures in our clinical trials, requirements for additional clinical trials and uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process and regulatory submissions. Decisions by our partners or collaborators may also affect our timelines and delays in achieving manufacturing capacity and marketing infrastructure sufficient to commercialize our products. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval by applicable regulatory authorities may also vary significantly based on the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate involved, as well as other factors.. We depend primarily on the success of our lead product candidate, TLANDO, for which we recently received a negative vote from the BRUDAC against acceptability of the overall benefit/risk profile to support approval of TLANDO as a TRT as well as a previous Complete Response Letter from the FDA and which may not receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized.. TLANDO is currently our only product candidate that has completed Phase 3 clinical trials, and our business currently depends primarily on its successful development, regulatory approval and commercialization, if approved. We submitted an NDA to the FDA but have not submitted comparable applications to other regulatory authorities. We do not control whether or when we may receive approval of TLANDO from the FDA. However, we do have a PDUFA goal date of May 8, 2018. We are not permitted to market TLANDO in the United States until we receive approval of an NDA from the FDA, or in any foreign countries until we receive the requisite approval from such countries.. Although we have completed Phase 3 efficacy trials with TLANDO, approval from the FDA is not guaranteed. We resubmitted our NDA to the FDA in August 2017 based on the results of the DV study. The DV study confirmed the efficacy of TLANDO with a fixed dose regimen without need for dose adjustment. TLANDO was well tolerated upon 52-week exposure with no reports of drug related Serious Adverse Events (“SAEs”). The FDA accepted our NDA as a complete response to their CRL and assigned a PDUFA goal date of May 8, 2018 for completion of the review. Previously, on June 28, 2016, we received a CRL from the FDA on our original NDA submission. A CRL is a communication from the FDA that informs companies that an application cannot be approved in its present form. The CRL identified deficiencies related to the dosing algorithm for the label. Specifically, the proposed titration scheme for clinical practice was significantly different from the titration scheme used in the Phase 3 trial leading to discordance in titration decisions between the Phase 3 trial and real-world clinical practice. In response to the CRL, we met with the FDA in a Post Action meeting, and proposed a dosing regimen to the FDA based on analyses of existing data. The FDA noted that while the proposed dosing regimen might be acceptable, validation in a clinical trial would be needed prior to resubmission. If the FDA denies or further delays approval of TLANDO, our business would be materially and adversely harmed. If the FDA does approve TLANDO, but we are unsuccessful in commercializing TLANDO, our business will be materially and adversely harmed.. The FDA may also require the addition of labeling statements or other warnings or contraindications, require us to perform additional clinical trials or studies or provide additional information in order to secure approval. Any such requirement would increase our costs and delay approval and commercialization of TLANDO and would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. 18. The FDA also convened a BRUDAC meeting on January 10, 2018 to seek input from an expert panel regarding TLANDO prior to the PDUFA date of May 8, 2018. The BRUDAC voted six in favor and thirteen against acceptability of overall benefit/risk profile to support approval of TLANDO as a TRT. As a result, the FDA may not agree with the adequacy of clinical development conducted or clinical data presented. Particularly the FDA may be concerned with TLANDO’s potential for increased adverse cardiovascular outcomes in the population that will likely use the drug, if approved, and observed treatment emergent adverse reactions and/or with the risk associated with (associated with but not limited to) the following clinical endpoints for an oral T product; levels of various analytes observed including testosterone, DHT, TU, DHTU, Estradiol; Cmax secondary endpoint excursions; adequacy of long-term safety database; appropriateness and validation of laboratory assays; data collected and tests performed on clinical subjects including vitals such as blood pressure or blood pressure measurement methodology and relating laboratory parameters including levels of hemoglobin, PSA, hematocrit, prolactin, HDL, LDL, Cholesterol, TG, SHGB, alkaline phosphatase, etc.; discontinuation rates experienced in studies; concerns on laboratory normal ranges for our analyte analysis; reliability of serum T measurements, cosynotropin stimulation results, TLANDO stopping criteria, restrictions on food or meal administered to subjects; and data analysis and statistical approaches. Based on the voting outcome of the BRUDAC meeting, the FDA may or may not view BRUDAC’s TLANDO advice/recommendation similarly which may result in the receipt of a CRL to our NDA resubmission.. We may receive another CRL from the FDA which would result in substantial delays and additional studies and expense before we would be in a position to resubmit an NDA responsive to such additional CRL. Our ability to raise capital may also be impaired. If we proceed with any study, such as an ABPM study, we face the risk that the FDA would not agree with the design or results of the study or the study may find that blood pressure effects of TLANDO are clinically meaningful and approval of TLANDO may be denied.. Even if TLANDO is approved, the FDA may limit the indications for which it may be used, include extensive warnings on the product labeling, or require costly ongoing requirements for post-marketing clinical studies including participation in a long-term TRT consortium cardiovascular study and surveillance or other risk management measures to monitor the safety or efficacy of TLANDO. Further, in the event that we seek regulatory approval of TLANDO outside the United States, such markets also have requirements for approval of drug candidates with which we must comply prior to marketing. Obtaining regulatory approval for marketing of TLANDO in one country does not ensure we will be able to obtain regulatory approval in other countries but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in other countries.. Any regulatory approval of TLANDO, once obtained, may be withdrawn. Ultimately, the failure to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals would prevent TLANDO from being marketed and would have a material adverse effect on our business.. If the FDA clarifies, modifies or restricts the indicated population for T-replacement in the \"class\" label, the market for T-replacement products may shrink and our ability to sell and be reimbursed for TLANDO and LPCN 1111 could be materially adversely affected and our business could be harmed.. On September 17, 2014, the FDA held a T-class Advisory Committee meeting. The Advisory Committee discussed (i) the identification of the appropriate patient population for whom T-replacement therapy should be indicated and (ii) the potential risk of major adverse cardiovascular events, defined as non-fatal stroke, non-fatal myocardial infarction and cardiovascular death associated with T-replacement therapy. At the meeting, 20 of the 21 members of the Advisory Committee voted that the FDA should revise the currently indicated population for T-replacement therapy and recommended changing the label language to restrict the intended uses of the products, particularly in relation to age-related low testosterone. The Committee also supported adding language to the label to guide physicians in better diagnosis of eligible patients for treatment. On March 3, 2015, the FDA issued a safety announcement addressing the Advisory Committee’s recommendations.. The FDA's safety assessment recommended the following label modifications/restrictions in the indicated population for T-replacement therapy:. ·limiting use of T-replacement products to men who have low testosterone caused by certain medical conditions;. ·prior to initiating use of T-replacement products, confirm diagnosis of hypogonadism by ensuring that serum testosterone has been measured in the morning on at least two separate days and that these concentrations are below the normal range;. ·adding cautionary language stating that the safety and efficacy of TRT products with age-related hypogonadism have not been established; and. 19. ·adding cautionary language stating that some studies have shown an increased risk of myocardial infarction and stroke associated with use of T-replacement products.. The actual TRT label revisions have been finalized between the FDA and sponsors with approved T-replacement therapy products. The revised labels are consistent with the FDA's recommendations on March 3, 2015.. Additionally, the FDA stated that they will require manufacturers of approved T-replacement products to conduct a well-designed clinical trial to more clearly address the question of whether an increased risk of heart attack or stroke exists among users of T-replacement products. The FDA encouraged manufacturers to work together on conducting a clinical trial, although the FDA will allow manufacturers to work separately if they so choose. The FDA did not address whether it would require sponsors without an approved T-replacement product to conduct a cardiovascular trial prior to being able to file an NDA. However, on March 19, 2015 we had a pre-NDA meeting with the FDA concerning our pivotal Phase 3 trial for TLANDO. Based on this meeting with the FDA, we do not expect to be required to conduct a heart attack and stroke risk study or any additional safety studies prior to approval of the NDA for TLANDO. The FDA may determine that an ABPM study may be required to better assess any blood pressure effects of TLANDO, a surrogate marker of predicting cardiovascular outcome. If the FDA requires an ABPM study or changes its position, however, and concludes that a cardiovascular trial is required prior to approving our NDA for TLANDO, such trial would require substantial financial resources, and would delay the regulatory process for TLANDO and our entry into the marketplace, all of which would have a material adverse impact on our business. Further, if TLANDO receives FDA approval, it is unclear what our post-approval obligations may be, if any, in relation to a heart attack and stroke risk study. We may be required to contribute to an on-going industry-led heart attack and stroke risk study or to conduct our own long-term heart attack and stroke risk study, either of which would require substantial financial resources and would have a material adverse impact on our business. Regulatory actions related to T-replacement therapy have contributed to a contraction in the market for T-replacement products. If the market for T-replacement products continues to decline, for whatever reason, our business will be materially and adversely harmed.. If T-replacement therapies are found, or are perceived, to create health risks, our ability to sell TLANDO and LPCN 1111 could be materially adversely affected and our business could be harmed. Even if our TLANDO and our LPCN 1111 are approved, physicians and patients may be deterred from prescribing and using T-replacement therapies, which could depress demand for TLANDO and LPCN 1111 and compromise our ability to successfully commercialize TLANDO and LPCN 1111.. Recent publications have suggested potential health risks associated with T-replacement therapy, such as increased cardiovascular disease risk, including increased risk of heart attack or stroke, fluid retention, sleep apnea, breast tenderness or enlargement, increased red blood cells, development of clinical prostate disease, including prostate cancer, and the suppression of sperm production. These potential health risks are described in various articles, including the following publications:. ·a 2014 publication in PLOS ONE, which found that, compared to the one year prior to beginning T-replacement therapy, the risk of heart attack doubled 90 days after the start of T deficiency treatment in older men regardless of their history of heart disease and was two to three times higher in men younger than 65 with a history of heart disease;. ·a 2013 publication in the Journal of the American Medical Association, which reported that hypogonadal men receiving T-replacement therapy developed a 30% increase in the risk of stroke, heart attack and death; and. ·a 2013 publication in BMC Medicine, which concluded that exogenous T increased the risk of cardiovascular-related events, particularly in trials not funded by the pharmaceutical industry.. Prompted by these events, the FDA announced on January 31, 2014 that it will investigate the risk of stroke, heart attack, and death in men taking FDA-approved testosterone products and that the FDA would hold a T-class Advisory Committee meeting on September 17, 2014 to discuss this topic further. The FDA has also asked health care professionals and patients to report side effects involving prescription testosterone products to the agency.. Following the FDA's announcement, the Endocrine Society, a professional medical organization, released a statement in February 2014 in support of further studies regarding the risks and benefits of FDA-approved T-replacement products for men with age-related T deficiency. Specifically, the Endocrine Society noted that large-scale randomized controlled trials are needed to determine the risks and benefits of T-replacement therapy in older men. In addition, the Endocrine Society recommended that patients should be informed of the potential cardiovascular risks in middle-aged and older men associated with T-replacement therapies. Also following the FDA's announcement, Public Citizen, a consumer advocacy organization, petitioned the FDA to add a \"black box\" warning about the increased risks of heart attacks and other cardiovascular dangers to the product labels of all T-replacement therapies. In addition, this petition urged the FDA to delay its decision date on approving Aveed, a long-acting T-injectable developed by Endo, which was subsequently approved by the FDA in March 2014. In July 2014, the FDA responded to the Public Citizen petition and denied the petition. Additionally, in June 2014 the FDA announced that it would require the manufacturers of testosterone drugs to update the warning label to include blood clots including deep vein thrombosis (\"DVT\") and pulmonary embolism (\"PE\").. 20. At the T-class Advisory Committee meeting held on September 17, 2014, the Advisory Committee discussed (i) the identification of the appropriate patient population for whom T-replacement therapy should be indicated and (ii) the potential risk of major adverse cardiovascular events, defined as non-fatal stroke, non-fatal myocardial infarction and cardiovascular death associated with T-replacement therapy. At the meeting, 16 of the 21 members of the Advisory Committee voted that the FDA should require sponsors of testosterone products to conduct a post marketing study (e.g. observational study or controlled clinical trial) to further assess the potential cardiovascular risk. Further, 12 of these voted that such post marketing study be required only if the T-replacement therapy is also approved for age-related hypogonadism.. The Advisory Committee also held a meeting on September 18, 2014 to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Jatenzo (previously Rextoro), an oral TU submitted to the FDA by Clarus Therapeutics for the proposed indication of T-replacement therapy. 18 of the 21 members of the Advisory Committee voted that the overall benefit/risk profile of Jatenzo was not acceptable to support approval for T-replacement therapy. The Advisory Committee agreed that an oral TU as a T-replacement therapy is promising and that it would be of great value to patients to have an oral treatment option, but they did not believe the current Jatenzo data supported approval.. On March 3, 2015, the FDA issued a safety announcement addressing the Advisory Committee’s recommendations and communicated its expectations related to label revisions and additional clinical requirements.. The FDA's safety assessment recommended the following label modifications/restrictions in the indicated population for T-replacement therapy:. ·limiting use of T-replacement products to men who have low testosterone caused by certain medical conditions;. ·prior to initiating use of T-replacement products, confirm diagnosis of hypogonadism by ensuring that serum testosterone has been measured in the morning on at least two separate days and that these concentrations are below the normal range;. ·adding cautionary language stating that the safety and efficacy of TRT products with age-related hypogonadism have not been established; and. ·adding cautionary language stating that some studies have shown an increased risk of myocardial infarction and stroke associated with use of T-replacement products.. Additionally, the FDA stated that they will require manufacturers of approved T-replacement products to conduct a well-designed clinical trial to more clearly address the question of whether an increased risk of heart attack or stroke exists among users of T-replacement products. The FDA encouraged manufacturers to work together on conducting a clinical trial, although the FDA will allow manufacturers to work separately if they so choose.. Also, on October 20, 2017, Antares Pharma, Inc. (“Antares”) announced that it had received a CRL from the FDA regarding its NDA for XYOSTED\231 (testosterone enanthate) injection. The CRL indicated that the FDA cannot approve the XYOSTED NDA in its present form and identified two deficiencies related to clinical data. Based on findings in two clinical studies, the FDA is concerned XYOSTED could cause a clinically meaningful increase in blood pressure. Additionally, the CRL also raised a concern regarding the occurrence of depression and suicidality. Additionally on January 9, 2018, a BRUDAC meeting was held for Jatenzo, Clarus Therapeutics’ testosterone replacement therapy product candidate. The BRUDAC voted nine in favor and ten against the acceptability of the overall benefit/risk profile to support approval of Jatenzo as a TRT.. It is possible that the FDA's evaluation of this topic and further studies on the effects of T-replacement therapies could demonstrate the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events or other health risks or could impose additional requirements that could delay our approval for TLANDO. During our SOAR trial, we collected safety data for TLANDO and a control group, the leading approved T-gel product, but we did not compare safety data from TLANDO to a placebo control group or the control group. If, following its evaluation, the FDA concludes that men using FDA-approved T-replacement therapies face serious cardiovascular risks, it may take actions against T-replacement products generally, which could impact us adversely in a variety of ways, including that the FDA could:. 21. ·require additional safety studies, including an ambulatory blood pressure study, before approving TLANDO;. ·mandate that certain warnings or precautions be included in our product labeling;. ·require that our product carry a \"black box warning\";. ·limit use of TLANDO and LPCN 1111 to certain populations, such as men without specified conditions;. ·direct us to submit a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (\"REMS\") as part of our NDA to help ensure that the benefits of our product outweigh the potential risks;. ·require that we conduct post-marketing studies, potentially including registry, epidemiology or cardiovascular outcomes studies; and. ·limit the prospects for regulatory approval and commercial success of our TLANDO and LPCN 1111.. Additionally, the FDA convened a BRUDAC meeting on January 10, 2018 to evaluate the safety and efficacy of TLANDO as a T-replacement product. The BRUDAC voted six in favor and thirteen against the acceptability of the overall benefit/risk profile to support approval of TLANDO as a TRT.. Demonstrated T-replacement therapy safety risks, as well as negative publicity about the risks of hormone replacement therapy, including T-replacement, could hurt sales of and impair our ability to successfully commercialize TLANDO and LPCN 1111, if approved. On March 19, 2015, we had a pre-NDA meeting with the FDA concerning our pivotal Phase 3 trial for TLANDO. Based on this meeting with the FDA, we do not expect to be required to conduct a heart attack and stroke risk study or any additional safety studies prior to approval of the NDA for TLANDO. The FDA may determine that an ABPM study may be required to better assess any blood pressure effects of TLANDO, a surrogate marker of predicting cardiovascular outcome. If the FDA requires a ABPM study or changes its position, however, and concludes that a cardiovascular trial is required prior to approving our NDA for TLANDO, such trial would require substantial financial resources, would delay the regulatory process for TLANDO and our entry into the marketplace, all of which would have a material adverse impact on our business.. If we fail to obtain adequate healthcare reimbursement for our products, our revenue-generating ability will be diminished and there is no assurance that the anticipated market for our products will be sustained.. We believe that there could be many different applications for products successfully derived from our technologies and that the anticipated market for products under development could continue to expand. However, due to competition from existing or new products, potential changes to the class TRT label by the FDA and the yet to be established commercial viability of our products, no assurance can be given that these beliefs will prove to be correct. Physicians, patients, formularies, payors or the medical community in general may not accept or utilize any products that we or our collaborative partners may develop. Other drugs may be approved during our clinical testing which could change the accepted treatments for the disease targeted and make our compound obsolete.. Our ability to commercialize our products with success may depend, in part, on the extent to which coverage and adequate reimbursement to patients for the cost of such products and related treatment will be available from governmental health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other organizations, as well as the ability of private payors to pay for or afford our drugs. Adequate third-party coverage may not be available to patients to allow us to maintain price levels sufficient for us to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development.. Coverage and adequate reimbursement from governmental healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and commercial payers can be critical to new product acceptance. Coverage decisions may depend upon clinical and economic standards that disfavor new drug products when more established or lower cost therapeutic alternatives are already available or subsequently become available. Additionally, current manufacturers of drug products may have agreements with payors that may limit the ability of new products to get on formulary or require a step edit with an existing product before reimbursement or a new product will occur. Even if we obtain coverage for our products, the resulting reimbursement payment rates might not be adequate or may require co-payments that patients find unacceptably high. Patients are less likely to use our products unless coverage is provided and reimbursement is adequate to cover a significant portion of the cost of our products. Payers may require a more arduous prior authorization process as a condition to payment for TRT therapy. This could adversely affect the market for TRT products.. 22. In the United States and in many other countries, pricing and/or profitability of some or all prescription pharmaceuticals and biopharmaceuticals are subject to varying degrees of government control. Healthcare reform and controls on healthcare spending may limit the price we charge for any products and the amounts thereof that we can sell. In particular, in the United States, the federal government and private insurers have changed and have considered ways to change, the manner in which healthcare services are provided. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“ACA”), as amended by the Healthcare and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, became law in the United States. ACA substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers and significantly affects the healthcare industry. The provisions of ACA of importance to our potential product candidates include the following:. ·an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents;. ·an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program;. ·expansion of healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers, and enhanced penalties for noncompliance;. ·a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D;. ·extension of manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations;. ·expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals beginning in 2014 and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with specified income levels, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability;. ·expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program;. ·new requirements to report annually certain financial arrangements with physicians, certain other healthcare professionals, and teaching hospitals;. ·a new requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to licensed practitioners, pharmacies of hospitals and other healthcare entities; and. ·a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research.. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since ACA was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, created, among other things, measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. On January 2, 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several providers and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 was signed into law on April 16, 2015 and implemented the most significant change in Medicare reimbursement since the ACA was enacted. This 2015 law authorizes a new Medicare pay –for-performance reimbursement system for physicians, which will reward physicians for performance on metrics related to quality of care, resource use, meaningful use of electronic medical records, and clinical practice improvement activities. The Bipartisan Budget Act was enacted on November 2, 2015, and among provisions, restricts the types of facilities that may receive hospital reimbursement under Medicare. These new laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our customers and accordingly, our financial operations.. We anticipate that ACA will result in additional downward pressure on the reimbursement we may receive for any approved and covered product and could seriously harm our business. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare and other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payers. In the future, the U.S. government may institute further controls and different reimbursement schemes and limits on Medicare and Medicaid spending or reimbursement that may affect the payments we could collect from sales of any products in the United States.. 23. Moreover, President Trump has indicated a desire to repeal ACA. The implementation of further cost containment measures or the repeal of ACA or other healthcare reforms may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability, or commercialize our products.. On his first day in office, US President Donald Trump issued an Executive Order to begin the process of dismantling the ACA. The Order affirmatively states the new administration’s intent to seek repeal of the ACA. Although these efforts have not resulted in a wholesale repeal of the ACA, the President and Republicans in Congress have communicated that they will soon unveil plans to repeal and replace the ACA. Approximately 20 million previously uninsured Americans now have coverage because of the ACA. The potential overhaul of the ACA is creating uncertainty for patients, providers, payers and pharmaceutical manufacturers. In the event that millions of people lose their health insurance with repeal and replace, there will be less spending on pharmaceuticals which could have a material adverse effect on our financial operations.. Furthermore, some Congressional leaders have indicated that further significant changes to Medicare and Medicaid benefits and reimbursement must be made in order to manage the federal budget deficit, particularly in light of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Any further legislative or administrative action to reduce reimbursement or health benefits to beneficiaries under the Medicare or Medicaid program could affect the payment we could collect from sale of any product in the United States.. We face substantial competition in the TRT market, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do.. We expect to face significant competition for any of our product candidates, if approved. In particular, if approved, TLANDO would compete in the T-replacement therapies market, which is highly competitive and currently dominated by the sale of T-gels in terms of sales dollars, which accounted for approximately 72% of U.S. sales in the T-replacement therapies market in 2017 according to IMS Health data. Our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to obtain an adequate share of the market. Potential competitors in North America, Europe and elsewhere include major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions and government agencies. Other pharmaceutical companies may develop oral T-replacement therapies that compete with TLANDO. For example, because TU is not a patented compound and is commercially available to third parties, it is possible that competitors may design methods of TU administration that would be outside the scope of the claims of either our issued patents or our patent applications. This would enable their products to effectively compete with TLANDO, which could have a negative effect on our business.. The following T-replacement therapies currently on the market in the United States would compete with TLANDO:. ·T-gels, such as AndroGel (marketed by Abbvie) and Perrigo's AB-rated 1% generic of AndroGel, Testim (marketed by Endo Health Solutions, or Endo), Fortesta (marketed by Endo); and, additionally TEVA has a FDA approval for a T-gel but has not yet launched the product;. ·T-topical solutions, such as Axiron, a metered dose lotion marketed by Eli Lilly and Co. and related authorized generics;. ·T-injectables;. ·Branded longer-acting injectables, such as Aveed (marketed by Endo);. ·T-nasals, such as Natesto (marketed by Aytu);. ·methyl-T, such as Methitest (marketed by Impax) and Testred (marketed by Valeant);. ·transdermal patches, such a Androderm (marketed by Allergan.);. ·buccal patches, such as Striant (marketed by Endo);. ·generic testosterone enanthate intra-muscular injectables;. ·authorized generic T-gels; and. ·subcutaneous injectable pellets, such as Testopel (marketed by Endo).. 24. We are also aware of other pharmaceutical companies that have T-replacement therapies or testosterone therapies in development that may be approved for marketing in the United States or outside of the United States.. Based on publicly available information, we believe that several other T-replacement therapies that would be competitive with TLANDO are in varying stages of development, some of which may be approved, marketed and/or commercialized prior to TLANDO. These therapies include T-gels, oral-T, an aromatase inhibitor, a new class of drugs called Selective Androgen Receptor Modulators and hydroalcoholic gel formulations of DHT.. In light of the competitive landscape above, TLANDO may not be the first oral testosterone replacement therapy to market, which may significantly affect the market acceptance and commercial success of TLANDO.. Furthermore, many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do and significantly greater experience in the discovery and development of drug candidates, obtaining FDA and other marketing approvals of products and the commercialization of those products. These competitors have the economic power to acquire and maintain market share, limiting our ability to penetrate the TRT market with our TLANDO product. Accordingly, our competitors may be more successful than we may be in obtaining FDA approval for drugs and achieving widespread market acceptance. Our competitors’ drugs may be more effective, or more effectively marketed and sold, than our products and may render our products obsolete or non-competitive before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing them. We anticipate that we will face intense and increasing competition as new drugs enter the market and advanced technologies become available. Failure to successfully compete in this market would materially and negatively impact our business and operations.. The entrance of generic T-gels into the market would likely create downward pricing pressure on all T-replacement therapies and therefore have a negative effect on our business and financial results.. Several companies have filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications, or ANDAs, seeking approval for generic versions of existing T-gels. For example, in April 2012 Perrigo Company filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking approval for a generic version of AndroGel 1.62%. In response to this ANDA, the marketer of AndroGel 1.62% filed patent infringement lawsuits against Perrigo Company to block the approval and marketing of the generic product. In August 2015, the FDA approved the ANDA submitted by Perrigo Company and Perrigo’s generic product was also granted 180 days of generic drug exclusivity. The marketer of AndroGel 1.62% may enter into an agreement with Perrigo Company to delay the introduction of a generic AndroGel 1.62%. Additionally, in July 2003, Actavis and Par Pharmaceutical, or Par, filed ANDAs with the FDA seeking approval for generic versions of AndroGel 1%. In response to these ANDAs, the marketer of AndroGel 1% filed patent infringement lawsuits against these two companies to block the approval and marketing of the generic products. In 2006, all the subject companies reached an agreement pursuant to which Actavis agreed not to bring a generic version of AndroGel 1% to the market until August 2015, and Par agreed not to bring a generic version to market until February 2016. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission has questioned the legality of such “pay-to-delay” agreements, and the Supreme Court ruled in June 2013 that such agreements may not be valid. The impact of this ruling on the agreements between the marketer of AndroGel 1% and Actavis and Par, as well as the timing and eventual marketing of generic versions of their respective products, is uncertain at this point.. Additionally, there are several other ANDAs for generic T-gels that have been filed and there is ongoing litigation with each of these ANDAs. Finally, in 2014, two authorized generic T-gels were launched at a lower price than the branded version of the same T-gel. If a generic version of T-gel were to become available in the market, governmental and other pressures to reduce pharmaceutical costs may result in physicians writing prescriptions for generic T-gels as opposed to branded T-gels. The entrance of any generic T-gel into the market would likely cause downward pressure on the pricing of all T-replacement therapies and could materially and adversely affect the level of sales and price at which we could sell TLANDO, and ultimately materially and adversely impact our revenues and financial results.. The introduction of generic T-gel, may also affect the reimbursement policies of government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations. These organizations determine which medications they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. Cost containment is a primary concern in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere. Government authorities and these third-party payers have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for branded medications when there is a generic available. If generic T-gel is available in the market, that may create an additional obstacle to the availability of reimbursement for TLANDO. Even if reimbursement is available, the level of such reimbursement could be reduced or limited. Reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of, TLANDO. If reimbursement is not available or is available only at limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize TLANDO, and/or our financial results from the sale of related products could be negatively and materially impacted. Rebates and other pricing strategies of generics may erode our revenue and harm our financial performance.. 25. Additionally, TLANDO may not be the first oral testosterone replacement therapy product to market. In this event, if the generic version of a competing oral testosterone replacement therapy product enters the market before our product, then the commercial prospects of TLANDO could be materially and negatively impacted.. We will not be able to successfully commercialize our product candidates without establishing sales, marketing and market access capabilities internally or through collaborators.. We currently have a limited sales, marketing and market access staff. This staff was reduced in July 2016 following the receipt of the CRL for TLANDO and further reduced in October 2016. If and when any of our product candidates are commercialized, we may not be able to find suitable sales and marketing staff and collaborators for TLANDO or our other product candidates. The existing sales, marketing and market access staff and outside collaborators we work with may not be adequate or successful and any collaborators could terminate or materially reduce the effort they direct to our products. The development of collaborations or an internal sales force and marketing, market access and sales capability will require significant capital, management resources and time. The cost of establishing such a sales force may exceed any potential product revenues and our marketing, market access and sales efforts may be unsuccessful. If we are unable to develop an internal marketing, market access and sales capability or if we are unable to enter into a marketing and sales arrangement with a third party on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully commercialize TLANDO or develop and seek regulatory approval for our other product candidates.. LPCN 1107 is in a very early stage of development and may not be further developed for a variety of reasons.. LPCN 1107 is in a very early stage of development and consequently the risk that we fail to commercialize LPCN 1107 and related products is high. In particular, we have only conducted three Phase 1 clinical studies with this product candidate. Two of the studies were in healthy pregnant women and one was in healthy women. Although these studies demonstrated oral absorption of LPCN 1107 is possible, we may not be able to match or exceed Cavg blood levels shown with the intramuscular injection comparator product over a longer duration. Furthermore, our completed Phase 1 clinical studies may not be predictive of safety concerns that may arise in pregnant women or demonstrate that LPCN 1107 has an adequate safety profile to warrant further development. The FDA may also require further preclinical studies. All of these factors can impact the timing of and our ability to continue development of LPCN 1107.. In addition, a number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late stage clinical trials, even after achieving positive results in early stage development. Accordingly, our results from our Phase 1a, our Phase 1b and our multi-dose PK dose selection studies may not be predictive of the results we may obtain from further studies and trials.. A traditional pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics (“PK/PD”) based Phase 2 clinical study in the intended patient population may not be required prior to entering into Phase 3. Therefore, based on the results of our multi-dose PK study results, we had an End-of-Phase 2 meeting with the FDA in the second quarter of 2016, as well as subsequent guidance meetings to agree on a Phase 3 development plan for LPCN 1107. During the End-of-Phase 2 meeting and subsequent guidance meetings, the FDA agreed to a randomized, open-label, two-arm clinical study to include a LPCN 1107 arm and a comparator IM arm with treatment up to 23 weeks. The FDA also provided feedback on other critical Phase 3 study design considerations including: positive feedback on the proposed 800 mg BID Phase 3 dose and dosing regimen; confirmation of the use of a surrogate primary endpoint focusing on rate of delivery less than 37 weeks gestation rather on clinical infant outcomes; acknowledged that the use of a gestational age endpoint would likely lead to FDA approval, if granted, being a Subpart H approval as opposed to a full approval; and, recommended a non-inferiority study margin of 7% with interim analyses. A standard statistical design for a NI study based on the FDA suggested NI margin of 7% for the primary end point may require ~1,100 subjects per treatment arm with a 90% power. However, based on the FDA’s feedback of including an interim analysis in the NI design, an adaptive study design is under consideration that may allow for fewer subjects. We submitted the initial LPCN 1107 Phase 3 protocol to the FDA via a SPA in June 2017 and have received multiple rounds of FDA feedback. Agreement with the FDA on the Phase 3 protocol via SPA has not occurred and will not occur until results from a planned food-effect study with LPCN 1107 are reviewed by the FDA. Final agreement with the FDA on the Phase 3 protocol, if reached, may or may not confirm the FDA’s preliminary feedback on the Phase 3 design. Additionally, manufacturing scale-up work for LPCN 1107 has been complete. Once the Phase 3 clinical trial is started, the anticipated Phase 3 program for an NDA filing for LPCN 1107 will be very long and expensive.. LPCN 1111 is in a very early stage of development and may not be further developed for a variety of reasons.. LPCN 1111 is in a very early stage of development. We have completed a Phase 2a and Phase 2b study in hypogonadal men. Results from the Phase 2a clinical study demonstrated the feasibility of a once daily dosing with LPCN 1111 in hypogonadal men and a good dose response. Results of the Phase 2b study suggest that the primary objectives were met, including identifying the dose expected to be tested in a Phase 3 study. Future studies may not have similar clinical results. Additionally, we have preliminary data demonstrating absorption of LPCN 1111 in dogs and in postmenopausal females.. 26. In addition, the active ingredient in LPCN 1111 has only been manufactured on a small scale. Scaling up into larger batches could be challenging and our ability to procure adequate material in a timely manner to further develop LPCN 1111 is uncertain. We also may not be able to engage a manufacturer who can supply adequate quantities of the drug substance in compliance with Current Good Manufacturing Practices (\"cGMP\").. Several factors could significantly affect the prospects for LPCN 1111, including factors relating to the regulatory approval and clinical development challenges for LPCN 1111 discussed above. The anticipated Phase 3 program for an NDA filing for LPCN 1111, however, could be very long and expensive.. Our research and development programs and processes are at an early stage of development, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects, or predict if or when we will successfully commercialize our product candidates.. Our operations to date have primarily been limited to conducting research and development activities under license and collaboration agreements. Our current portfolio consists of our lead product candidate TLANDO as well as two additional earlier stage clinical candidates, LPCN 1111 and LPCN 1107. We have never marketed or commercialized a drug product. Consequently, any predictions about our future performance may not be as accurate as they could be if we were further along our commercialization path. In addition, as a pre-commercial stage business, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors.. Our clinical product candidates are at an early stage of development and will require significant further investment and regulatory approvals prior to marketing and commercialization. As such, our product development processes for TLANDO, LPCN 1111 and LPCN 1107 are very risky and uncertain, and our product candidates may fail to advance beyond the current study. Even if we obtain required financing, we cannot ensure successful product development or that we will obtain regulatory approval or successfully commercialize any of our product candidates and generate product revenues.. All of our clinical candidates will be subject to extensive regulation which can be costly and time consuming, cause delays or prevent approval of the products for commercialization.. Our clinical development of TLANDO, LPCN 1111, LPCN 1107 and any future product candidates, is subject to extensive regulations by the FDA. Product development is a very lengthy and expensive process and can vary significantly based upon the product candidate’s novelty and complexity. Regulations are subject to change and regulatory agencies have significant discretion in the approval process.. Numerous statutes and regulations govern human testing and the manufacture and sale of human therapeutic products in the United States. Such legislation and regulation bears upon, among other things, the approval of protocols and human testing, the approval of manufacturing facilities, safety of the product candidates, testing procedures and controlled research, review and approval of manufacturing, preclinical and clinical data prior to marketing approval including adherence to cGMP during production and storage as well as regulation of marketing activities including advertising and labeling.. In order to obtain regulatory clearance for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates, we must demonstrate through preclinical studies and clinical trials that the potential product is safe and efficacious for use in humans for each target indication. Obtaining approval of any of our product candidates is an extensive, lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and the FDA may delay, limit or deny approval for many reasons, including:. •we may not be able to demonstrate that the product candidate is safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA;. •the results of our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical or clinical significance required by the FDA for marketing approval;. •the FDA may disagree with the number, design, size, conduct or implementation of our clinical trials;. •the contract research organization (“CRO”) that we retain to manage our clinical trials may take actions outside of our control that materially adversely impact our clinical trials;. •the FDA may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient to demonstrate that a particular product candidate’s clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks;. •the FDA may disagree with our interpretation of data from our preclinical studies and clinical trials or may require that we conduct additional trials;. •the FDA may not accept data generated at our clinical trial sites;. 27. •if our NDA once submitted is reviewed by an Advisory Committee, the FDA may have difficulties scheduling an advisory committee meeting in a timely manner or the advisory committee may recommend against approval of our application or may recommend that the FDA require, as a condition of approval, additional preclinical studies or clinical trials, limitations on approved labeling or distribution and use restrictions;. •the FDA may require development of a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (“REMS”) as a condition of approval;. •the FDA may require longer or additional duration of stability data on the clinical lots prior to initiation of further clinical trials;. •the FDA may identify deficiencies in the formulation or stability of our product candidates or products, or relating to our manufacturing processes or facilities, or in the processes and facilities of the contract manufacturing organization, or CMO, our suppliers or other third parties that may be utilized in the production supply chain of our products; and. •with respect to TLANDO and LPCN 1111, the FDA may not grant a five-year exclusivity as the active is a Testosterone prodrug.. Preclinical and clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in preclinical studies and clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain FDA approval for their products.. No assurance can be given that current regulations relating to regulatory approval will not change or become more stringent. The FDA may also require that we amend clinical trial protocols and/or run additional trials in order to provide additional information regarding the safety, efficacy or equivalency of any compound for which we seek regulatory approval. Moreover, any regulatory approval of a drug which is eventually obtained may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which that drug may be marketed. Furthermore, product approvals may be withdrawn or limited in some way if problems occur following initial marketing or if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained. FDA could become more risk averse to any side effects or set higher standards of safety and efficacy prior to reviewing or approving a product. This could result in a product not being approved.. Even if we receive marketing approval in the United States, we may never receive regulatory approval to market our products outside the United States, which could reduce the size of our potential markets and have a material adverse impact on our business.. In order to market any products outside of the United States, we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy.. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product candidate testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approvals in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The marketing approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States as well as other risks. In particular, in many countries outside of the United States, products must receive pricing and reimbursement approval before the product can be commercialized. This can result in substantial delays in such countries. Marketing approval in one country does not ensure marketing approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining marketing approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain marketing approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval would impair our ability to market our products in such foreign markets. Any such impairment would reduce the size of our potential markets, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and prospects.. We are subject to stringent government regulations concerning the clinical testing of our products and will continue to be subject to government regulation of any product that receives regulatory approval.. Numerous statutes and regulations govern human testing and the manufacture and sale of human therapeutic products in the United States and other countries where we intend to market our products. Such legislation and regulation bears upon, among other things, the approval of clinical study protocols and human testing of our products, the approval of manufacturing facilities, testing procedures and controlled research, the review and approval of manufacturing, preclinical and clinical data prior to marketing approval, including adherence to cGMP during production and storage, and marketing activities including advertising and labeling.. Clinical trials may be delayed or suspended at any time by us or by the FDA or by other similar regulatory authorities if it is determined at any time that patients may be or are being exposed to unacceptable health risks, including the risk of death, or if compounds are not manufactured under acceptable cGMP conditions or with acceptable quality. Current regulations relating to regulatory approval may change or become more stringent. The agencies may also require additional clinical trials to be run in order to provide additional information regarding the safety, efficacy or equivalency of any compound for which we seek regulatory approval. Moreover, any regulatory approval of a drug which is eventually obtained may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which that drug may be marketed. Furthermore, product approvals may be withdrawn or limited in some way if problems occur following initial marketing or if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained. Regulatory agencies could become more risk adverse to any side effects or set higher standards of safety and efficacy prior to reviewing or approving a product. This could result in a product not being approved.. 28. If we, or any future marketing collaborators or CMOs, fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to sanctions including fines, product recalls or seizures and related publicity requirements, injunctions, total or partial suspension of production, civil penalties, suspension or withdrawals of previously granted regulatory approvals, warning or untitled letters, refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new products or of supplements to approved applications, import or export bans or restrictions, and criminal prosecution and penalties. Any of these penalties could delay or prevent the promotion, marketing or sale of our products.. The successful commercialization of our product candidates and ability to generate significant revenue will depend on achieving market acceptance.. Even if our product candidates are successfully developed and receive regulatory approval, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers such as private insurers or governments and other funding parties and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance for our products, if approved, will depend on a number of factors, including:. •the relative convenience and ease of administration, including as compared to alternative treatments and competitive therapies;. •the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects;. •limitations or warnings contained in the labeling approved by the FDA;. •availability of alternative treatments, including a number of competitive therapies already approved or expected to be commercially launched in the near future;. •distribution and use restrictions imposed by the FDA or agreed to by us as part of a mandatory REMS or voluntary risk management plan;. •pricing and cost effectiveness;. •the effectiveness of our or any future collaborators’ sales and marketing strategies;. •our ability to increase awareness of our products through marketing efforts;. •our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement; and. •the willingness of patients to pay out-of-pocket in the absence of third-party coverage.. If our product candidates are approved but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, healthcare payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from our products and we may never become or remain profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of our products may require significant resources and may never be successful.. Even if we obtain marketing approval for our products, physicians and patients using existing products may choose not to switch to our products.. Physicians often show a reluctance to switch their patients from existing drug products even when new and potentially more effective and convenient treatments enter the market. Also, physicians may be reluctant to switch patients if adequate reimbursement for new products is not available. In addition, patients often acclimate to the brand or type of drug product that they are currently taking and do not want to switch unless their physicians recommend switching products or they are required to switch drug treatments due to lack of reimbursement for existing drug treatments and only if the new product has adequate reimbursement. The existence of either or both of physician or patient reluctance in switching to our products would have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses. If we are found to have improperly promoted off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability.. The FDA and other regulatory agencies strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products, such as our product candidates. In particular, a product may not be promoted for uses that are not approved by the FDA or such other regulatory agencies as reflected in the product’s approved labeling. The FDA may impose further requirements or restrictions on the distribution or use of our product candidates as part of a REMS plan, such as limiting prescribing to certain physicians or medical centers that have undergone specialized training, limiting treatment to patients who meet certain safe-use criteria and requiring treated patients to enroll in a registry. If we receive marketing approval for our product candidates, physicians may nevertheless prescribe our products to their patients in a manner that is inconsistent with the approved label. If we are found to have promoted such off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability, including potential liability under federal civil and criminal false claims acts. The federal government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion and has enjoined several companies from engaging in off-label promotion. The FDA has also requested that companies enter into consent decrees or permanent injunctions under which specified promotional conduct is changed or curtailed.. 29. If we fail to comply with federal and state healthcare laws, including fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws, we could face substantial penalties and our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected.. As a pharmaceutical company, even though we do not and will not control referrals of healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payers, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients’ rights are and will be applicable to our business. We could be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include:. •the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which constrains our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing policies, and relationships with healthcare providers or other entities, by prohibiting, among other things, soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce, or \t in return for, either the referral of an individual or the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs;. •federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent;. •the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which among other things created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters;. •the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which, among other things, requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under certain federal healthcare programs to report annually information related to “payments or other transfers of value” made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, and ownership and investment interests held by certain healthcare professionals and their immediate family members;. •HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, and its implementing regulations, which imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; and. •state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including commercial insurers, and state and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts.. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of available statutory and regulatory exceptions, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. To the extent that any of our product candidates is ultimately sold in countries other than the United States, we may be subject to similar laws and regulations in those countries. If we or our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, exclusion from participating in government healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could materially adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Although compliance programs can mitigate the risk of investigation and prosecution for violations of these laws, the risks cannot be entirely eliminated. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security and fraud laws may prove costly.. 30. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our chief executive officer and other key executives and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.. We are highly dependent on Dr. Mahesh V. Patel and the other principal members of our executive team. Employment with our executives and other employees are “at will”, meaning that there is no mandatory fixed term and their employment with us may be terminated by us or by them for any or no reason. The loss of the services of any of our executives or other key employees might impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives. Following the receipt of the CRL for LPCN, we reduced our workforce by 8 positions, constituting 33% of our workforce. The reduction in workforce involved all functional disciplines. Further, subsequent to our Post Action meeting with the FDA for TLANDO, we reduced our workforce by two positions in October 2016. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel, accounting personnel and sales and marketing personnel will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all, given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific personnel from universities and research institutions. Failure to succeed in clinical trials may make it more challenging to recruit and retain qualified scientific personnel.. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us.. We will need to grow our company, and we may encounter difficulties in managing this growth, which could disrupt our operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had only 14 employees. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Also, our management may need to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from our day-to-day activities and devote a substantial amount of time to managing these growth activities. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. This may result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, give rise to operational mistakes, loss of business opportunities, loss of employees and reduced productivity among remaining employees. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of TLANDO. If our management is unable to effectively manage our future growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our ability to generate revenue could be reduced and we may not be able to implement our business strategy. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our product candidates and compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth.. Recent federal legislation and actions by state and local governments may permit re-importation of drugs from foreign countries into the United States, including foreign countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the United States, which could materially adversely affect our operating results.. We may face competition for TLANDO, if approved, from lower priced T-replacement therapies from foreign countries that have placed price controls on pharmaceutical products. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (“MMA”) contains provisions that may change U.S. importation laws and expand pharmacists’ and wholesalers’ ability to import lower priced versions of an approved drug and competing products from Canada, where there are government price controls. These changes to U.S. importation laws will not take effect unless and until the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifies that the changes will pose no additional risk to the public’s health and safety and will result in a significant reduction in the cost of products to consumers. The Secretary of Health and Human Services has not yet announced any plans to make this required certification.. A number of federal legislative proposals have been made to implement the changes to the U.S. importation laws without any certification and to broaden permissible imports in other ways. Even if the changes do not take effect, and other changes are not enacted, imports from Canada and elsewhere may continue to increase due to market and political forces, and the limited enforcement resources of the FDA, U.S. Customs and Border Protection and other government agencies. For example, Pub. L. No. 111-83, which was signed into law in October 2009, which provides appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security for the 2010 fiscal year, expressly prohibits U.S. Customs and Border Protection from using funds to prevent individuals from importing from Canada less than a 90-day supply of a prescription drug for personal use, when the drug otherwise complies with the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Further, several states and local governments have implemented importation schemes for their citizens, and, in the absence of federal action to curtail such activities, we expect other states and local governments to launch importation efforts.. The importation of foreign products that compete with our products could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability.. We may become subject to the risk of product liability claims.. We face an inherent risk of product liability as a result of the clinical testing of our product candidates and will face an even greater risk if we commercialize any products. Human therapeutic products involve the risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. Currently, the principal risks we face relate to patients in our clinical trials, who may suffer unintended consequences. Claims might be made by patients, healthcare providers or pharmaceutical companies or others. We may be sued if any product we develop allegedly causes injury or is found to be otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale.. 31. For example, to our knowledge, hydroxyprogesterone caproate (“HPC”) has not been administered orally in a published clinical trial in any pregnant woman for the prevention of preterm birth. We cannot be certain of the safety profile upon single oral or multiple oral administration of LPCN 1107 to the patient or the fetus and its long term side effects on the mother as well as the child because (i) oral performance of LPCN 1107 may be substantially different from efficacy and/or safety standpoint compared to FDA approved and commercialized intramuscular HPC, Makena, and (ii) oral delivery of HPC could have a very different pharmokinetic and/or pharmacodynamic profile that has never been experienced with non-oral administration of HPC, thus having its own significant liability exposure independent of known safety of non-oral HPC in humans.. Any product liability claims may include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product, negligence, strict liability and a breach of warranties. Claims could also be asserted under state consumer protection acts. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our product candidates, if approved. Even successful defense would require significant financial and management resources. Regardless of the merits or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:. •decreased demand for our product candidates;. •injury to our reputation;. •withdrawal of clinical trial participants;. •initiation of investigations by regulators;. •costs to defend the related litigation;. •a diversion of management’s time and our resources;. •substantial monetary awards to trial participants or patients;. •product recalls, withdrawals or labeling, marketing or promotional restrictions;. •loss of revenues from product sales; and. •the inability to commercialize any of our product candidates, if approved.. We may not have or be able to obtain or maintain sufficient and affordable insurance coverage, and without sufficient coverage any claim brought against us could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We run clinical trials through investigators that could be negligent through no fault of our own and which could affect patients, cause potential liability claims against us and result in delayed or stopped clinical trials. We are required in many cases by contractual obligations, to indemnify collaborators, partners, third party contractors, clinical investigators and institutions. These indemnifications could result in a material impact due to product liability claims against us and/or these groups. We currently carry $3 million in product liability insurance, which we believe is appropriate for our clinical trials. Although we maintain such insurance, any claim that may be brought against us could result in a court judgment or settlement in an amount that is not covered, in whole or in part, by our insurance or that is in excess of the limits of our insurance coverage. Our insurance policies also have various exclusions, and we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no coverage. We will have to pay any amounts awarded by a court or negotiated in a settlement that exceed our coverage limitations or that are not covered by our insurance, and we may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient capital to pay such amounts.. Testosterone is a Schedule III substance under the Controlled Substances Act and any failure to comply with this Act or its state equivalents would have a negative impact on our business.. Testosterone is listed by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency, or DEA, as a Schedule III substance under the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. The DEA classifies substances as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances, with Schedule I substances considered to present the highest risk of substance abuse and Schedule V substances the lowest risk. Scheduled substances are subject to DEA regulations relating to manufacturing, storage, distribution and physician prescription procedures. For example, all regular Schedule III drug prescriptions must be signed by a physician and may not be refilled more than six months after the date of the original prescription or more than five times unless renewed by the physician.. Entities must register annually with the DEA to manufacture, distribute, dispense, import, export and conduct research using controlled substances. In addition, the DEA requires entities handling controlled substances to maintain records and file reports, follow specific labeling and packaging requirements, and provide appropriate security measures to control against diversion of controlled substances. Failure to follow these requirements can lead to significant civil and/or criminal penalties and possibly even lead to a revocation of a DEA registration. Individual states also have controlled substances laws. State controlled substances laws often mirror federal law, however because the states are separate jurisdictions, they may schedule products separately. While some states automatically schedule a drug when the DEA does so, in other states there must be rulemaking or legislative action, which could delay commercialization.. 32. Our clinical lots of TLANDO for the Phase 3 trials were manufactured in the United Kingdom, or UK. This entailed obtaining additional permits from regulatory authorities in the United States and UK relating to exportation of our active TU, a controlled substance from the United States and importation of the same into the UK, and exportation of finished product from the UK and importation of the same into the United States. Although we were able to manufacture clinical supplies and import these supplies into the United States, these additional requirements could significantly delay the manufacture of the commercial supplies.. Products containing controlled substances may generate public controversy. As a result, these products may have their marketing approvals withdrawn. Political pressures and adverse publicity could lead to delays in, and increased expenses for, and limit or restrict, the introduction and marketing of TLANDO.. We may have to dedicate resources to the defense and resolution of litigation.. On July 1, 2016, the Company and certain of its officers were named as defendants in a purported shareholder class action lawsuit, David Lewis v. Lipocine Inc., et al., filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. This initial action was followed by additional lawsuits also filed in the District of New Jersey. The lawsuits contain substantially identical allegations and allege that the defendants made false and/or misleading statements and/or failed to disclose that our filing of the NDA for TLANDO to the FDA contained deficiencies and as a result the defendants’ statements about our business and operations were false and misleading and/or lacked a reasonable basis in violation of federal securities laws. The lawsuits seek certification as a class action, compensatory damages in an unspecified amount, and unspecified equitable or injunctive relief. On February 15, 2018, the Company and the other defendants entered into a memorandum of understanding to settle the purported securities class action litigation. Additionally on November 2, 2015, Clarus Therapeutics filed a complaint against us in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware alleging that TLANDO will infringe Clarus’ 428 patent. The Clarus complaint was dismissed by the District Court in 2016, because at the time there was no actionable infringement on Clarus’ 428 patent. While the Clarus complaint has been dismissed, the possibility remains that Clarus could submit its claim again if TLANDO is approved by the FDA and enters the marketplace.. Securities legislation in the United States makes it relatively easy for stockholders to sue. This can lead to frivolous law suits which take substantial time, money, resources and attention or force us to settle such claims rather than seek adequate judicial remedy or dismissal of such claims. Historically, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. Biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, including the Company, have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years, increasing the risk of such litigation. As we defend the class action lawsuits or future patent infringement actions should they be filed, or if we are required to defend additional actions brought by other shareholders, we may be required to pay substantial litigation costs and managerial attention and financial resources may be diverted from business operations even if the outcome is in our favor.. Cyber security risks and the failure to maintain the integrity of company, employee or guest data could expose us to data loss, litigation and liability, and our reputation could be significantly harmed.. We collect and third parties collaborating on our clinical trials collect and retain large volumes of data, including personally identifiable information regarding clinical trial participants and others, for business purposes, including for regulatory, research and development and commercialization purposes, and our collaborators’ various information technology systems enter, process, summarize and report such data. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of our company, employee and clinical data is critical to our business. We are subject to significant security and privacy regulations, as well as requirements imposed by government regulation. Maintaining compliance with these evolving regulations and requirements could be difficult and may increase our expenses. In addition, a penetrated or compromised data system or the intentional, inadvertent or negligent release or disclosure of data could result in theft, loss or fraudulent or unlawful use of company, employee or clinical data which could harm our reputation, disrupt our operations, or result in remedial and other costs, fines or lawsuits.. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties. We rely upon third-party contractors and service providers for the execution of some aspects of our development programs. Failure of these collaborators to provide services of a suitable quality and within acceptable timeframes may cause the delay or failure of our development programs.. We outsource certain functions, tests and services to CROs, medical institutions and collaborators as well as outsourcing manufacturing to collaborators and/or contract manufacturers. We also rely on third parties for quality assurance, clinical monitoring, clinical data management and regulatory expertise. We may also engage a CRO to run all aspects of a clinical trial on our behalf. There is no assurance that such individuals or organizations will be able to provide the functions, tests, drug supply or services as agreed upon or in a quality fashion. Any failure to do so could cause us to suffer significant delays in the development of our products or processes.. 33. Due to our reliance on CROs or other third parties to assist us or have historically assisted us in conducting clinical trials, we will be unable to directly control all aspects of our clinical trials.. We engaged a CRO to conduct our pivotal Phase 3 trial for TLANDO as well as the on-going DV and DF studies for TLANDO. As a result, we have less direct control over the conduct of our clinical trials, the timing and completion of the trials and the management of data developed through the trials than if we were relying entirely upon our own staff. Communicating with outside parties can also be challenging, potentially leading to mistakes as well as difficulties in coordinating activities. Outside parties, including CROs, may:. •have staffing difficulties or disruptions;. •fail to comply with contractual obligations;. •experience regulatory compliance issues;. •undergo changes in priorities or may become financially distressed;. •form relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors; or. •manufacturing capacity limitations.. These factors may materially adversely affect their willingness or ability to conduct our trials in a manner acceptable to us. We may experience unexpected cost increases that are beyond our control.. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices, or GCP, for conducting, recording, and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements.. Problems with the timeliness or quality of the work of a CRO may lead us to seek to terminate the relationship and use an alternative service provider. However, making this change may be costly and may delay our trials, and contractual restrictions may make such a change difficult or impossible. If we must replace any CRO that is conducting our clinical trials, our trials may have to be suspended until we find another CRO that offers comparable services. The time that it takes us to find alternative organizations may cause a delay in the commercialization of our product candidates or may cause us to incur significant expenses to replicate data that may be lost. Although we do not believe that any CRO on which we may rely will offer services that are not available elsewhere, it may be difficult to find a replacement organization that can conduct our trials in an acceptable manner and at an acceptable cost. Any delay in or inability to complete our clinical trials could significantly compromise our ability to secure regulatory approval of our product candidates and preclude our ability to commercialize them, thereby limiting or preventing our ability to generate revenue from their sales.. We rely on a single supplier for our supply of TU, the active pharmaceutical ingredient of TLANDO, and the loss of this supplier could harm our business.. We rely on a single third-party supplier for our supply of TU, the active pharmaceutical ingredient of TLANDO. We have a supply agreement in place with this supplier. We have purchased sufficient quantities of TU for our on-going DV and DF studies as well as for early commercial launch supplies should TLANDO get approved by the FDA. We plan on using this same supplier for our commercialization needs if TLANDO is approved. Since there are only a limited number of TU suppliers in the world, if this supplier ceases to provide us with TU, we may be unable to procure TU on commercially favorable terms, may not be able to obtain it in a timely manner, or may not be able to qualify a new supplier timely post FDA approval, if that occurs. Furthermore, the limited number of suppliers of TU may provide such companies with greater opportunity to raise their prices. Any increase in price for TU will likely reduce our gross margins.. We rely on limited suppliers for our supply of inactive ingredients and the loss of these suppliers could harm our business.. We rely on limited qualified third-party raw material suppliers for our supply of inactive ingredients of TLANDO. We do not have supply agreements in place with these suppliers. We purchased sufficient quantities of these inactives for our on-going DV and DF studies as well as for early commercial launch of TLANDO if it is approved. We plan on using these same suppliers for our commercialization needs if TLANDO is approved. We may be unable to procure inactives on commercially favorable terms, or may not be able to obtain them in a timely manner. Any increase in price for inactives will likely reduce our gross margins.. 34. We depend on M.W. Encap Ltd. for the supply of the TLANDO capsules and the loss of this supplier would significantly harm our business.. We have entered into a Commercial Manufacturing Services and Supply Agreement with M.W. Encap Ltd. (“Encap”), a United Kingdom based contract manufacturer, a division of Capsugel Dosage Form Solutions. Pursuant to the Agreement, Encap has agreed to manufacture and supply bulk commercial quantities of TLANDO. Encap is currently our sole contract manufacturer and is our sole supplier of TLANDO for our clinical trials on a worldwide basis. If Encap is unable to produce sufficient capsules, for whatever reason, to support demand for TLANDO if it becomes commercially available, our revenue and profitability would be materially and adversely harmed. Also, we may not be able to engage an alternative supplier to meet our needs.. Reliance on a third-party manufacturer involves risks, such as capacity and capabilities of the manufacturer to which we would not be subject if we manufactured TLANDO ourselves. We also face risks related to reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance, the possibility of breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control and the possibility of termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or damaging to us. The FDA and other regulatory authorities require that TLANDO be manufactured according to cGMP. Any failure by any third-party manufacturers to comply with cGMP could be the basis for action by the FDA to withdraw approvals previously granted to us and for other regulatory action against us.. If we do not establish successful collaborations, we may have to alter our development and commercialization plans for our products.. Our drug development programs for our product candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. We have not yet established any collaborative arrangements relating to the development or commercialization of TLANDO, LPCN 1111 or LPCN 1107. We intend to continue to develop our product candidates in the United States without a partner. However, in order to commercialize our product candidates in the United States, we will likely look to establish a partnership or co-promotion arrangement with an established pharmaceutical company that has a sales force, collaborate on the establishment of an internal sales force or build an internal sales force on our own. We may also seek to enter into collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize our product candidates outside the United States. We will face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators and these collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on acceptable terms or in a timely manner, or at all. If that were to occur, we may have to curtail the development or delay commercialization of our product candidates in certain geographies, reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities, reduce the scope of our commercialization plans, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities either inside or outside of the United States on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.. If we are successful in entering into collaborative arrangements and any of our collaborative partners does not devote sufficient time and resources to a collaboration arrangement with us, we may not realize the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement, and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In addition, if any future collaboration partner were to breach or terminate its arrangements with us, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue development and commercialization of our product candidates on our own in such locations.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Our stock price could decline significantly based on the results and timing of clinical trials, and/or regulatory and other decisions affecting our product candidates.. Results of clinical trials and preclinical studies of our current and potential product candidates may not be viewed favorably by us or third parties, including the FDA or other regulatory authorities, investors, analysts and potential collaborators. The same may be true of how we design the clinical trials of our product candidates and regulatory decisions affecting those clinical trials. Pharmaceutical company stock prices have declined significantly when such results and decisions were unfavorable or perceived negatively or when a product candidate did not otherwise meet expectations. The final results from our clinical development programs may be negative, may not meet expectations or may be perceived negatively. The designs of our clinical trials (which may change significantly and be more expensive than currently anticipated depending on our clinical results and regulatory decisions) may also be viewed negatively by third parties. We may not be successful in completing these clinical trials on our projected timetable, if at all. In addition, we may never achieve FDA approval for any of our product candidates, which could cause our stock price to decline significantly and have other significant adverse effects on our business.. 35. If we do not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Additionally, our accounting firm is required to provide an opinion regarding our internal controls over financial reporting on an annual basis. If material weaknesses are identified in the future or we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, our reported financial results could be materially misstated, we could receive an adverse opinion regarding our internal controls over financial reporting from our accounting firm, and we could be subject to investigations or sanctions by regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources, and the market price of our stock could decline.. We will incur additional expenses to comply with the requirements of being a public company in the United States.. As a public company, we incur significantly more legal, accounting and other expenses than as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and U.S. stock exchanges impose numerous requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Also, the Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to compliance with these laws and regulations. These requirements have increased and will continue to increase our legal, accounting, and financial compliance costs and have made and will continue to make some activities more time consuming and costly.. Our share price is expected to be volatile and may be influenced by numerous factors that are beyond our control.. A low share price and low market valuation may make it difficult to raise sufficient additional cash due to the significant dilution to current stockholders. Market prices for shares of biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies such as ours are often volatile. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including:. ·our ability to address the deficiencies noted in the CRL for TLANDO;. ·plans for, progress of and results from clinical trials of our product candidates;. ·the failure of the FDA to approve our product candidates and resulting CRL;. ·regulatory uncertainty in the TRT class;. ·FDA Advisory Committee meetings and related recommendations including meetings convened on the TRT class or on similar companies;. ·announcements by the FDA that may impact on-going clinical studies related to safety or efficacy of TRT products;. ·announcements of new products, technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by us or our competitors;. ·failure to engage with collaborators or build an internal sales force to commercialize our products;. ·the success or failure of other TRT products or non-testosterone based testosterone therapy products;. ·failure of our products, if approved, to achieve commercial success;. ·fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies;. ·general market conditions and overall fluctuations in U.S. equity markets;. ·variations in our quarterly operating results;. 36. ·changes in our financial guidance or securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance;. ·changes in accounting principles;. ·sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders;. ·additions or departures of key personnel;. ·discussion of us or our stock price by the press and by online investor communities;. ·our cash balance; and. ·other risks and uncertainties described in these risk factors.. In recent years, the stock of other biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies has experienced extreme price fluctuations that have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. There can be no assurance that the market price of our shares of common stock will not experience significant fluctuations in the future, including fluctuations that are unrelated to our performance. These fluctuations may result due to macroeconomic and world events, national or local events, general perception of the biotechnology industry or to a lack of liquidity. In addition, other biotechnology companies or our competitors’ programs could have positive or negative results that impact their stock prices and their results, or stock fluctuations could have a positive or negative impact on our stock price regardless whether such impact is direct or not.. Stockholders may not agree with our business, scientific, clinical, commercial or financial strategy, including additional dilutive financings, and may decide to sell their shares or vote against such proposals. Such actions could materially impact our stock price. In addition, portfolio managers of funds or large investors can change or change their view on us and decide to sell our shares. These actions could have a material impact on our stock price. In order to complete a financing, or for other business reasons, we may elect to consolidate our shares of common stock. Investors may not agree with these actions and may sell our shares. We may have little or no ability to impact or alter such decisions.. The stock prices of many companies in the biotechnology industry have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation often has been initiated against a company. For example, on July 1, 2016, the Company and certain of its officers were named as defendants in a purported shareholder class action lawsuit, David Lewis v. Lipocine Inc., et al., filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. This initial action was followed by additional lawsuits also filed in the District of New Jersey. Due to this class action litigation initiated against us or any future class action litigation that may be initiated against us, we may incur substantial costs and our management’s attention may be diverted from our operations, which could significantly harm our business. In addition, this litigation could lead to increased volatility in our share price.. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan, might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our Board of Directors or management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may depress the market price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove members of our Board of Directors or our management. Our corporate governance documents include provisions:. •limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting;. •requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors;. •authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; and. •limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers.. 37. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from engaging in certain business combinations with us. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock.. Additionally, on November 12, 2015, we adopted a stockholder rights plan that would cause substantial dilution to, and substantially increase the costs paid by, a stockholder who attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board. The intent of the stockholder rights plan is to protect our stockholders’ interests by encouraging anyone seeking control of our company to negotiate with our board. However, our stockholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board, even if doing so may be beneficial to our stockholders. This plan may discourage, delay or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt, including offers or attempts that could result in a premium over the market price of our common stock. This plan could reduce the price that stockholders might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future. Furthermore, the anti-takeover provisions of our stockholder rights plan may entrench management and make it more difficult to replace management even if the stockholders consider it beneficial to do so.. We have no current plans to pay dividends on our common stock and investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us.. Although the board of directors of Marathon Bar declared a cash dividend to its stockholders of record in connection with the Merger, we do not anticipate paying any further cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that the board of directors deems relevant. Investors may need to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock.. Our management and directors will be able to exert influence over our affairs.. As of December 31, 2017, our executive officers and directors beneficially owned approximately 10.7% of our common stock. These stockholders, if they act together, may be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might affect the market price of our common stock.. Our common stock is thinly traded, may continue to be thinly traded in the future, and our stockholders may be unable to sell at or near asking prices or at all if they need to sell their shares.. To date, we have a low volume of daily trades in our common stock on NASDAQ. For example, the average daily trading volume in our common stock on NASDAQ during the fourth quarter of 2017 was approximately 197,000 shares per day with volumes continuing to decrease in 2018. Our stockholders may be unable to sell their common stock at or near their asking prices or at all, which may result in substantial losses to our stockholders.. The market for our common stock may be characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. As noted above, our common stock may be sporadically and/or thinly traded. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our stockholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline significantly in the event that a large number of shares of our common stock are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer that could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We currently only have limited securities and industry analysts providing research coverage of our company and may never obtain additional research coverage by securities and industry analysts. If no additional securities or industry analysts commence coverage of our company or if current securities analyst coverage of our company ceases, the trading price for our stock could be negatively impacted. If the analysts downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If analysts cease coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.. 38. Risks Relating to Our Financial Position and Capital Requirements. We will need substantial additional capital in the future. If additional capital is not available, we will have to delay, reduce or cease operations.. We will need to raise additional capital to continue to fund our operations. Our future capital requirements may be substantial and will depend on many factors including:. •current and future clinical trials for our product candidates, including for TLANDO, and the receipt of any additional CRLs related to TLANDO;. •Regulatory actions of the FDA, particularly related to TLANDO;. •the scope, size, rate of progress, results and costs of completing ongoing clinical trials and development plans with our product candidates, including any cardiovascular study required for TLANDO;. •the duration of regulatory uncertainty relating to the TRT class;. •the cost, timing and outcomes of our efforts to obtain marketing approval for our product candidates in the United States;. •payments received under any strategic partnerships or collaborations that we may enter into in the future, if any;. •the cost of filing, prosecuting and enforcing patent claims; and. •the costs associated with commercializing our product candidates if we receive marketing approval, including the cost and timing of developing internal sales and marketing capabilities or entering into strategic collaborations to market and sell our products.. Changing circumstances may cause us to consume capital significantly faster than we currently anticipate. Also, financial markets may not be conducive to raising the capital we need, and we may not be able to raise capital through partnering arrangements. Additional financing may not be available when we need it or may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. In addition, we may seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or strategic considerations, even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. If adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, or at all, we may be unable to continue the development of our product candidates or to commercialize our product, if approved, unless we find a partner that provides additional capital or reduces our capital needs. If we are unable to take these actions we will have to delay, reduce or cease operations.. Our loan agreement contains covenants which may adversely impact our business; the failure to comply with such covenants could cause our outstanding debt to become immediately payable.. On January 5, 2018, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement (the “Loan and Security Agreement”) with Silicon Valley Bank (“SVB”) pursuant to which SVB has agreed to lend us $10.0 million. The principal borrowed under the Loan and Security Agreement bears a fixed interest rate equal to the Prime Rate plus one percent per annum, which interest is payable monthly. The loan matures on December 1, 2021. In addition, if TLANDO is not approved by the FDA on or prior to May 31, 2018, we will be required to maintain $5.0 million of cash collateral at SVB until such time as TLANDO is approved by the FDA. The Loan Agreement includes a number of restrictive covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt, transactions with affiliates, disposing of property, business combinations or acquisitions, paying dividends and making other distributions or payments on our capital stock, subject to limited exceptions. Collectively, these covenants could constrain our ability to grow our business through acquisitions or engage in other transactions. In addition, the Loan Agreement includes covenants requiring, among other things, that we provide financial statements, comply with all laws, pay all taxes and maintain insurance. If we are not able to comply with these covenants, the loans under the Loan Agreement could become immediately due and payable and would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, operating results, business, and prospects and cause the price of our common stock to decline.. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our significant debt service obligations, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to make principal and interest payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, in the amounts projected or at all, or if future borrowings are not available to us under our variable funding notes in amounts sufficient to fund our other liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled principal amortization and interest payments on our debt obligations in the future, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, delay capital expenditures or seek additional equity. If we are unable to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or to affect any other action relating to our indebtedness on satisfactory terms, or at all, our business may be harmed.. 39. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights.. We may seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings collaborations and strategic and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into common stock, current stockholders’ ownership interest in the company will be diluted. In addition, the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that materially adversely affect their rights as a stockholder. Debt financing, if available, would increase our fixed payment obligations and may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration, strategic alliance and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our product candidates, our intellectual property, future revenue streams or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us.. We cannot predict when we will generate product revenues and may never achieve or maintain profitability.. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate revenue from product sales. To date, we have not generated any revenue from product sales of TLANDO or our other drug candidates in the current pipeline, and we do not know when, or if, we will generate any revenue from product sales. We do not expect to generate significant revenue unless or until we obtain marketing approval of, and begin to sell, TLANDO. Our ability to generate revenue depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to:. •obtain U.S. and foreign marketing approval for TLANDO as a TRT;. •commercialize TLANDO by developing a sales force and/or entering into collaborations with partners/third parties, if we obtain marketing approval for TLANDO; and. •achieve market acceptance of TLANDO in the medical community and with third-party payors.. Even if TLANDO is approved for commercial sale, we expect to incur significant costs as we prepare to commercialize TLANDO. Even if we receive FDA approval for TLANDO, TLANDO may not be a commercially successful drug. We may not achieve profitability soon after generating product sales, if ever. If we are unable to generate product revenue, we will not become profitable and may be unable to continue operations without continued funding.. Accordingly, the likelihood of our success must be evaluated in light of many potential challenges and variables associated with an early-stage drug development company, many of which are outside of our control, and past operating or financial results should not be relied on as an indication of future results. If one or more of our product candidates is approved for commercial sale and we retain commercial rights, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with commercializing any such approved product candidate. Therefore, even if we are able to generate revenues from the sale of any approved product, we may never become profitable. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical product development, we are unable to predict the timing or amount of expenses and when we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability, if ever.. We have incurred significant operating losses in most years since our inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future.. We have focused a significant portion of our efforts on developing TLANDO. We have funded our operations to date through proceeds from sales of common stock, preferred stock and convertible debt and from license and milestone revenues and research revenue from license and collaboration agreements with corporate partners. We have incurred losses in most years since our inception. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $126.4 million. Substantially all of our operating losses resulted from costs incurred in connection with our research and development programs and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. These losses, combined with expected future losses, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. We expect our research and development expenses to significantly increase in connection with clinical trials associated with TLANDO, LPCN 1111 and LPCN 1107, if initiated. In addition, if we obtain marketing approval for TLANDO, we will incur significant sales, marketing and commercialization expenses. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant operating losses for the foreseeable future as we advance our lead product candidate, TLANDO, and further clinical development of LPCN 1111, LPCN 1107 and our other programs and continued research efforts. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all.. 40. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, and any failure to meet financial expectations may disappoint securities analysts or investors and result in a decline in the price of our securities.. We have a history of operating losses. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause our share price to decline. Due to fluctuations in our operating results, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results are not indicative of our future performance. It is possible that in some future quarter or quarters, our operating results will be above or below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In this case, the price of our securities could decline.. We cannot predict the impact of new tax legislation on our operating results or the impact on holders of our common stock.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) was signed into law, significantly reforming the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. The TCJA, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, puts into effect the migration from a “worldwide” system of taxation to a territorial system and modifies or repeals many business deductions and credits. We continue to examine the impact the TCJA may have on our business. We will evaluate the effect of the TCJA on our projection of minimal cash taxes or to our net operating losses. The estimated impact of the TCJA is based on our management’s current knowledge and assumptions and recognized impacts could be materially different from current estimates based on our actual results and our further analysis of the new law. Our net deferred tax assets and liabilities will be revalued at the newly enacted U.S. corporate rate, and the impact will be recognized in our tax expense, if any, in the year of enactment. The impact of the TCJA on holders of common shares is uncertain and could be adverse. This Form 10-K does not discuss any such tax legislation or the manner in which it might affect purchasers of common shares. We urge our stockholders, including purchasers of common shares, to consult with their own legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in common shares.. Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. It is difficult and costly to protect our proprietary rights and technology, and we may not be able to ensure their protection.. Our commercial success will depend in large part on obtaining and maintaining patent, trademark and trade secret protection of our product candidates, their respective formulations, methods used to manufacture them and methods of treatment, as well as successfully defending these patents against third party challenges. Our ability to stop unauthorized third parties from making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing our product candidates, once commercialized, is dependent upon the extent to which we have rights under valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets that cover these activities.. The patent positions of pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and related companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in patents in these fields has emerged to date in the United States. There have been recent changes regarding how patent laws are interpreted, and both the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”) and Congress have enacted radical changes to the patent system. We cannot accurately predict future changes in the interpretation of patent laws or changes to patent laws which might be enacted into law. Those changes may materially affect our patents, our ability to obtain patents and/or the patents and applications of our collaborators and licensors. The patent situation in these fields outside the United States is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in the patents we own or which we license or third-party patents.. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep a competitive advantage. For example:. •others may be able to make or use compounds that are the same or similar to the pharmaceutical compounds used in our product candidates but that are not covered by the claims of our patents;. •the APIs in our current product candidates TLANDO, LPCN 1111 and LPCN 1107 are, or may soon become, commercially available in generic drug products, and no patent protection may be available without regard to formulation or method of use;. 41. •we may not be able to detect infringement against our owned or licensed patents, which may be especially difficult for manufacturing processes or formulation patents;. •we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by our issued patents or pending patent applications or those we license;. •we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions;. •others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies;. •it is possible that our pending patent applications or those of our licensor will not result in issued patents;. •it is possible that there are dominating patents to any of our product candidates of which we are not aware;. •it is possible that there are prior public disclosures that could invalidate our patents, or parts of our patents, of which we are not aware;. •it is possible that others may circumvent our owned or licensed patents;. •it is possible that there are unpublished applications or patent applications maintained in secrecy that may later issue with claims covering our products or technology similar to ours;. •the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States;. •the claims of our owned or licensed issued patents or patent applications, if and when issued, may not cover our product candidates;. •our issued patents or those of our licensor may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be narrowed in scope, be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal challenges by third parties;. •our licensor or licensees as the case may be, who have access to our patents may attempt to enforce our owned or licensed patents, which if unsuccessful, may result in narrower scope of protection of our owned or licensed patents or our owned or licensed patents becoming invalid or unenforceable;. •we may not develop additional proprietary technologies for which we can obtain patent protection; or. •the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business.. We also may rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect, and we have limited control over the protection of trade secrets used by our collaborators and suppliers. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If our confidential or proprietary information is divulged to or acquired by third parties, including our competitors, our competitive position in the marketplace will be harmed and our ability to successfully penetrate our target markets could be severely compromised.. If any of our owned or licensed patents are found to be invalid or unenforceable, or if we are otherwise unable to adequately protect our rights, it could have a material adverse impact on our business and our ability to commercialize or license our technology and products. Additionally, we currently do not have patent protection for TLANDO in many countries, including large territories such as India, Russia, and China, and we will be unable to prevent patent infringement in those countries unless we can file patent applications and obtain patents in those countries that cover TLANDO. Likewise, our United States patents covering certain technology used in our product candidates, including TLANDO, are expected to expire on various dates from November 23, 2019 through November 2030. Upon the expiration of these patents, we will lose the right to exclude others from practicing these inventions to the extent that at those times we have no additional issued patents to protect our product candidates, including TLANDO. Additionally, if these are our only patents listed in the FDA Orange Book, should we have a FDA-approved and marketed product at that time, their expiration will mean that we lose certain advantages that come with Orange Book listing of patents. The expiration of these patents could also have a similar material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Moreover, if we are unable to commence or continue any action relating to the defense of our patents, we may be unable to protect our product candidates.. If we do not obtain additional protection under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act and similar foreign legislation by extending the patent terms and obtaining data exclusivity for our product candidates, our business may be materially harmed.. Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of FDA marketing approval of our product candidates, one or more of our U.S. patents may be eligible for limited patent term restoration under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Act. The Hatch-Waxman Act permit a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process. However, we may not be granted an extension because of, for example, failing to apply within applicable deadlines, failing to apply prior to expiration of relevant patents or competitor’s prior product launch or otherwise failing to satisfy applicable requirements. Moreover, the applicable time period or the scope of patent protection afforded could be less than we request. If we are unable to obtain patent term extension or restoration or the term of any such extension is less than we request, our competitors may obtain approval of competing products following our patent expiration, and our ability to generate revenues could be materially adversely affected.. 42. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, and we may be unable to protect our rights to our products and technology.. If we or our collaborators choose to go to court to stop a third party from using the inventions claimed in our owned or licensed patents, that third party may ask a court to rule that the patents are invalid and should not be enforced against that third party. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources, including financial resources, even if we were successful in stopping the infringement of these patents. In addition, there is a risk that a court will decide that these patents are not valid or not enforceable and that we do not have the right to stop others from using the inventions.. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of these patents is not challenged or is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the third party on the ground that such third-party’s activities do not infringe on our owned or licensed patents. In addition, the U.S. Supreme Court has recently changed some standards relating to the granting of patents and assessing the validity of patents. As a consequence, issued patents may be found to contain invalid claims according to the newly revised standards. Some of our owned or licensed patents may be subject to challenge and subsequent invalidation or significant narrowing of claim scope in a reexamination or other proceeding before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (\"PTO\"), or during litigation, under the revised criteria which make it more difficult to obtain or maintain patents.. While our in-licensed patents and applications are not currently used in our product candidates, should we develop other product candidates that are covered by this intellectual property, we will rely on our licensor to file and prosecute patent applications and maintain patents and otherwise protect the intellectual property we license from them. Our licensor has retained the first right, but not the obligation to initiate an infringement proceeding against a third-party infringer of the intellectual property licensed to us, and enforcement of our in-licensed patents or defense of any claims asserting the invalidity or unenforceability of these patents would also be subject to the control or cooperation of our licensor. It is possible that our licensor’s defense activities may be less vigorous than had we conducted the defense ourselves.. We also license our patent portfolio, including U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications that cover our TLANDO and our other product candidates, to third parties for their respective products and product candidates. Under our agreements with our licensees, we have the right, but not the obligation, to enforce our current and future licensed patents against infringers of our licensees. In certain cases, our licensees may have primary enforcement rights and we have the obligation to cooperate. In the event of an enforcement action against infringers of our licensees, our licensees might not have the interest or resources to successfully preserve the patents, the infringers may countersue, and as a result our patents may be found invalid or unenforceable or of a narrower scope of coverage and leave us with no patent protection for TLANDO and our other product candidates.. In addition, on May 15, 2015 we filed a patent application with the PTO, and our application requests that the PTO declare an interference between our patent application and Clarus Therapeutics’ (“Clarus”) U.S. Patent No. 8,828,428 (“the Clarus 428 Patent”). Pursuant to Lipocine's request, on December 4, 2015, the Patent Trial and Appeal Board (“PTAB”) declared an interference between the Clarus 428 Patent and Lipocine's application to determine, as between Clarus and Lipocine, who was the first to invent the subject matter of the claimed invention. Lipocine was declared the senior party in the interference. On September 20, 2017 the PTAB issued a Motions Decision based on each party’s motions in the interference case. The PTAB granted Lipocine’s motion to deny Clarus’ previously accorded priority date for the Clarus 428 Patent. Therefore, Clarus has a new priority date of April 16, 2014 for the Clarus 428 patent. The PTAB also granted Clarus’ motion to deny Lipocine’s accorded priority date. Therefore, Lipocine has an accorded priority date of May 15, 2015 on its application. As a consequence of this decision, the PTAB has redeclared the interference and named Clarus as the senior party and Lipocine as the junior party. All other motions were denied. A conference call with the PTAB was held on October 4, 2017 to discuss the next steps, including priority schedule. As a result of the conference call, the PTAB has issued an order setting priority times.  The order indicated that since Lipocine is the only party that filed a priority statement, only Lipocine shall be permitted to put on a priority case. The priority statement filed by Lipocine included a invention date prior to Clarus’ accorded benefit date. Interference proceedings may fail and could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party; our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms, if any license is offered at all. Even if we are successful in such interference, it may result in substantial costs to us and distraction to our management.. 43. This interference proceeding will consume a portion of our capital resources. Moreover, we may be subject to a third party preissuance submission of prior art to the PTO, or become involved in opposition, derivation, reexamination, inter partes review, post-grant review or interference proceedings challenging our owned or licensed patent rights or the patent rights of others. An adverse determination in any such submission, proceeding or litigation could reduce the scope of, or invalidate, our owned or licensed patent rights, allow third parties to commercialize our technology or products and compete directly with us, without payment to us, or result in our inability to manufacture or commercialize products without infringing third party patent rights. In addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize current or future product candidates and impair our ability to raise needed capital.. If we are required to defend patent infringement actions brought by other third parties, or if we sue to protect our own patent rights or otherwise to protect our proprietary information and to prevent its disclosure, we may be required to pay substantial litigation costs and managerial attention and financial resources may be diverted from business operations even if the outcome is in our favor.. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our commercial success depends upon our ability and the ability of our collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields relating to our product candidates. As the biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and related industries expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that others may assert that our product or product candidates infringe the patent rights of others. Moreover, it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of drugs, products or their formulations or methods of use. Thus, because of the large number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our fields, there may be a risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our product, product candidates, technology or methods. For example, on November 2, 2015, Clarus filed a complaint against us in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware alleging that TLANDO will infringe the Clarus 428 Patent, and the complaint sought damages, declaratory and injunctive relief.  On October 6, 2016, United States District Court of the District of Delaware granted our motion to dismiss the lawsuit filed by Clarus, because at the time there was no actionable infringement on Clarus’ 428 patent.  While the Clarus complaint has been dismissed, the possibility remains that Clarus could submit its claim again if TLANDO is approved by the FDA and enters the marketplace.. In addition, there may be issued patents of third parties of which we are currently unaware, that are infringed or are alleged to be infringed by our product candidates or proprietary technologies. Because some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing, and because publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our or our licensor’s issued patents or our pending applications, or that we were the first to invent the technology. Our competitors may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering our products or technology similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our owned or licensed patent applications or patents, which could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to those owned or licensed by us, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the PTO to determine priority of invention in the United States. If another party has an allowed reason to question the validity of our owned or licensed U.S. patents, the third party can request that the PTO reexamine the patent claims, which may result in a loss of scope of some claims or a loss of the entire patent. In addition to potential infringement claims, interference and reexamination proceedings, we may become a party to patent opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office or post-grant proceedings in the United States where either our patents are challenged, or we are challenging the patents of others. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful, for example if the other party had independently arrived at the same or similar invention prior to our invention, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions. We may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties having patent or other intellectual property rights alleging that our product candidates and/or proprietary technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. These lawsuits are costly and could adversely affect our results of operations and divert the attention of managerial and technical personnel. There is a risk that a court would decide that we or our commercialization partners are infringing the third party’s patents and would order us or our partners to stop the activities covered by the patents. In addition, there is a risk that a court will order us or our partners to pay the other party damages for having violated the other party’s patents.. If a third-party’s patent was found to cover our product candidates, proprietary technologies or their uses, we or our collaborators could be enjoined by a court and required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize any one or more of our product candidates or use our proprietary technologies unless we or they obtained a license to the patent. A license may not be available to us or our collaborators on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, during litigation, the patent holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable relief which could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, technologies or methods pending a trial on the merits, which could be years away.. 44. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and related industries generally. If a third-party claims that we or our collaborators infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to:. •infringement and other intellectual property claims which, regardless of merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s attention from our core business;. •substantial damages for infringement, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes on or violates the third party’s rights, and if the court finds that the infringement was willful, we could be ordered to pay treble damages and the patent owner’s attorneys’ fees;. •a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing the product unless the third party licenses its product rights to us, which it is not required to do;. •if a license is available from a third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, upfront fees and/or grant cross-licenses to intellectual property rights for our products; and. •redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial monetary expenditures and time.. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. Although we own worldwide rights to our product candidates, we do not have patent protection for the product candidates in a significant number of countries, and we will be unable to prevent infringement in those countries.. Our patent portfolio related to our product candidates includes patents in the United States and other foreign countries. The covered technology and the scope of coverage varies from country to country. For those countries where we do not have granted patents, we have no ability to prevent the unauthorized use of our intellectual property, and third parties in those countries may be able to make, use, or sell products identical to, or substantially similar to our product candidates.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. Periodic maintenance fees on our owned or licensed patents are due to be paid to the PTO in several stages over the lifetime of the patents. Future maintenance fees will also need to be paid on other patents which may be issued to us. We have systems in place to remind us to pay these fees, and we employ outside firms to remind us to pay annuity fees due to foreign patent agencies on our pending foreign patent applications. We have even less control over our in-licensed patents and applications, for which our licensor retains responsibility. The PTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. In many cases, an inadvertent lapse can be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules. However, there are situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, our competitors might be able to enter the market and this circumstance would have a material adverse effect on our business.. We also may rely on trade secrets and confidentiality agreements to protect our technology and know-how, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect, and we have limited control over the protection of trade secrets used by our collaborators and suppliers. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. If our confidential or proprietary information is divulged to or acquired by third parties, including our competitors, our competitive position in the marketplace will be harmed and our ability to successfully generate revenues from our product candidates, and if approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, our product candidates could be adversely affected.. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.. As is common in the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and related industries, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management, which would adversely affect our financial condition.. 45" 
