[1] "Item 1A.   Risk Factors. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS. We may be unable to continue as a going concern based on our historical performance, which has included net losses and an accumulated deficit. We may continue to generate losses and be required to reduce or curtail our operations.. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern.  As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Company has limited cash and incurred significant recent losses. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. Management's plans in regards to these matters are also described in Note 2.. We have historically incurred operating losses and may continue to do so in the future. There can be no assurance that our efforts to execute our business plan will be successful. We must develop new customer relationships and substantially increase our revenues. Our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $4,460,352  and our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $16,418,634. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, we have an accumulated deficit of $28,471,696 and $24,011,343, respectively.. We will need additional funds to sustain our business. Financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Additional equity financing may be dilutive to holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations and covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business. In the event that the Company is unable to raise funds, there is substantial doubt about the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern, and the Company may be required to reduce or curtail its operations.. Historically, we have been dependent on a few major customers for a significant portion of our Company's revenue. Our revenue could decline if we are unable to maintain or develop relationships with additional customers and our results of operations could be adversely affected if any one of these customers is unable to meet their financial obligations to us.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our four largest customers accounted for approximately 16%, 10%, 7% and 5%, respectively, of our net sales (approximately 38% in total). During the year ended December 31, 2016, we had four customers who accounted for approximately 33%, 25%, 5% and 4%, respectively, of our net sales (approximately 67% in total). If we are unable to diversify our customer base, our future results will be heavily dependent on these customers. Our dependence on a limited number of customers means that the loss of a major customer or any reduction in orders by a major customer would materially reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. We expect that sales to relatively few customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales for the foreseeable future. However, these customers or our other customers may not use our products at current levels in the future, if at all. We have no firm, long-term volume commitments from any of our major customers and we generally enter into individual purchase orders with our customers, in certain cases under master agreements that govern the terms and conditions of the relationship. We have experienced cancellations of orders and fluctuations in order levels from period-to-period and expect that we will continue to experience such cancellations and fluctuations in the future. Customer purchase orders may be cancelled, and order volume levels can be changed, cancelled or delayed with limited or no penalties. We may not be able to replace cancelled, delayed or reduced purchase orders with new orders. If any one of these customers reduces their demand for our products, it will likely have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Furthermore, a significant portion of our accounts receivable is concentrated with these four major customers, some of whom have limited working capital resources who may not be able to meet their financial obligations to us. The failure of any such customers to pay amounts owed to us in a timely fashion or at all could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The Company is also exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable, and this risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. The Company's outstanding receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. The Company's exposure to credit and collectability risk on its receivables may also be higher in certain international markets and its ability to mitigate such risks may be limited. While the Company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its receivables as well as long-term prepayments, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses.. Our success will depend, to a large degree, on the expertise and experience of the members of our management team, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our success is, to a large degree, dependent upon the expertise and experience of the management team and its ability to attract and retain quality personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to attract and retain such personnel.. 8. Table of Contents. We will need to add qualified additional personnel as we expand our business, and we may not be able to employ such persons, which could affect our ability to expand and have a material adverse effect on our business.. In order to expand our product offerings and customer base, we will need to hire additional qualified personnel. We may not be able to locate such persons, and even if we locate them, we may not have the funds to employ them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Future growth of our business depends in part, on the general availability of funding for emissions control programs, as well as enforcement of existing emissions-related environmental regulations and further tightening of emission standards worldwide, both of which are beyond our control and the lack of which could negatively affect our future growth.. Future growth of our business depends in part on the general availability of funding for emissions control programs, which can be affected by economic as well as political reasons which are beyond our control. For example, in light of the budget crisis in California, funding was not available for a state-funded emissions control project and its start date was pushed back. Funding for these types of emissions control projects drives the demand for our diesel particulate filters. If such funding is not available, it can negatively affect our future growth prospects. In addition to funding, we also expect that our future business growth will be driven, in part, by the enforcement of existing emissions-related environmental regulations and tightening of emissions standards worldwide, which regulations and standards are frequently contested in litigation. For example, the Alliance for California Business filed suit against the California Air Resources Board in an effort to cease the California Air Resources Board’s mandate that a DPF be retrofitted on certain older diesel trucks. If existing regulations and emissions standards do not continue to become stricter, are loosened or are not enforced by governmental authorities due to commercial and business pressure or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and long-term prospects.. If we are unable to manage our expected growth, our business may be materially and adversely affected.. We expect to expand, our operations. The growth of our business could place significant strain on our management and operational and financial resources. To manage our future growth, we could be required to improve existing or implement new operational or financial systems, procedures and controls or expand, train and manage a growing employee base. Our failure to accomplish any of these tasks could materially and adversely affect our business.. We face constant changes in governmental standards by which our products are evaluated, and if we cannot meet any such changes, some of our products could become obsolete, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We believe that, due to the constant focus on the environment and clean air and clean water standards throughout the world, a requirement in the future to adhere to new and more stringent regulations both in the U.S. and abroad is possible as governmental agencies seek to improve standards required for certification of products intended to promote clean air and water. In the event our products fail to meet these ever-changing standards, some or all of our products may become obsolete, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and long-term prospects.. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could negatively affect our business and results of operations.. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part upon developing, maintaining and/or protecting intellectual property rights relevant to our re-crystallized silicon carbide product forms, applications and manufacturing processes. We rely principally on a combination of patent protection, trade secret laws, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements and trusted business relationships to establish, maintain and protect the intellectual property rights relevant to our business. These measures, however, may not be adequate in every given case to permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage, particularly in those countries where the laws do not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. In particular, because silicon carbide is a well-known material (developed over 100 years ago), and there has been extensive research, development and publication related to this material and its wide range of applications, obtaining intellectual property rights to key elements of silicon carbide technology can be challenging. Accordingly, at least some of the technology employed in our manufacture of re-crystallized silicon carbide products is not protected by patents.. Where we consider it appropriate, we seek patent protection in the United States and other countries on technologies used in, or relating to, our re-crystallized silicon carbide product forms, applications and manufacturing processes. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its scope, validity and enforceability. Thus, any patent or patent application which may issue into a patent held by us could be challenged, invalidated or held unenforceable in litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and/or other patent tribunals, or circumvented by others. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of patent claims has emerged to date in the United States and the landscape could become more uncertain in view of future rule changes by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the introduction of patent reform legislation and decisions in patent law cases by United States federal courts. The patent landscape outside the United States is even less predictable. As a result, the validity and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, we may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or product candidates in a timely fashion, if at all, and our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products or technologies, especially given the long history of silicon carbide development.. 9. Table of Contents. Our patent strategy is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Our ability to maintain and solidify our proprietary technology may depend in part upon our success in obtaining patent rights and enforcing those rights once granted or licensed. We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of any patents. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future may be challenged, invalidated, rendered unenforceable or circumvented, which could limit our ability to prevent competitors from marketing similar or related products, or shorten the term of patent protection that we may have for our products, processes and enabling technologies. In addition, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies, duplicate technology developed by us or otherwise possess intellectual property rights that could limit our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business.. We also rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. Trade secrets, however, can be difficult to protect. We may not be able to maintain our technology or know-how as trade secrets, and competitors may develop or acquire equally valuable or more valuable technology or know-how related to the manufacture of comparable silicon carbide products. We also seek to protect our confidential and proprietary information, in part, by requiring all employees, consultants and business partners to execute confidentiality and/or nondisclosure agreements upon the commencement of any employment, consulting arrangement or engagement with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential and proprietary information developed by the employee, consultant or business partner, or made known to the employee, consultant or business partner by us, during the course of the relationship with us, be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. These agreements may be breached and may not provide adequate remedies in the event of breach. To the extent that our employees, consultants or business partners use intellectual property owned by others in their work for and/or with us, disputes could arise as to the rights in related or resulting technologies, know-how or inventions. Moreover, while we also require customers and vendors to execute agreements containing confidentiality and/or nondisclosure provisions, we may not have obtained such agreements from all of our customers and vendors. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors, customers or vendors. Such customers or vendors may also be subject to laws and regulations that require them to disclose information that we would otherwise seek to keep confidential.. Moreover, others may independently develop and obtain patents covering technologies that are similar or superior to the product forms, applications or manufacturing processes that we employ. If that happens, we may need to obtain licenses for these technologies and may not be able to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, if at all, which could limit our ability to manufacture our future products and operate our business. In addition, third parties could practice our intellectual property rights in territories where we do not have intellectual property protection. Such third parties may then try to import products made using our intellectual property rights into the United States or other countries, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our contracts with third parties could negatively affect our intellectual property rights.. To further our product development efforts, we continue to work closely with customers, the Danish government and other third parties to research and develop advancements in silicon carbide product forms, applications, manufacturing processes and related products and technologies. We have entered into agreements with private third parties and have been awarded a research and development contract with the Danish government to independently and jointly research, design and develop new devices and systems that incorporate our silicon carbide technologies. We expect to enter into similar private agreements and be awarded similar government contracts in the future. In some instances, the research and development activities that we conduct under these contracts may produce intellectual property to which we may not have ownership or exclusive rights and will be unable to protect or monetize. Furthermore, there could be disputes between us and a private third party as to the ownership rights to any inventions that we develop in collaboration with such third party. Any such dispute may cause us to incur substantial costs and could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of management from our core business or harm our reputation.. We could become subject to intellectual property litigation that could be costly, limit or cancel our intellectual property rights, divert time and efforts away from business operations, require us to pay damages and/or otherwise have an adverse material impact on our business.. The success of our business is highly dependent on protecting our intellectual property rights. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products and/or enabling technology. Policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights is difficult and expensive, as is enforcing these rights against unauthorized use by others. Identifying unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights is difficult because we may be unable to monitor the processes and/or materials being employed by other parties. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, particularly in foreign countries where enforcement of intellectual property rights may be more difficult than in the United States.. 10. Table of Contents. Our continued commercial success will also depend in part upon not infringing the patents or violating the intellectual property rights of third parties. We are aware of patents and patent applications generally relating to aspects of our technologies filed by, and issued to, third parties. Nevertheless, we cannot determine with certainty whether such patents or patent applications of other parties may materially affect our ability to conduct our business. There may be existing patents of which we are unaware that we may inadvertently infringe, resulting in claims against us or our customers. In the event that the manufacture, use and/or sale of our products or processes is challenged, or if our product forms or processes conflict with the patent rights of others, third parties could bring legal actions against us in the United States, Europe or other countries, claiming damages and seeking to enjoin the manufacturing and/or marketing of our products. Additionally, it is not possible to predict with certainty what patent claims may issue from any relevant third-party pending patent applications. Third parties may be able to obtain patents with claims relating to our product forms, applications and/or manufacturing processes which they could attempt to assert against us.. In either case, litigation may be necessary to enforce, protect or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property rights of others. Any litigation could be unsuccessful, cause us to incur substantial costs, divert resources and the efforts of our personnel away from daily operations, harm our reputation and/or result in the impairment of our intellectual property rights. In some cases, litigation may be threatened or brought by a patent holding company or other adverse patent owner who has no relevant product revenues and against which our patents may provide little or no deterrence. If we are found to infringe any patents, we could be required to (1) pay substantial monetary damages, including lost profits, reasonable royalties and/or treble damages if an infringement is found to be willful and/or (2) totally discontinue or substantially modify any products or processes that are found to be in violation of another party’s intellectual property rights. If our competitors are able to use our technology without payment to us, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed.. We face competition and technological advances by competitors, which could adversely affect the sales of our products.. The growth of our Company depends in part on maintaining and growing the sales of our current products in our markets, but also in developing new products and technologies. There is significant competition among companies that provide solutions for pollutant emissions from diesel engines and water purification solutions. Several companies market products that compete directly with our products. Other companies offer products that potential customers may consider to be acceptable alternatives to our products and services, including products that are verified by the Environmental Protection Agency or other environmental authorities. We face direct competition from companies with greater financial, technological, manufacturing and personnel resources. Newly developed products could be more effective and cost efficient than our current or future products.. Failure to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials or failure to obtain raw materials at affordable prices could negatively affect our ability to supply products to our customers and negatively affect our profit margins.. We use silicon carbide, steel, plastic, platinum and palladium in the manufacture of our products. As other industries develop products utilizing silicon carbide, we may not be able to obtain adequate supplies of silicon carbide required for the manufacture of our existing and planned future water filtration products which would prevent us from supplying products to our customers and materially affect our business. Furthermore, any increased demand for, the raising of tariff rates on, or an increase of non-tariff trade barriers that apply to silicon carbide, steel, plastic, platinum or palladium could increase the price we must pay to obtain it and could adversely affect our profitability, which would have an adverse effect on our financial results.. We may rely on sub-contractors to meet current demand for our products and we may need to obtain additional manufacturing capacity in order to increase production of our existing products or to produce our proposed new products, the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. We may not have sufficient internal manufacturing capacity to meet the current demand for our products, and we may need to rely on subcontractors to enable us to meet this demand. Since we may rely on our subcontractors for a significant amount of our production capacity, the loss of the services of our subcontractors would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our plans for the growth of our business rely upon increasing sales of our existing products and systems and developing and marketing new products. We do not have adequate internal manufacturing facilities to substantially increase production of our products and obtaining additional manufacturing capacity in-house will require substantial capital expenditures. We may not be able to locate such additional facilities, and, if located, we may not have the capital resources to obtain or construct them, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations.. Our results may fluctuate due to certain regulatory, marketing and competitive factors over which we have little or no control.. The factors listed below, some of which we cannot control, may cause our revenue and results of operations to fluctuate significantly:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tActions taken by regulatory bodies relating to the verification, registration or health effects of our products;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe extent to which existing and newly developed products obtain market acceptance;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tThe timing and size of customer purchases;. 11. Table of Contents. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tCustomer concerns about the stability of our business, which could cause them to seek alternatives to our solutions and products; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIncreases in raw material costs.. Any significant fluctuations in our revenue or results of operations could negatively impact investor confidence and shares of our common stock may trade at prices significantly below the price you paid to acquire them. Furthermore, declines in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to conduct future offerings or to recruit and retain key employees, including our managing directors and other key professional employees.. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely impact financial performance.. Our reporting currency is the United States Dollar ($). Because of our activities in Denmark, the European Continent and other countries, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. We may manage the risk to such exposure by entering into foreign currency futures and option contracts; however we can make no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to offset a material adverse effect on our operations in the future.. We may be adversely affected by global and regional economic conditions and legislative, regulatory and political developments.. We sell our products around the world, and we expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of sales from outside the U.S. The uncertain macroeconomic environment in the U.S. and other countries around the globe from which we derive significant sales may adversely affect our results and could have a negative impact on demand for our products. Customers or suppliers may experience cash flow problems and as a result, may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products, and suppliers may significantly and quickly increase their prices or reduce their output. Additionally, if customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, amounts owed to us. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to purchase our products and/or to pay us for our products may adversely affect our sales, earnings and cash flow. Sales and earnings could also be affected by our ability to manage the risks and uncertainties associated with the application of local legal requirements or the enforceability of laws and contractual obligations, trade protection measures, changes in tax laws, regional political instability, war, terrorist activities, severe or prolonged adverse weather conditions and natural disasters as well as health epidemics or pandemics.. Any liability for environmental harm or damages resulting from technical faults or failures of our products could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Customers rely upon our products to meet emissions control standards imposed upon them by the government. Failure of our products to meet such standards could expose us to claims from customers. Our products are also integrated into goods used by consumers, and therefore a malfunction or the inadequate design of our products could result in product liability claims. Any liability for environmental harm or damages resulting from technical faults or failures could be substantial and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, a well-publicized actual or perceived problem could adversely affect the market’s perception of our products, which would materially impact our financial condition and operating results.. We could become liable for damages resulting from our manufacturing activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or cause us to cease operations.. The nature of our manufacturing operations exposes us to potential claims and liability for environmental damage, personal injury, loss of life and damage to, or destruction of, property. Our manufacturing operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations that govern environmental protection and human health and safety. These laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional and more stringent changes in the future. Our manufacturing operations may not comply with future laws and regulations, and we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures to bring our operations within compliance with such regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, manufacturing guidelines, and workplace safety requirements, governmental authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits, and private parties may seek damages from us. Under such circumstances, we could be required to curtail or cease operations, conduct site remediation or other corrective action, or pay substantial damage claims for which may not have sufficient or any insurance coverage for claims.. 12. Table of Contents. A significant portion of our assets and the majority of our officers and directors are located outside of the United States, and therefore it may be difficult for an investor to enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against us or such officers and directors.. A significant portion of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, the majority of our officers and directors are nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States, and all or a substantial portion of such persons’ assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for an investor to affect service of process or enforce within the United States any judgments obtained against us or such officers or directors, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of other jurisdictions would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in other jurisdictions against us, or such officers and directors predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof.. We will continue to incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management may be required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives which ultimately could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. As a public company, we expect to continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls as well as mandating certain corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will continue to devote a substantial amount of time and financial resources to these compliance initiatives.. Effective January 1, 2018, we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as defined in the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012, and as such we may no longer take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies, such as exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. This increased burden will further increase our compliance burden.. As a “smaller reporting company” we are still able to take advantage of certain exceptions available to both emerging growth companies and smaller reporting companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and the exemption from providing a “Compensation Discussion and Analysis” section in our proxy statements; providing only 3 years of business development information; and other “scaled” disclosure requirements that are less comprehensive than issuers that are not smaller reporting companies. If in the future, we are no longer remain a smaller reporting company we will not be able to take advantage of such exemptions as an emerging growth company.. We previously elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards under Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act, which allowed us to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until those standards apply to private companies. We are no longer entitled to this extended transition period, and as a result we may incur additional expenses and our management and other personnel may have to devote additional resources to compliance with such new or revised standards.. If we fail to staff our accounting and finance function adequately, or maintain internal control systems adequate to meet the demands that are placed upon us as a public company, we may be unable to report our financial results accurately or in a timely manner and our business and stock price may suffer. The costs of being a public company, as well as diversion of management’s time and attention, may have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our acquisition of LiqTech Systems included the acquisition of goodwill, which is subject to a periodic impairment analysis, and a significant impairment determination in any future period could have an adverse effect on our results of operations even without a significant loss of revenue or increase in cash expenses attributable to such period.. Our acquisition of LiqTech Systems included approximately $9.4 million of goodwill. We are required to evaluate this goodwill for impairment based on the fair value of LiqTech Systems at least once a year. This estimated fair value could change if LiqTech Systems is unable to achieve operating results at the levels that have been forecasted, the market valuation of LiqTech Systems decreases based on transactions involving similar companies, or there is a permanent, negative change in the market demand for the services offered by LiqTech Systems. These changes could result in an impairment of the existing goodwill balance that could require a material non-cash charge to our results of operations. The Company recorded an impairment charge of $0 and $7,343,208 on goodwill, during the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 respectively, as management estimated fair value of the reporting unit did not exceeded the carrying value during 2016 fourth quarter testing.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, and current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting.. We are required by the SEC to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We are likewise required, on a quarterly basis, to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls and to disclose any changes and material weaknesses in those internal controls. In Item 9A, we disclose that with respect to the standards of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404, the internal controls-standard to which we were subjected to, we reported material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. For additional information on this item, please see Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.. 13. Table of Contents. Although we believe our historical efforts have strengthened our internal control over financial reporting (and we concluded that our financial statements were reliable, notwithstanding the material weakness we reported), we cannot be certain that our revised internal control practices will ensure that we will have or maintain adequate internal control over our financial reporting in future periods. Any failure to have or maintain such internal controls could adversely impact our ability to report our financial results accurately and on a timely basis. If our financial statements are not accurate, investors may not have a complete understanding of our operations.. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK. Future equity financings or convertible debt would dilute your ownership and could adversely affect your common stock ownership rights in comparison with those of other security holders.. Our board of directors has the power to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock without stockholder approval. In general, stockholders do not have preemptive rights to any common stock issued by us in the future. Therefore, stockholders may experience additional dilution of their equity investment if we issue additional shares of common stock in the future, including shares issuable under equity incentive plans, or if we issue securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock.. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage of ownership of our existing stockholders will be reduced, and such newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we issue additional common stock or securities convertible into common stock, such issuance will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of each other stockholder. In addition, such stock issuances might result in a reduction of the book value of our common stock, which could make our stock unattractive to existing stockholders.. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a change in control, or an acquisition of us by a third party, even if the acquisition would be favorable to you, thereby adversely affecting existing stockholders.. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of making more difficult or delaying attempts by others to obtain control of our Company, even when these attempts may be in the best interests of stockholders. For example, our articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to issue one or more series of preferred stock, which could have voting and conversion rights that adversely affect or dilute the voting power of the holders of common stock. These provisions and others that could be adopted in the future could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in our control or management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. These provisions may also limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests.. There is limited trading volume of our common stock, which could make it difficult for you to liquidate an investment in our common stock in a timely manner.. Since December 2, 2013, our common stock has been traded on NYSE MKT under the symbol LIQT. Because there is limited volume of our common stock, investors may not be able to liquidate their investments when they desire to do so.. In addition, if we fail to meet the criteria set forth in SEC and NYSE MKT rules and regulations, various requirements would be imposed by law on broker-dealers who sell our securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such regulations may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which may further affect its liquidity.. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade us or our sector, the price of our common stock could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades us or the industry in which we operate or the stock of any of our competitors, the price of our common stock will probably decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage altogether, we could lose visibility, which could also lead to a decline in the price of our common stock.. 14. Table of Contents. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile.. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, and fluctuates widely in price in response to various factors which are beyond our control. The price of our common stock is not necessarily indicative of our operating performance or long-term business prospects. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Factors such as the following could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially:. • the underlying price of the commodities in the industrial water filtration, marine, oil and gas industries;. • announcements of capital budget changes by a major customer;. • the introduction of new products by our competitors;. • announcements of technology advances by us or our competitors;. • current events affecting the political and economic environment in the United States, Europe or Asia;. • conditions or industry trends, including demand for our products, services and technological advances;. • changes to financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock;. • additions or departures of our key personnel;. • government regulation of our industry;. • seasonal, economic, or financial conditions;. • our quarterly operating and financial results; or. • litigation or public concern about the safety of our products.. The realization of any of these risks and other factors beyond our control could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. In particular, the market price of our common stock may be influenced by changes in governmental regulations regarding diesel particles emissions and marine waste water, because demand for our products and services is closely related to those products. The stock market in general experiences, from time to time, extreme price and volume fluctuations. Periodic and/or continuous market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. Price volatility may be worse if the trading volume of our common stock is low.. Our existing shareholders could experience further dilution if we elect to raise equity capital to meet our liquidity needs or to finance strategic transactions.. As part of our strategy, we may desire to raise capital, issue stock to employees, and or utilize our preferred or common stock to effect strategic business transactions, any of which will likely require that we issue equity (or debt) securities which would result in dilution to our existing stockholders. Although we anticipate attempting to minimize the dilutive impact of any future capital-raising activities or business transactions, we cannot offer any assurance that we will be effectively able to do so.. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that future sales may occur, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. If any significant number of our outstanding shares are sold, such sales could have a depressive effect on the market price of our stock. We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that the sale of shares, or the availability of shares for future sale, will have on the market price of the shares prevailing from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could depress prevailing market prices for the shares. Such sales may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price which we deem appropriate.. The Company is considered a “smaller reporting company” and is exempt from certain disclosure requirements, which could make our common stock less attractive to potential investors.. Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (\"Exchange Act\") defines a “smaller reporting company” as an issuer that is not an investment company, an asset-backed issuer, or a majority-owned subsidiary of a parent that is not a smaller reporting company and that:. <U+25CF>  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tHad a public float of less than $75 million as of the last business day of its most recently completed second fiscal quarter, computed by multiplying the aggregate worldwide number of shares of its voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates by the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average of the bid and asked prices of common equity, in the principal market for the common equity; or. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIn the case of an initial registration statement under the Securities Act or Exchange Act for shares of its common equity, had a public float of less than $75 million as of a date within 30 days of the date of the filing of the registration statement, computed by multiplying the aggregate worldwide number of such shares held by non-affiliates before the registration plus, in the case of a Securities Act registration statement, the number of such shares included in the registration statement by the estimated public offering price of the shares; or. 15. Table of Contents. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIn the case of an issuer whose public float as calculated under paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition was zero, had annual revenues of less than $50 million during the most recently completed fiscal year for which audited financial statements are available.. As a “smaller reporting company” we are not required and may not include a Compensation Discussion and Analysis section in our proxy statements; we provide only 3 years of business development information; provide fewer years of selected financial data; and have other “scaled” disclosure requirements that are less comprehensive than issuers that are not “smaller reporting companies” which could make our stock less attractive to potential investors, which could make it more difficult for you to sell your shares.. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile, which may adversely affect its market price.. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to factors such as:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition or results of operations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe success or failure of our operating strategies and our perceived prospects; realization of any of the risks described in this section; failure to be covered by securities analysts or failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta decline in the stock prices of peer companies; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta discount in the trading multiple of our common stock relative to that of common stock of certain of our peer companies due to perceived risks associated with our smaller size.. As a result, shares of our common stock may trade at prices significantly below the price you paid to acquire them. Furthermore, declines in the price of our common stock may adversely affect our ability to conduct future offerings or to recruit and retain key employees, including our managing directors and other key professional employees.. We have no current plan to pay dividends on our common stock, and investors may lose the entire amount of their investment.. We have no current plans to pay dividends on our common stock. Therefore, investors will not receive any funds absent a sale of their shares. We cannot assure investors of a positive return on their investment when they sell their shares nor can we assure that investors will not lose the entire amount of their investment."                        
