[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business and assets are subject to varying degrees of risk and uncertainty.  An investor should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting us, but the below risks and uncertainties are not the only ones related to our businesses and are not necessarily listed in the order of their significance.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.. Global healthcare policy changes, including U.S. healthcare reform legislation, may have a material adverse effect on us.. In response to perceived increases in healthcare costs, there have been and continue to be proposals by governments, regulators and third-party payers to control these costs. The adoption of some or all of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. These proposals have resulted in efforts to enact U.S. healthcare system reforms that may lead to pricing restrictions, limits on the amounts of reimbursement available for our products and could limit the acceptance and availability of our products.. In the United States, the federal government enacted legislation, including the Affordable Care Act of 2010, to overhaul the nation's healthcare system. Among other things, the Affordable Care Act:. • imposes an annual excise tax of 2.3% on any entity that manufactures or imports medical devices offered for sale in the United States. Due to subsequent legislative amendments, the excise tax has been suspended for the period January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2019, and absent further legislative action, will be reinstated starting January 1, 2020; and. • implements payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain healthcare services through bundled payment models.. The Affordable Care Act also focuses on a number of Medicare provisions aimed at decreasing costs. It is uncertain at this point what unintended consequences these provisions will have on patient access to new technologies. The Medicare provisions include value-based payment programs, increased funding of comparative effectiveness research, reduced hospital payments for avoidable readmissions and hospital-acquired conditions, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies that promote care coordination (such as bundled physician and hospital payments). Additionally, the law includes a reduction in the annual rate of inflation for hospitals that began in 2011 and the establishment of an independent payment advisory board to recommend ways of reducing the rate of growth in Medicare spending beginning in 2014. We cannot predict what healthcare. 19. programs and regulations will be implemented at the global level or the U.S. federal or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation; however, any changes that lower reimbursement for our products or reduce medical procedure volumes could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. In 2015, the Italian Parliament introduced new rules for entities that supply goods and services to the Italian National Healthcare System. This healthcare law impacts the business and financial reporting of medical technology sector companies that sell medical devices in Italy. A key provision of the law is a 'payback' measure, requiring companies selling medical devices in Italy to make payments to the Italian state if medical device expenditures exceed regional maximum ceilings. Companies are required to make payments equal to a percentage of expenditures exceeding maximum regional caps. There is still considerable uncertainty about how the law will operate and what the exact timeline will be for finalization. Our current assessment of the Italian Medical Device Payback legislation involves significant judgment regarding the expected scope and actual implementation terms of the measure as the latter have not been clarified to date by Italian authorities. We account for the estimated cost of the Medical Device Payback as a deduction from revenue.. The success and continuing development of our products depend on maintaining strong relationships with physicians and healthcare professionals.. If we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians, our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products.  Physicians assist us as researchers, marketing consultants, product consultants, inventors and public speakers, and we rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience. If we are unable to maintain these strong relationships, the development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations.. We may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate third-party reimbursement on our products, which could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results.. Our ability to commercialize our products is dependent, in large part, on whether third-party payors, including private healthcare insurers, managed care plans, governmental programs and others agree to cover the costs and services associated with our products and related procedures in the United States and internationally.. Our products are purchased principally by healthcare providers that typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid in the United States) and private insurance plans for the healthcare services provided to their patients.  The ability of customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for their services and the products they provide is critical to the success of medical technology companies. The availability of adequate reimbursement affects the decision as to which procedures are performed, which products are purchased and what prices customers are willing to pay. After we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product if reimbursement approval is not obtained from private and governmental third-party payors. In addition, periodic changes to reimbursement methodologies could have an adverse impact on our business.. Outside the United States, reimbursement systems vary significantly by country.  Many foreign markets have government-managed healthcare systems that govern reimbursement for medical devices and procedures.  Additionally, some foreign reimbursement systems provide for limited payments in a given period and, as a consequence, result in extended payment periods.  If adequate levels of reimbursement from third - party payors outside of the United States are not obtained, international sales of our products may decline.. Patient confidentiality and federal and state privacy and security laws and regulations in the United States and around the world may adversely impact our selling model.. U.S. HIPAA establishes federal rules protecting the privacy and security of personal health information.  The privacy and security rules address the use and disclosure of individual healthcare information and the rights of patients to understand and control how such information is used and disclosed.  HIPAA provides both civil and criminal fines and penalties for covered entities or business associates that fail to comply. If we fail to comply with the applicable regulations, we could suffer civil penalties up to or exceeding $50,000 per violation, with a maximum of $1.5 million for multiple violations of an identical   requirement during a calendar year and criminal penalties with fines up to $250,000 and potential imprisonment.. In addition to HIPAA, virtually every U.S. state has enacted one or more laws to safeguard privacy, and these laws vary significantly from state to state and change frequently.  Because the operation of our business involves the collection and use of substantial amounts of \"protected health information,\" we endeavor to conduct our business as a \"covered entity\" under HIPAA, and consistent with state privacy laws, we obtain HIPAA-compliant patient authorizations where required to support our use and disclosure of patient information. We also sometimes act as a \"business associate\" for a covered entity. Regardless, the Office for Civil Rights of the Department of Health and Human Services or another government enforcement agency may. 20. determine that our business model or operations are not in compliance with HIPAA or other related state laws, which could subject us to penalties, severely limit our ability to market and sell our products under our existing business model and harm our business growth and consolidated financial position.. The EU's GDPR, in force from 25 May 2018, protects the privacy and security of personal health information relating to individuals within the EU.  Like HIPAA, GDPR addresses the use and disclosure of individual healthcare information and the rights of patients to understand and control how such information is used and disclosed.  It will also subject us to a rigorous pro-active compliance regime.  If we fail to comply with GDPR, we could be sued for compensation by individuals who have suffered material or non-material damage and could suffer administrative \"effective, proportionate and dissuasive\" administrative fines up to the higher of $204 million, or 4%, of the total worldwide annual turnover of the group in the previous financial year. We may also be subject to criminal sanctions.. Cyber-attacks or other disruptions to our information technology systems could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, fines or harm to our competitive position.. We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business, and certain of our products include integrated software and information technology. We rely on information technology systems to collect and process customer orders, manage product manufacturing and shipping, and support regulatory compliance, and we routinely process, store, and transmit large amounts of data, including sensitive personal information, protected health information, and business information. Many of our products incorporate software and information technology that allow patients and physicians to be connected and collect data regarding a patient and the therapy he or she is receiving, or that otherwise allow the products or services to operate as intended. We could experience attempted or actual interference with the integrity of, and interruptions in, our technology systems, as well as data breaches. We could also experience attempted or actual interference with the integrity of our products and data. These incidents could materially harm our business and our reputation.. As is the case with other large enterprises, the size and complexity of our products and information technology systems can make them vulnerable to cyber-attacks, breakdown, interruptions, destruction, loss or compromise of data, obsolescence or incompatibility among systems, or other significant disruptions. Unauthorized persons routinely attempt to access our products or systems in order to disrupt, disable or degrade such products or services, or to obtain proprietary or confidential information. Such unauthorized access or interference with our products or services, if successful, could create issues with product functionality, which could pose a risk to patient safety, and a risk of product recall or field activity.. We have programs, processes and technologies in place to attempt to prevent, detect, contain, respond to and mitigate security-related threats and potential incidents. We undertake ongoing improvements to our systems, connected devices and information-sharing products in order to minimize vulnerabilities, in accordance with industry and regulatory standards; however, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access change frequently and can be difficult to detect, and because the integration of two global cross-border companies takes time and entails risks pertaining to the integration of disparate information technology systems.  anticipating, identifying or preventing these intrusions or mitigating them if and when they occur is challenging and makes us more vulnerable to cyber-attacks than other companies not similarly situated.. We also rely on third-party vendors to supply and/or support certain aspects of our information technology systems. Third-party systems may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could result in system disruption or could unexpectedly compromise the information security of our own systems, and we are dependent on these third parties to provide reliable systems and software and to deploy appropriate security programs to protect their systems.. In addition, we continue to grow in part through new business acquisitions. As a result of acquisitions, we may face risks due to implementation, modification, or remediation of controls, procedures, and policies relating to data privacy and cybersecurity at the acquired company. We continue to consolidate and over time integrate the number of systems we operate, and to upgrade and expand our information system capabilities for stable and secure business operations.. If we are unable to maintain secure, reliable information technology systems and prevent disruptions, outages, or data breaches, we may suffer regulatory consequences in addition to business consequences. Our worldwide operations mean that we are subject to laws and regulations, including data protection and cyber-security laws and regulations, in many jurisdictions. For example, if we are in breach of the GDPR's requirement that we ensure a level of security, both in terms of technology and other organizational measures, appropriate to the risk that the confidentiality, integrity or availability of personally identifiable data is compromised, we could be subject to fines of up to $12.0 million or 2% of our annual worldwide group turnover, whichever is higher. Despite programs to comply with such laws and regulations, there is no guarantee that we will avoid enforcement actions by governmental bodies. Enforcement actions may be costly and interrupt regular operations of our business. In addition, there is a trend of civil lawsuits and class actions relating to breaches of consumer data other cyber-. 21. attacks. While we have not been named in any such lawsuits, if a substantial breach or loss of data occurs, we could become a target of civil litigation or government enforcement actions.. Our information technology systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect, and enhance existing systems and to develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving legal and regulatory standards, the increasing need to protect patient and customer information, and the information technology needs associated with our changing products and services. There can be no assurance that our process of consolidating, protecting, upgrading and expanding our systems and capabilities, continuing to build security into the design of our products, and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. Any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, corruption, or destruction of these systems, as well as any data breaches, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our information technology systems, products or sensitive data are compromised, patients or employees could be exposed to financial or medical identity theft or suffer a loss of product functionality, and we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have difficulty preventing, detecting, and controlling fraud, be exposed to the loss or misuse of confidential information, have disputes with customers, physicians, and other health care professionals, suffer regulatory sanctions or penalties under federal laws, state laws, or the laws of other jurisdictions, experience increases in operating expenses or an impairment in our ability to conduct our operations, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a data privacy breach, product failure, information technology outages or disruptions, or suffer other adverse consequences including lawsuits or other legal action and damage to our reputation.. We are subject to extensive and dynamic medical device regulation, which may impede or hinder the approval or sale of our products and in some cases, may ultimately result in an inability to obtain approval of certain products or may result in the recall or seizure of previously approved products.. Our medical device products and operations are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and various other federal, state and foreign government authorities. Government regulation of medical devices is meant to assure their safety and effectiveness and includes regulation of, among other things, design, development and manufacturing; clinical studies; product safety; pre-market clearance and approval; marketing, sales and distribution; reimbursement; and post-market surveillance. The pathway to obtaining clearance from the FDA and comparable agencies in foreign countries for new products is described above in \"Item 1.  Business - Government Regulation and Other Considerations.\" Such processes can take a significant amount of time; require the expenditure of substantial resources; involve rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance; require changes to products; and result in limitations on the indicated uses of products.. In addition, exported devices are subject to the regulatory requirements of each country to which the device is exported. Some countries do not have medical device regulations, but in most foreign countries, medical devices are regulated. Frequently, regulatory approval may first be obtained in a foreign country prior to application in the U.S. due to differing regulatory requirements; however, other countries, such as China, for example, require approval in the country of origin or legal manufacturer as a condition for approval in that country. Most countries outside of the U.S. require that product approvals be renewed or recertified on a regular basis, generally every four to five years. The renewal or recertification process requires that we evaluate any device changes and any new regulations or standards relevant to the device and conduct appropriate testing to document continued compliance. Where renewal or recertification applications are required, they may need to be renewed and/or approved in order to continue selling our products in those countries. There can be no assurance that we will receive the required approvals for new products or modifications to existing products on a timely basis or that any approval will not be subsequently withdrawn or conditioned upon extensive post-market study requirements.. Our global regulatory environment is becoming increasingly stringent, and unpredictable, which could increase the time, cost and complexity of obtaining regulatory approvals for our products, as well as the clinical and regulatory costs of supporting those approvals. Several countries that did not have regulatory requirements for medical devices have established such requirements in recent years and other countries have expanded on existing regulations. Certain regulators are exhibiting less flexibility and are requiring local preclinical and clinical data in addition to global data. While harmonization of global regulations has been pursued, requirements continue to differ significantly among countries. We expect this global regulatory environment will continue to evolve, which could impact our ability to obtain future approvals for our products, or could increase the cost and time to obtain such approvals in the future.. The FDA and other worldwide regulatory agencies actively monitor compliance with local laws and regulations through review and inspection of design and manufacturing practices, recordkeeping, reporting of adverse events, labeling and promotional practices. The FDA can ban certain medical devices; detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices; order repair, replacement or refund of these devices; and require notification of health professionals and others with regard to medical devices that present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the public health. The FDA can take action against a. 22. company that promotes \"off-label\" uses. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict a company from effectively marketing and selling its products, may limit a company's ability to obtain future premarket clearances or approvals, and could result in a substantial modification to the company's business practices and operations. International sales of U.S. manufactured medical devices that are not approved by the FDA for use in the U.S., or that are banned or deviate from lawful performance standards, are subject to FDA export requirements.. Regulations regarding the development, manufacture and sale of medical devices are evolving and subject to future change. We cannot predict what impact, if any, those changes might have on our business. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer could result in fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances or approvals, seizures or recalls of products, physician advisories or other field actions, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecution. We may also initiate field actions as a result of a failure to strictly comply with our internal quality policies. The failure to receive product approval clearance on a timely basis, suspensions of regulatory clearances, seizures or recalls of products, physician advisories or other field actions, or the withdrawal of product approval by the FDA or by comparable agencies in foreign countries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Modifications to our marketed products may require new clearances or approvals, and may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until required clearances or approvals are obtained.. An element of our strategy is to continue to upgrade our products, add new features and expand clearance or approval of our current products to new indications. In the United States, any modification to a PMA-approved device generally requires an additional approval by the FDA. Similarly, any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or efficacy, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, technology, materials, packaging and certain manufacturing processes, may require a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, PMA approval. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make the determination regarding the need for a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval in the first instance; but the FDA may (and often does) review the manufacturer's decision, and, where the FDA does not agree, may retroactively require the manufacturer to submit a 510(k) or PMA, and may require a recall of the affected device until clearance or approval is obtained. We have made modifications to our products in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. No assurance can be given that the FDA will agree with any of our decisions not to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval.. If the FDA requires us to cease marketing and to recall a modified device until we obtains a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, our business, financial condition, operating results and future growth prospects could be materially adversely affected. Any recall or FDA requirement that we seek additional clearances or approvals could result in significant delays, fines, increased costs associated with modification of a product, loss of revenue and potential operating restrictions imposed by the FDA.. Furthermore, the FDA's ongoing review of the 510(k) clearance process may make it more difficult for us to make modifications to our previously cleared products, either by imposing stricter requirements as to when a new 510(k) notification for a modification to a previously cleared product must be submitted, or by applying more onerous review criteria to such submissions.. If our marketed medical devices are defective or otherwise pose safety risks, the FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities could require their recall, or we may initiate a recall of our products voluntarily.. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities may require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. Manufacturers, on their own initiative, may recall a product with material deficiency. We have initiated voluntary product recalls in the past. A future recall announcement in the United States, EEA or elsewhere could harm our reputation with customers and negatively affect our revenue.. A government-mandated recall or voluntary recall by us or one of our sales agencies could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies or issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Any recall could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers' demands. We also may be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future revenue and our ability to generate profits. In the future, we may initiate voluntary withdrawal, removal or repair actions that we determine do not require notification of the FDA as a recall. If the FDA disagrees. 23. with our determinations, it could require us to report those actions as recalls. In addition, the FDA could take enforcement action for failing to report the recalls when they were conducted.. In addition, depending on the corrective action we take to redress a device's deficiencies or defects, the FDA may require, or we may decide, that we need to obtain new approvals or clearances for the device before we market or distribute the corrected device. Seeking such approvals or clearances may delay our ability to replace the recalled devices in a timely manner. Moreover, if we do not adequately address problems associated with our devices, we may face additional regulatory enforcement action, including FDA warning letters, product seizure, injunctions, administrative penalties, or civil or criminal fines.. In the EEA, our European operations must comply with the EU Medical Device Vigilance System, the purpose of which is to improve the protection of health and safety of patients, users and others by reducing the likelihood of reoccurrence of incidents related to the use of a medical device. Under this system, incidents must be reported to the Competent Authorities of the EEA Member States. An incident is defined as any malfunction or deterioration in the characteristics and/or performance of a device, as well as any inadequacy in labeling or instructions that may, directly or indirectly, lead or have led to death or serious health deterioration of a patient. Incidents are evaluated by the EEA Competent Authorities to whom they have been reported, and where appropriate, information is disseminated between them in the form of National Competent Authority Reports (\"NCARs\"). The Medical Device Vigilance System is further intended to facilitate a direct, early and harmonized implementation of Field Safety Corrective Actions (\"FSCAs\"), across the EEA Member States where the device is in use. An FSCA is an action taken by a manufacturer to reduce a risk of death or serious deterioration in the state of health associated with the use of a medical device that is already placed on the market. An FSCA may include the recall, modification, exchange, destruction or retrofitting of the device. FSCAs must be communicated by the manufacturer or its legal representative to its customers and/or to the end users of the device through Field Safety Notices.. If our products cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, or malfunction in certain ways, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions.. Under the FDA MDR regulations, we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which our products have or may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. If we fail to report these events to the FDA within the required timeframes, or at all, the FDA could take enforcement action against us. Any adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection, mandatory recall or other enforcement action. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, or litigation, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating the business, and may harm our reputation and financial results.. Product liability claims could adversely impact our consolidated financial condition and our earnings and impair our reputation.. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. In addition, many of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time. Component failures, manufacturing defects, design flaws or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information with respect to these or other products we manufacture or sell could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient. The occurrence of such an event could result in product liability claims or a recall of, or safety alert relating to, one or more of our products. We have elected to self-insure with respect to a portion of our product liability risks and hold global insurance policies in amounts we believe are adequate to cover future losses. Product liability claims or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers for our products, and losses from product liability claims in the future could exceed our product liability insurance coverage and lead to a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. We currently are involved in litigation that could adversely affect our business and financial results, divert management's attention from our business, and subject us to significant liabilities.. As described under \"Note 12.  Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation\" in our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are involved in various litigation, which may adversely affect our financial condition and may require us to devote significant resources to our defense of these claims.. Such litigation involves a class action complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, federal multi-district litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania and cases in various state courts and jurisdictions outside the U.S. relating to our 3T heater-cooler product.  As of February 27, 2017, we are involved in. 24. approximately 110 claims worldwide, with the majority of the claims in various federal or state courts throughout the United States. The complaints generally seek damages and other relief based on theories of strict liability, negligence, breach of express and implied warranties, failure to warn, design and manufacturing defect, fraudulent and negligent misrepresentation/concealment, unjust enrichment, and violations of various state consumer protection statutes.. Although we are defending these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of any litigation or proceeding. Litigation may have a material adverse effect on us because of potential adverse outcomes, defense costs, the diversion of our management's resources, availability of insurance coverage and other factors.. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to cover future losses.. Our insurance policies (including general and products liability) provide insurance in such amounts and against such risks we have reasonably determined to be prudent in accordance with industry practices or as is required by law or regulation. Although, based on historical loss trends, we believe that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover future losses, we cannot guarantee that this will remain true. Historical trends may not be indicative of future losses, and losses from unanticipated claims could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows.. Our manufacturing operations require us to comply with the FDA's and other governmental authorities' laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and production of medical devices, which is costly and could subject us to enforcement action.. We and certain of our third-party manufacturers are required to comply with the FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practice (\"GMP\") requirements, as embodied in the QSR, which covers the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipping of medical device products in the United States. We and certain of our suppliers also are subject to the regulations of foreign jurisdictions regarding the manufacturing process for products marketed outside of the United States. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic announced (routine) and unannounced (for cause or directed) inspections of manufacturing facilities, during which the FDA may issue Forms FDA-483 listing inspectional observations which, if not addressed to the FDA's satisfaction, can result in further enforcement action. Similar inspections are carried out in the EEA by Notified Bodies and EEA Competent Authorities. Our failure, or the failure of one of our suppliers, to comply with applicable statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, or the failure to timely and adequately respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues could result in:. • untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions or consent decrees;. • customer notifications or repair, replacement, refund, recall, detention or seizure of products;. • operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production;. • refusal to grant or delay in granting 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of new products or modified products;. • withdrawing 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals that have already been granted;. • refusal to grant export approval for our products; or. • civil penalties or criminal prosecution.. Any of these actions could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet customers' demands. We also may be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future revenue and ability to generate profits. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements, which could result in failure to produce products on a timely basis or in the required quantities, if at all.. Quality problems with our processes, goods, and services could harm our reputation for producing high-quality products and erode our competitive advantage, sales, and market share.. Quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure. Our quality certifications are critical to the marketing success of our goods and services. If we fail to meet these standards, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers, and our revenue and results of operations could decline. Aside from specific customer standards, our success depends generally on our ability to manufacture to exact tolerances precision-engineered components, subassemblies, and finished devices from multiple materials. If our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation as a manufacturer of high-quality components will be harmed, our competitive advantage could be damaged, and we could lose customers and market share.. 25. We are subject to substantial post-market government regulation and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations.. Our medical devices remain subject to regulation by numerous government agencies following clearance or approval, including the global device regulatory bodies. To varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing manufacturing, labeling, marketing, distribution, reporting, importing and exporting of our medical devices. In recent years, the FDA in particular has significantly increased its oversight of companies subject to its regulations, including medical device companies, by hiring new investigators and stepping up inspections of manufacturing facilities. The FDA has recently also significantly increased the number of warning letters issued to companies.. Device manufacturers are permitted to promote products solely for the uses and indications set forth in the approved product labeling. A number of enforcement actions have been taken against manufacturers that promote products for \"off-label\" uses, including actions alleging that federal healthcare program reimbursement of products promoted for \"off-label\" uses are false and fraudulent claims to the government. The failure to comply with \"off-label\" promotion restrictions can result in significant administrative obligations and costs, and potential penalties from, and/or agreements with, the federal government.. We use many distributors, agents and independent sales representatives in certain territories and thus rely on their compliance with applicable laws and regulations, such as the FCPA, the U.S. Anti-Kickback Statute (\"Anti-Kickback Statute\"), the U.S. False Claims Act (\"False Claims Act\"), the U.S. Sunshine Act, similar laws in countries located outside the United States and other applicable federal, state or applicable international laws.  If a global regulatory body were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, it could ban the medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of the devices, refuse to grant pending pre-market approval applications or require certificates of foreign governments for exports, and/or require us to notify healthcare professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to public health. The global device regulatory bodies may also impose operating restrictions on a company-wide basis, enjoin and/or restrain certain conduct resulting in violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices, and assess civil or criminal penalties against, or recommend prosecution of, our officers, employees, or our company itself. Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively marketing and selling our products.. We are also subject to various environmental laws and regulations worldwide. Our operations involve the use of substances regulated under environmental laws, primarily those used in manufacturing and sterilization processes. We cannot provide assurance that a potential non-compliance with environmental protection laws and regulations will not have a material impact on our consolidated earnings, financial condition, and/or cash flows.. Finally, any governmental law or regulation imposed in the future may have a material adverse effect on us. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. In addition, global regulatory bodies' regulations and guidance can be revised or reinterpreted in ways that may significantly affect our business and products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be.. Our failure to comply with rules relating to healthcare fraud and abuse, false claims and privacy and security laws may subject us to penalties and adversely impact our reputation and business operations.. Our devices and therapies are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by various governmental agencies worldwide responsible for coverage, reimbursement and regulation of healthcare goods and services. In the United States, for example, federal government healthcare laws apply when a customer submits a claim for an item or service that is reimbursable under a U.S. federal government-funded healthcare program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. The principal U.S. federal laws implicated include:. • the Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation; in addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act;. 26. • federal civil and criminal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal third-party payors that are false or fraudulent. Actions under the False Claims Act can be brought by the Attorney General or as qui-tam actions by private individuals acting in the name of the government.  Such private individuals, commonly known as \"whistleblowers,\" may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties for each separate false claim;. • the federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which prohibits, among other things, offering or transferring remuneration to a federal healthcare beneficiary that a person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary's decision to order or receive items or services reimbursable by the government from a particular provider or supplier;. • federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any federal healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters. Similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation;. • HIPAA, as amended by HITECH, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information. This is the same significant risk further described in the Annual Report Form 10-K, Item 1A, under the heading above \"Risk Factors: Patient Confidentiality and federal and state privacy and security laws and regulations in the United States may adversely impact our selling model\";. • the U.S. Sunshine Act, which requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (\"CMS\") information related to payments or other \"transfers of value\" made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, and requires applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually to the government ownership and investment interests held by the physicians described above and their immediate family members and payments or other \"transfers of value\" to such physician owners. Manufacturers are required to submit reports to CMS by the 90th day of each calendar year.  Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to an aggregate of $150,000 per year (or up to an aggregate of $1 million per year for \"knowing failures\"), for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests that are not timely, accurately, and completely reported in an annual submission;. • the FCPA, which prohibits corporations and individuals from paying, offering to pay or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity;. •  the UK Bribery Act, which prohibits both domestic and international bribery, as well as bribery across both public and private sectors; and bribery provisions contained in the German Criminal Code, which, pursuant to draft legislation being prepared by the German government, may make the corruption and corruptibility of physicians in private practice and other healthcare professionals a criminal offense; and. • analogous state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; state laws that require device companies to comply with the industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state laws that require device manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts.. The risk of being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the statutory exceptions and safe harbors available under such laws, it is possible that some of our business activities, including our relationships with surgeons and other healthcare providers, some of whom recommend, purchase and/or prescribe our devices, group purchasing organizations and our independent sales agents and distributors, could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. We are also exposed to the risk that our employees, independent contractors, principal investigators, consultants, vendors, independent sales agents and distributors may engage in fraudulent or other illegal activity. While we have policies and procedures in place prohibiting such activity, misconduct by these parties could include, among other infractions or violations, intentional, reckless and/or negligent conduct or unauthorized activity that. 27. violates FDA regulations, including those laws that require the reporting of true, complete and accurate information to the FDA, manufacturing standards, federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, laws that require the true, complete and accurate reporting of financial information or data or other commercial or regulatory laws or requirements. It is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct by our employees and other third parties, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations.. There are similar laws and regulations applicable to us outside the United States, all of which are subject to evolving interpretations. Global enforcement of anti-corruption laws, including but not limited to the UK Bribery Act, the Brazil Clean Companies Act, and continued enforcement in the Europe, Middle East and Asia Pacific has increased substantially in recent years, with more frequent voluntary self-disclosures by companies, aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by governmental agencies, and assessment of significant fines and penalties against companies and individuals. Our operations create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors because these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices; however, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents, or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Any alleged or actual violations of these regulations may subject us to government scrutiny, severe criminal or civil sanctions and other liabilities, including exclusion from government contracting or government healthcare programs, and could negatively affect our business, reputation, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, a governmental authority may seek to hold us liable for successor liability violations committed by any companies in which we invest or that we acquire.. If a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we and our officers and employees could also be subject to exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries. If we are excluded from participation based on such an interpretation it could adversely affect our reputation and business operations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business.. While we believe we have a strong culture of compliance and adequate systems of control, and we seek continuously to improve our systems of internal controls and to remedy any weaknesses identified, there can be no assurance that the policies and procedures will be followed at all times or will effectively detect and prevent violations of the applicable laws by one or more of our employees, consultants, agents or partners and, as a result, we may be subject to penalties and material adverse consequences on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Laws and/or collective bargaining agreements relating to employees may impact our flexibility to redefine and/or strategically reposition our activities.. In many of the countries where we operate, employees are covered by various laws and/or collective bargaining agreements that endow them, through their local or national representatives, with the right to be consulted in relation to specific issues, including the downsizing or closing of departments and staff reductions. The laws and/or collective bargaining agreements that are applicable to these agreements could have an impact on our flexibility, as they apply to programs to redefine and/or strategically reposition our activities. Our ability to implement staff downsizing programs or even temporary interruptions of employment relationships is predicated on the approval of government entities and the consent of labor unions. Union-organized work stoppages by employees could have a negative impact on our business.. We are substantially dependent on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to our rights or the rights of others may result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments, negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products, or prohibit us from enforcing its patent and other proprietary rights against others.. We operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation. Physician customers have historically moved quickly to new products and new technologies. As a result, intellectual property rights, particularly patents and trade secrets, play a significant role in product development and differentiation; however, intellectual property litigation is inherently complex and unpredictable and appellate courts can overturn lower court decisions. Furthermore, as our business increasingly relies on technology systems and infrastructure, our intellectual property, other proprietary technology and other sensitive data are potentially vulnerable to loss, damage or misappropriation.. Competing parties in our industry frequently file multiple lawsuits to leverage patent portfolios across product lines, technologies and geographies and to balance risk and exposure between the parties. In some cases, several competitors are parties in the same proceeding, or in a series of related proceedings, or litigate multiple features of a single class of devices. These forces frequently. 28. drive settlement not only of individual cases, but also of a series of pending and potentially related and unrelated cases. In addition, although monetary and injunctive relief is typically sought, remedies and restitution are generally not determined until the conclusion of the proceedings. Accordingly, the outcomes of individual cases are difficult to time, predict or quantify.. Third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that our current and former product offerings infringe patents owned or licensed by them. We have similarly asserted, and may in the future assert, that products sold by our competitors infringe patents owned or licensed by us. Adverse outcomes in one or more of the proceedings against us could limit our ability to sell certain products in certain jurisdictions, or reduce our operating margin on the sale of these products and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. We also rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, and non-disclosure and non-competition agreements to protect our proprietary intellectual property, and we will continue to do so. While we intend to defend against any threats to our intellectual property, these patents, trade secrets, or other agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property. Further, pending patent applications may not result in patents being issued to us. Patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future may be challenged or circumvented by competitors and such patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or insufficiently broad to protect our technology and may limit our competitive advantage. Third parties could obtain patents that may require us to negotiate licenses to conduct our business, and the required licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We also rely on non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with certain employees, consultants, and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. We cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or proprietary knowledge.. In addition, the laws of certain countries in which we market our products are not uniform and may not protect our intellectual property rights equally. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property in particular countries, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Furthermore, our intellectual property, other proprietary technology and other sensitive data are potentially vulnerable to loss, damage or misappropriation from system malfunction, computer viruses, unauthorized access to our data or misappropriation or misuse thereof by those with permitted access, and other events. While we have invested to protect our intellectual property and other data, and continue to work diligently in this area, there can be no assurance that our precautionary measures will prevent breakdowns, breaches, cyber-attacks or other events. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations.. Our research and development efforts rely on investments and investment collaborations, and we cannot guarantee that any previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful.. Our strategy to provide a broad range of therapies to restore patients to fuller, healthier lives requires a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. The rapid pace of technological development in the medical industry and the specialized expertise required in different areas of medicine make it difficult for one company alone to develop a broad portfolio of technological solutions. As a result, we also rely on investments and investment collaborations to provide us access to new technologies both in areas served by our existing or legacy businesses as well as in new areas.. We expect to make future investments where we believe that we can stimulate the development of, or acquire new technologies and products to further our strategic objectives and strengthen our existing businesses. Investments and investment collaborations in and with medical technology companies are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any of our previous or future investments or investment collaborations will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our consolidated earnings, financial condition and/or cash flows.. Our products are the subject of clinical studies conducted by us, our competitors, or other third parties, the results of which may be unfavorable, or perceived as unfavorable, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. As a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance or approval for new products and modifications to or new indications for existing products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical studies with a variety of study designs, patient populations, and trial endpoints. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical studies conducted by us, by our competitors, or by third parties, or the market's or global regulatory bodies' perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product clearances or approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Success in pre-clinical testing and early clinical studies does not always ensure that later clinical studies will be successful, and we cannot be sure that later studies will replicate the results of prior studies. Clinical studies must also be conducted in compliance with Good Clinical Practice (\"GCP\") requirements administered by the FDA and other foreign regulatory authorities, and global regulatory bodies may. 29. undertake enforcement action against us based on a failure to adhere to these requirements. Any delay or termination of our clinical studies will delay the filing of product submissions and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize new products or product modifications. It is also possible that patients enrolled in clinical studies will experience adverse side effects that are not currently part of the product's profile, which could inhibit further marketing and development of such products.. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could have an adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations.. Many healthcare industry companies, including medical device companies, are consolidating to create new companies with greater market power. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price concessions or reductions for medical devices that incorporate components we produce. Increasing pricing pressures as a result of industry consolidation could have an adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. The global medical device industry is highly competitive and LivaNova may be unable to compete effectively.. In the product lines in which we compete, we face a mixture of competitors ranging from large manufacturers with multiple business lines to small manufacturers that offer a limited selection of specialized products. Development by other companies of new or improved products, processes, or technologies, as discussed above, may make our products or proposed products less competitive. In addition, we face competition from providers of alternative medical therapies such as pharmaceutical companies. We face increasing competition for our indication specific patents for certain products. Competitive factors include:. • product quality, reliability and performance;. • product technology;. • breadth of product lines and product services;. • ability to identify new market trends;. • customer support;. • price;. • capacity to recruit engineers, scientists and other qualified employees; and. • reimbursement approval from governmental payors and private healthcare insurance providers.. Shifts in industry market share can occur in connection with product issues, physician advisories, safety alerts, and publications about our products reflecting the importance of product quality, product efficacy, and quality systems in the medical device industry. In the current environment of managed care, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition, and declining reimbursement rates, we are increasingly required to compete on the basis of price. In order to continue to compete effectively, we must continue to create, invest in, or acquire advanced technology, incorporate this technology into our proprietary products, obtain regulatory approvals in a timely manner, and manufacture and successfully market our products. Additionally, we may experience design, manufacturing, marketing or other difficulties that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new products or new versions of our existing products. As a result of such difficulties and delays, our development expenses may increase and, as a consequence, our results of operations could suffer.. Risks related to the reduction or interruption in supply and an inability to develop alternative sources for supply may adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product sales.. We maintain manufacturing operations in six countries located throughout the world and purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing these products from numerous suppliers in various countries. Any problem affecting a supplier (whether due to external or internal causes) could have a negative impact on us.. In a few limited cases, specific components and raw materials are purchased from primary or main suppliers (or in some cases, a single supplier) for reasons related to quality assurance, cost-effectiveness ratio and availability. While we work closely with our suppliers to ensure supply continuity, we cannot guarantee that our efforts will always be successful. Moreover, due to strict standards and regulations governing the manufacture and marketing of our products, we may not be able to quickly locate new supply sources in response to a supply reduction or interruption, with negative effects on our ability to manufacture our products effectively and in a timely fashion.. We manufacture our products at production facilities in Italy, Germany, the United States, Canada, Brazil and Australia, all of which are exposed to the risk of production stoppages caused by exceptional or accidental events (fires, shutdowns of access roads, etc.) or natural calamities (floods, earthquakes, etc.). Even though we have implemented what we believe to be appropriate preventive actions and insurance coverage, the possibility that the occurrence of events of exceptional severity or duration could have an impact on our performance cannot be excluded.. 30. Natural disasters, war, acts of terrorism and other events could adversely affect our future revenue and operating income.. Natural disasters (including pandemics), war, terrorism, labor disruptions and international conflicts, and actions taken by governmental entities or by our customers or suppliers in response to such events, could cause significant economic disruption and political and social instability in the areas in which we operate. These events could result in decreased demand for our products, adversely affect our manufacturing and distribution capabilities, or increase the costs for or cause interruptions in the supply of materials from our suppliers.. We are subject to the risks of international economic and political conditions.. Our international operations are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business overseas and under foreign laws, regulations and customs. These risks include possible nationalization, exit from the European Union, expropriation, importation limitations, violations of U.S. or local laws, including, but not limited to, the U.S. FCPA, pricing restrictions, and other restrictive governmental actions. Following a referendum in June 2016 in which voters in the United Kingdom (UK) approved an exit from the EU for example, the UK government is expected to initiate a process to withdraw from the EU (\"Brexit\") and begin negotiating the terms of the UK's future relationship with the EU. A withdrawal could, among other outcomes, result in the deterioration of economic conditions, volatility in currency exchange rates, and increased regulatory complexities. Any significant changes in the competitive, political, legal, regulatory, reimbursement or economic environment where we conduct international operations may have a material impact on our business and our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.. Deterioration in the global economy could have a significant impact on our business. Customers and vendors may experience financial difficulties or be unable to borrow money to fund their operations, which may adversely impact their ability to purchase our products or to pay for our products on a timely basis, if at all. As with our customers and vendors, these economic conditions make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. In addition, a significant amount of our trade receivables are either with third party intermediaries marketing, selling and distributing our products or with national healthcare systems in many countries, and repayment of these receivables is dependent upon the financial stability of the economies of those countries.. In light of these global economic fluctuations, we continue to monitor the creditworthiness of all of our customers worldwide. Failure to receive payment of all or a significant portion of receivables could adversely affect results of operations and cash flows. Deterioration in the creditworthiness of the Eurozone countries, the withdrawal of one or more member countries from the EU or the failure of the euro as a common European currency could adversely affect our revenue, financial condition or results of operations.. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales worldwide, including in emerging markets outside Europe and the United States, which could expose us to greater risks associated with sales and operations in these regions. Emerging economies have less mature product regulatory systems and can have more volatile financial markets. Our profitability and operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including:. • local product preferences and product requirements;. • longer-term receivables than are typical in the EU or the United States;. • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;. • less intellectual property protection in some countries outside the EU or the United States;. • trade protection measures and import and export licensing requirements;. • workforce instability;. • political and economic instability; and. • The risk further described in \"Risk Factors: Our failure to comply with rules relating to healthcare fraud and abuse, false claims and privacy and security laws may subject us to penalties and adversely impact our reputation and business operations.\". We are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk.. We transact business in numerous countries around the world and expect that a significant portion of our business will continue to take place in international markets.  Consolidated financial statements are prepared in our functional currency, while the financial statements of each of our subsidiaries are prepared in the functional currency of that entity.. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the functional currencies of our foreign currency entities against our  functional currency will impact our results of operations and financial condition. Although we may elect to hedge certain foreign currency exposure, we cannot be certain that the hedging activity will eliminate our currency risk.. 31. In many of the international markets in which we do business, including certain parts of Europe, Asia and Latin America, we sell our products through distributors who may misrepresent our products.. Selling our products through distributors, particularly in public tenders, may expose us to a higher degree of risk. Our agents and distributors are independent contractor third parties retained by us to sell our products in different markets. If they misrepresent our products, do not provide appropriate service and delivery, or commit a violation of local or U.S. law, our reputation could be harmed, and we could be subject to fines, sanctions or both.. We have risks related to access to financial resources.. The credit lines provided by our lenders are governed by clauses, commitments and covenants. The failure to comply with these provisions can constitute a failure to perform a contractual obligation, which authorizes the lender banks to demand the immediate repayment of the facilities, making it difficult to obtain alternative resources.. Changes in our financial position are the result of a number of factors, specifically including the achievement of budgeted objectives and the trends shaping general economic conditions, and the financial markets and the industry within which we operate. We expect to generate the resources needed to repay maturing indebtedness and fund scheduled investments from the cash flow produced by our operations, our available liquidity, the renewal or refinancing of bank borrowings and possibly, access to the capital markets. Even under current market conditions, we expect that our operations will generate adequate financial resources. Nevertheless, given the volatility in current financial markets, the possibility that problems in the banking and monetary markets could hinder the normal handling of financial transactions cannot be excluded.. Certain of our debt instruments will require us to comply with certain affirmative covenants and specified financial covenants and ratios.. Certain restrictions in our debt instruments could affect our ability to operate and may limit our ability to react to market conditions or to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. For example, such restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, make strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances, restructure our organization or finance capital needs. Additionally, our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic, financial, regulatory and industry conditions. If any of these restrictions or covenants is breached, we could be in default under one or more of our debt instruments, which, if not cured or waived, could result in acceleration of the indebtedness under such agreements and cross defaults under its other debt instruments. Any such actions could result in the enforcement of our lenders' security interests and/or force us into bankruptcy or liquidation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. As an English public limited company, certain capital structure decisions will require shareholder approval which may limit our flexibility to manage its capital structure.. We are a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales. English law provides that a board of directors may only allot shares (or rights to subscribe for or convertible into shares) with the prior authorization of shareholders, such authorization being up to the aggregate nominal amount of shares and for a maximum period of five years, each as specified in the articles of association or relevant shareholder resolution. This authorization needs to be renewed by our shareholders prior to or upon its expiration (i.e., at least every five years). Our articles of association authorize the allotment of additional shares for a period of five years from the date of the adoption of our articles up to an aggregate nominal amount of 9,764,463 ordinary shares, representing 20% of the number of shares in our capital as of October 19, 2015, the date of the adoption of the our articles, which authorization will need to be renewed upon expiration but may be sought more frequently for additional five-year terms (or any shorter period) and/or may be sought to allot a larger number of shares than specified in the existing authorization.. English law also generally provides shareholders with pre-emptive rights when new shares are issued for cash; however, it is possible for our articles, or shareholders in general meeting, to exclude or dis-apply preemptive rights. Such an exclusion or dis-application of preemptive rights may be for a maximum period of up to five years from the date of adoption of our articles, if the exclusion is contained in our articles, or from the date of the shareholder resolution, if the exclusion is by shareholder resolution; in either case, this exclusion would need to be renewed by our shareholders prior to or upon its expiration (i.e., at least every five years). Our articles exclude preemptive rights in relation to an allotment of shares for cash pursuant to the authority referred to above for a period of five years following the date of the adoption of the our articles, which exclusion will need to be renewed upon expiration (i.e., at least every five years) to remain effective, but may be sought more frequently for additional five-year terms (or any shorter period) and/or may be sought to apply a larger number of shares than specified in the existing, dis-application authority.. 32. English law also generally prohibits a public company from repurchasing its own shares without the prior approval of shareholders by ordinary resolution, being a resolution passed by a simple majority of votes cast, and other formalities. Such approval may be valid for a maximum period of up to five years.. Our inability to integrate recently acquired businesses or to successfully complete future acquisitions could limit our future growth or otherwise be disruptive to our ongoing business.. From time to time, we acquire and expect to pursue acquisitions in support of our strategic goals. In connection with any such acquisitions, we face significant challenges in managing and integrating any expanded or combined operations, including acquired assets, operations and personnel. There can be no assurance that acquisition opportunities will be available on acceptable terms or at all, or that we will be able to obtain necessary financing or regulatory approvals to complete potential acquisitions. Our success in implementing this strategy will depend to some degree on the ability of management to identify, complete and successfully integrate commercially viable acquisitions. Acquisition transactions may disrupt our ongoing business and distract management from other responsibilities.. The success of any acquisition, investment or alliance may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to properly assess and value the potential business opportunity or to successfully integrate any businesses we may acquire into our existing business. The integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, human resources, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing, legal, compliance and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management's time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects. Failure to manage and coordinate the growth of the combined company successfully could also have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, we cannot be certain that our investments, alliances and acquired businesses will become profitable or remain so. If our investments, alliances or acquisitions are not successful, we may record unexpected impairment charges.. We have and will continue to incur certain transaction and merger-related costs in connection with the Merger between Sorin and Cyberonics.. We have incurred and expect to incur a number of non-recurring direct and indirect costs associated with the Mergers. These costs and expenses include fees paid to financial, legal and accounting advisors, filing fees, printing expenses and other related charges as well as ongoing expenses related to facilities and systems consolidation costs, severance payments and other potential employment-related costs, including payments remaining to be made to certain Sorin and Cyberonics executives. During the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, we incurred $15.5 million and $20.4 million in merger and integration expenses, respectively. In the transitional period, April 25, 2015 to December 31, 2015, we incurred $55.8 million in merger and integration expenses. We expect additional expenses in the future for the integration of the two merged businesses. Integration expenses related to systems integration, organization structure integration, finance, synergy and tax planning, transitioning of accounting methodologies, certain re-branding efforts, and restructuring efforts related to our intent to leverage economies of scale, eliminate overlapping corporate expenses and streamline distributions, logistics and office functions in order to reduce overall costs.  While we assumed a certain level of expenses in connection with the terms of the Transaction Agreement, there are many factors beyond our control, including unanticipated costs that could affect the total amount or the timing of these expenses. Although we expect that the benefits of the Mergers will offset the transaction expenses and implementation costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term or at all.. We may incur goodwill impairments for goodwill recorded at the Mergers.. During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recorded a pre-tax, non-cash loss on impairment of our Cardiac Rhythm Management reporting unit goodwill of $18.3 million, which was included within discontinued operations in the consolidated statement of net loss.  As of December 31, 2017, the carrying value of our goodwill totaled $784.2 million, which represented 31.3% of our total assets.. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. The goodwill impairment test requires us to identify reporting units, perform a qualitative assessment of the likelihood that a reporting unit's carrying value exceeds its estimated fair value, and in certain circumstances estimate each reporting unit's fair value as of the testing date. Our calculation of the fair value of our reporting units is based on estimates of future discounted cash flows, which reflect management's judgments and assumptions regarding the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate, as well as future operating performance and our business outlook, including expected sales, operating costs, capital requirements, growth rates and terminal values for each of our reporting units. If the aggregate fair value of our reporting units exceeds our market capitalization, we evaluate the reasonableness of the implied control premium.. The estimates used to determine the fair value of our reporting units reflect management's best estimates of inputs and assumptions that a market participant would use.  Future declines in any one of our reporting units' operating performance or. 33. our anticipated business outlook may reduce the estimated fair value of a reporting unit and result in an impairment of goodwill. Factors that could have a negative impact on the fair value of our reporting units include, but are not limited to:. • The ability of our sales force to effectively market and promote our products, and the extent to which those products gain market acceptance;. • the existence and timing of any approvals, changes, or non-coverage determinations for reimbursement by third-party payors;. • the rate and size of expenditures incurred on our clinical, manufacturing, sales, marketing and product development efforts;. • our ability to obtain and retain personnel;. • the availability of key components, materials and contract services, which depends on our ability to forecast sales, among other things;. • investigations of our business and business-related activities by regulatory or other governmental authorities;. • variations in timing and quantity of product orders;. • temporary manufacturing interruptions or disruptions;. • the timing and success of new product and new market introductions, as well as delays in obtaining domestic or foreign regulatory approvals for such introductions;. • increased competition, patent expirations or new technologies or treatments;. • product recalls or safety alerts;. • litigation, including product liability, patent, employment, securities class action, stockholder derivative, general commercial and other lawsuits;. • the financial health of our customers, and their ability to purchase our products in the current economic environment; and. • other unusual or non-operating expenses, such as expenses related to mergers or acquisitions, may cause operating result variations;. • increases in the market-participant risk-adjusted WACC;. • declines in anticipated growth rates.. Adverse changes in one or more of these factors could result in a goodwill impairment in future periods.. As our shares have been delisted from the London Stock Exchange, the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers no longer applies to us and we [and our shareholders] will therefore not have the benefit of the protections that the Code affords.. On February 23, 2017, we announced that we had made applications (i) to the UK Financial Conduct Authority (the \"FCA\") for the cancellation of the standard listing of our ordinary shares of £1 per share (the \"Shares\") on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and (ii) to the London Stock Exchange plc (the \"LSE\") to cancel the admission to trading of the Shares on the main market of the LSE (the \"Main Market\") (together, the \"Cancellation\").  In connection with the Cancellation, we also decided to terminate our UK domestic depositary interest (\"DI\") facility. Trading of our shares on the LSE ceased from and after the close of business on April 4, 2017.. The Panel on Takeovers and Mergers determined that the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers (the \"Code\") no longer applies to us indicating among other things that we [and our shareholders] would not have the benefit of the protections the Code affords, including, but not limited to, the requirement that a person who acquires an interest in Shares carrying 30% or more of the voting rights in us must make a cash offer to all other shareholders at the highest price paid in the 12 months before the offer was announced.. Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in the United States, the UK, the EU and various other jurisdictions. We are also subject to ongoing tax audits in various foreign jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We believe that our accruals reflect the probable outcome of known contingencies. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of ongoing audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our consolidated statement of (loss) income or financial condition. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate or results of operations.. 34. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was signed into U.S. law which provided numerous amendments to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act may impact our U.S. income tax expense (benefit) from continuing operations in future periods.. The IRS may not agree with the conclusion that we should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, and we may be required to pay substantial U.S. federal income taxes.. We believe that under current law, we are treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes because we are a UK incorporated entity. Although we are incorporated in the UK, the IRS may assert that we should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal tax purposes pursuant to Section 7874 of the Code. For U.S. federal tax purposes, a corporation is considered a tax resident in the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation, except as provided under Section 7874. Subject to the discussion of Section 7874 below, because we are a UK incorporated entity, we would be classified as a foreign corporation (and, therefore, a non-U.S. tax resident) under these rules. Section 7874 provides an exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes.. For us to be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes under Section 7874, in connection with the Mergers completed on October 19, 2015, either (i) the former stockholders of Cyberonics must own (within the meaning of Section 7874) less than 80% (by both vote and value) of our shares by reason of holding shares of Cyberonics common stock, or (ii) we must have substantial business activities in the UK after the Mergers (taking into account the activities of our expanded affiliated group). For purposes of Section 7874, \"expanded affiliated group\" (\"EAG\") means a foreign corporation and all subsidiaries in which the foreign corporation, directly or indirectly, owns more than 50% of the shares by vote and value. We do not expect to have substantial business activities in the UK within the meaning of these rules.. We believe that because the former stockholders of Cyberonics own (within the meaning of Section 7874) less than 80% (by both vote and value) of our shares by reason of holding shares of Cyberonics common stock, the test set forth above to treat us as a foreign corporation was satisfied in connection with the Mergers completed on October 19, 2015. However, the IRS may disagree with the calculation of the percentage of our shares deemed held by former holders of Cyberonics common stock by reason of being former holders of Cyberonics common stock due to the calculation provisions laid out under Section 7874 and accompanying guidance (the \"Section 7874 Percentage\"). The rules relating to calculating the Section 7874 Percentage are new and subject to uncertainty, and thus it cannot be assured that the IRS will agree that the ownership requirements to treat us as a foreign corporation were met. In addition, there have been legislative proposals to expand the scope of U.S. corporate tax residence, including by potentially causing us to be treated as a U.S. corporation if our management and control and affiliates were determined to be located primarily in the United States. There have also been recent IRS publications expanding the application of Section 7874 and there could be prospective or retroactive changes to Section 7874 or the U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder that could result in us being treated as a U.S. corporation.. The IRS may not agree with the conclusion that Section 7874 does not limit Cyberonics' and its U.S. affiliates' ability to utilize their U.S. tax attributes and does not impose an excise tax on gain recognized by certain individuals.. If the Section 7874 Percentage is calculated to be at least 60% but less than 80%, Section 7874 imposes a minimum level of tax on any \"inversion gain\" of a U.S. corporation (and any U.S. person related to the U.S. corporation) after the acquisition. Inversion gain is defined as (i) the income or gain recognized by reason of the transfer of property to a foreign related person during the 10-year period following the Cyberonics merger, and (ii) any income received or accrued during such period by reason of a license of any property by the U.S. corporation to a foreign related person. The effect of this provision is to deny the use of certain U.S. tax attributes (including net operating losses and certain tax credits) to offset U.S. tax liability, if any, attributable to such inversion gain. In addition, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department have issued guidance that has further limited benefits of certain post-combination transactions for combinations resulting in a Section 7874 Percentage of at least 60% but less than 80%, and have announced the intention to issue future guidance that could potentially limit benefits of interest deductions from intercompany debt or other deductions deemed to inappropriately \"strip\" U.S. source earnings.. Additionally, if the Section 7874 Percentage is calculated to be at least 60% but less than 80%, Section 7874 and rules related thereto would impose an excise tax under Section 4985 of the Code (\"Section 4985 Excise Tax\") on the gain recognized by certain \"disqualified individuals\" (including officers and directors of Cyberonics) on certain Cyberonics stock-based compensation held thereby at a rate equal to 15%. If the Section 4985 Excise Tax is applicable, the compensation committee of the Cyberonics board has determined that it is appropriate to provide such individuals with a payment with respect to the excise tax, so that, on a net after-tax basis, they would be in the same position as if no such excise tax had been applied.. We believe the Section 7874 Percentage following the combination of Cyberonics and Sorin was less than 60%. As a result, we believe that (i) Cyberonics and its U.S. affiliates will be able to utilize their U.S. tax attributes to offset their U.S. tax. 35. liability, if any, resulting from certain subsequent specified taxable transactions, and (ii) \"disqualified individuals\" will not be subject to the Section 4985 Excise Tax. However, the rules relating to calculating the Section 7874 Percentage are new and subject to uncertainty, and thus it cannot be assured that the IRS will agree that the Section 7874 Percentage following the combination of Cyberonics and Sorin was less than 60%.. Our status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes could be affected by a change in law.. We believe that under current law, we are treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes because we are a UK incorporated entity. However, changes to the inversion rules in Section 7874 of the Code or the U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder could adversely affect our status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, and any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application to us and our respective stockholders, shareholders and affiliates. In addition, recent legislative proposals and IRS guidance have aimed to expand the scope of U.S. corporate tax residence, including by reducing the Section 7874 Percentage threshold at or above which we would be treated as a U.S. corporation or by determining our U.S. corporate tax residence based on the location of our management and control. Any such changes to Section 7874 or other such legislation, if passed, could have a significant adverse effect on our financial results.. We may not qualify for benefits under the tax treaty entered into between the UK and the United States.. We believe that we operate in a manner such that we are eligible for benefits under the tax treaty entered into between the UK and the United States; however, our ability to qualify for such benefits will depend upon the requirements contained in such treaty.  Our failure to qualify for benefits under the tax treaty entered into between the UK and the United States could result in adverse tax consequences to us.. The 2016 U.S. Model Income Tax Convention released by the U.S. Treasury Department would reduce potential tax benefits with respect to us if the Section 7874 Percentage is calculated to be at least 60% but less than 80% by imposing full withholding taxes on payments pursuant to certain financing structures, distributions from our U.S. subsidiaries and payments pursuant to certain licensing arrangements. If the proposed treaty is enacted with applicability to us, it would result in material reductions in the benefit of qualifying for a treaty.. We believe that we operate so as to be treated exclusively as a resident of the UK for tax purposes, but the relevant tax authorities may treat us as also being a resident of another jurisdiction for tax purposes.. We are a company incorporated in the UK. Current UK law provides that we will be regarded as being a UK resident for tax purposes from incorporation and shall remain so unless (a) we are concurrently resident in another jurisdiction (applying the tax residence rules of that jurisdiction) that has a double tax treaty with the UK and (b) there is a tiebreaker provision in that tax treaty which allocates exclusive residence to that other jurisdiction.. Based on our management and organizational structure, we believe that we should be regarded as resident exclusively in the UK from our incorporation for tax purposes. However, because this analysis is highly factual and may depend on future changes in our management and organizational structure, there can be no assurance regarding the final determination of our tax residence. Should we be treated as resident in a country or jurisdiction other than the UK, we could be subject to taxation in that country or jurisdiction on its worldwide income and we may be required to comply with a number of material and formal tax obligations, including withholding tax and/or reporting obligations provided under the relevant tax law, which could result in additional costs and expenses for us, as well as our shareholders, lenders and/or bondholders.. Our effective tax rate is uncertain and may vary from expectations.. No assurances can be given as to what our worldwide effective corporate tax rate will be because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax regulations and laws, enactment and enforceability thereof, policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. Our actual effective tax rate may vary from our expectations or from historical trends and that variance may be material. Additionally, tax laws or their implementation and applicable tax authority practices could change in the future.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Act\"). The Act, which is also commonly referred to as \"U.S. tax reform\", significantly changes U.S. corporate income tax laws by, among other things, reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% commencing in 2018. In addition, the Act created a one-time mandatory tax, a toll charge, on previously deferred foreign earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries controlled by a U.S. corporation, or, in our case, a non-U.S. subsidiary controlled by one of our U.S. subsidiaries. We recorded no toll charge for the year ended December 31, 2017 as we had no previously deferred foreign earnings of U.S. controlled foreign subsidiaries as of the measurement dates. As a result of the Act, we recorded a non-cash net charge of $27.5 million during the fourth quarter of 2017, which is included in \"Income tax expense (benefit)' in the consolidated statement of (loss) income. This amount  primarily consists of two components: (i) $12.8 million relating to the impairment of foreign tax credits, and (ii) a net $14.7 million charge resulting from the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities in the U.S. based on the change in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate.. 36. Further regulations and notices and state conformity could be issued as a result of U.S. tax reform covering various issues that may affect our tax position including, but not limited to, an increase in the corporate state tax rate and elimination of the interest deduction. The content of any future legislation, the timing for regulations, notices, and state conformity, and the reporting periods that would be impacted cannot be determined at this time.  Although we believe the net charge of $27.5 million is a reasonable estimate of the impact of the income tax effects of the Act on LivaNova as of December31, 2017, the estimate is provisional. Once we finalize certain tax positions for our 2017 U.S. consolidated tax return, we will be able to conclude whether any further adjustments to our tax positions are required.. Transfers of our shares may be subject to UK stamp duty or UK stamp duty reserve tax (\"SDRT\").. UK stamp duty and/or SDRT are imposed in the UK on certain transfers of or agreements to transfer chargeable securities (which include shares in companies incorporated in the UK) at a rate of 0.5% of the consideration paid for the transfer. Certain issues or transfers of shares to depositories or into clearance services, as discussed below, are charged at a higher rate of 1.5%.. Transfers of shares or agreements to transfer shares held in book entry form through the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (\"DTC\") should not be subject to UK stamp duty or SDRT in the UK A transfer of title in the shares or an agreement to transfer the shares from within the DTC system out of DTC and any subsequent transfers or agreements to transfer that occur entirely outside the DTC system, including our share repurchases, will generally be subject to UK stamp duty or SDRT at a rate of 0.5% of any consideration, which is payable by the transferee of the shares. Any such duty must be paid (and the relevant transfer document stamped by Her Majesty's Revenue & Customs (\"HMRC\")) before the transfer can be registered in our books. If such shares are redeposited into the DTC system, the redeposit will attract UK stamp duty or SDRT at the higher 1.5% rate.. We have put in place arrangements to require that shares held in certificated form cannot be transferred into the DTC system until the transferor of the shares has first delivered the shares to a depository we have specified so that UK stamp duty or SDRT may be collected in connection with the initial delivery to the depository. Any such shares will be evidenced by a receipt issued by the depository. Before the transfer can be registered in our books, the transferor will also be required to put the depository in funds to settle the applicable UK stamp duty or SDRT, which will be charged at a rate of 1.5% of the value of the shares.. In HMRC's most recent guidance published on July 23, 2014, in response to the decisions in certain recent cases, HMRC has confirmed that it will no longer seek to apply the 1.5% UK stamp duty or SDRT charge when new shares of companies incorporated in the UK are first issued to a clearance service (or its nominee) or depositary (or its nominee or agent) anywhere in the world or are transferred to such an entity anywhere in the world as an integral part of an issue of share capital. Accordingly, we do not currently expect that UK stamp duty and/or SDRT will be imposed under current UK tax law and HMRC practice on future issue of our shares; however, it is possible that the UK government may change the relevant law in response to the cases referenced above, and that this may have a material effect on the cost of shares we issue and potentially on the cost of dealing in our shares. If our shares are not eligible for deposit and clearing within the facilities of DTC, then transactions in its securities may be disrupted.. The facilities of DTC are a widely-used mechanism that allows for rapid electronic transfers of securities between the participants in the DTC system, which include many large banks and brokerage firms. Our shares are at present, subject to certain conditions, generally eligible for deposit and clearing within the DTC system. However, DTC generally has discretion to cease to act as a depository and clearing agency for our shares. If DTC determines at any time that our shares are not eligible for continued deposit and clearance within its facilities, then we believe that our shares would not be eligible for continued listing on a U.S. securities exchange and trading in our shares would be disrupted. While we would pursue alternative arrangements to preserve the listing and maintain trading, any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our shares.. 37"
