[1] "ITEM 1A.      RISK FACTORS. Our operating results and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the economic and political conditions in the U.S. and elsewhere.. Changes in economic and political conditions in the U.S., Europe and other countries in which we are located or do business could have a material effect on our company. Changes in such conditions have, in some periods, resulted in fewer miles driven, fewer accident claims, and a reduction of vehicle repairs, all of which could negatively affect our business. The number and types of new vehicles produced and sold by manufacturers affects our business. A decrease in the number of vehicles on the road results in a decrease in repairs.. Our sales are also impacted by changes to the economic health of vehicle owners. The economic health of vehicle owners is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, fuel prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending.  Many of these factors are outside of our control. If any of these conditions worsen, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.. In addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions that are counterparties to our credit facilities and hedge transactions. These unfavorable events affecting our business partners could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. We have a substantial business presence in Europe, including a significant presence in the United Kingdom. In June 2016, voters in the United Kingdom decided by referendum to withdraw from the European Union. The precise timing and impacts of this action on our businesses in the United Kingdom and other parts of Europe are unknown at this time. Since the vote, we have seen fluctuations in exchange rates leading to pricing pressures and unfavorable translation effects on our sterling denominated earnings. As the details of the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union are negotiated and implemented, our European businesses could be adversely affected as a result of further fluctuations in exchange rates, disruptions to access to markets by United Kingdom companies, interruptions of the movement of goods and services between countries, a decrease of economic activity in Europe, and political or social unrest.. We face intense competition from local, national, international, and internet-based vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business.. The vehicle replacement products industry is highly competitive and is served by numerous suppliers of OEM, recycled, aftermarket, refurbished and remanufactured products. Within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national and international providers, and internet-based suppliers and distributors. Providers of vehicle replacement products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of vehicle replacement products, which may further increase competition. Some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries or with consumers, than we do.. In certain regions of the U.S., local vehicle recycling companies have formed cooperative efforts to compete in the wholesale recycled products industry. Similarly, in Europe, some local companies are part of cooperative efforts to compete in the aftermarket parts industry. As a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve.. 11. We believe that a majority of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by OEMs, with the balance being supplied by distributors of alternative aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured collision parts like us. The OEMs are therefore able to exert pricing pressure in the marketplace. We compete with the OEMs primarily on price and to a lesser extent on service and quality. From time to time, the OEMs have implemented programs seeking to increase their market share in the collision repair parts industry. For example, they have reduced prices on specific products to match the lower prices of alternative products and introduced other rebate programs that may disrupt our sales. The growth of these programs or the introduction of new ones could have a material adverse impact on our business.. In addition, vehicles are being equipped with systems that transmit data to the OEMs wirelessly regarding, among other items, accident incidents, maintenance requirements, location of the vehicle, identification of the closest dealership, and other statistics about the vehicle and its driving history. To the extent that this data is not shared with alternative suppliers, the OEMs will have an advantage with respect to such matters as contacting the vehicle driver, recommending repairs and maintenance, and directing the vehicle owner to an affiliated dealership.. We rely upon our customers and insurance companies to promote the usage of alternative parts.. Our success depends, in part, on the acceptance and promotion of alternative collision parts usage by automotive insurance companies. There can be no assurance that current levels of alternative parts usage will be maintained or will increase in the future.. We also rely on business relationships with insurance companies. These insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. The business relationships include in some cases participation in aftermarket quality and service assurance programs that may result in a higher usage of our aftermarket products than would be the case without the programs. Our arrangements with these companies may be terminated by them at any time, including in connection with their own business concerns relating to the offering, availability, standards or operations of the aftermarket quality and service assurance programs. We rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations.. In an Illinois lawsuit involving State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (\"Avery v. State Farm\"), a jury decided in October 1999 that State Farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-OEM replacement products to repair damaged vehicles when use of such products did not restore the vehicle to its \"pre-loss condition.\" The jury found that State Farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-OEM replacement products and the alleged inferiority of those products. The jury assessed damages against State Farm of $456 million, and the judge assessed an additional $730 million of disgorgement and punitive damages for violations of the Illinois Consumer Fraud Act. In April 2001, the Illinois Appellate Court upheld the verdict but reduced the damage award by $130 million because of duplicative damage awards. On August 18, 2005, the Illinois Supreme Court reversed the awards made by the circuit court and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract by State Farm. The U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal of this case. As a result of this case, some insurance companies reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket products. Our financial results could be adversely affected if insurance companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled products from us due to a fear of similar claims.. In addition, to the extent that the collision repair industry continues to consolidate, the buying power of collision repair shop customers may further increase, putting additional pressure on our financial returns.. We may not be able to successfully acquire new businesses or integrate acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer.. We may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms, if we do not obtain required antitrust or other regulatory approvals, or for other reasons. Moreover, we may not be able to identify a sufficient number of acquisition candidates at reasonable prices to maintain our growth objectives. Also, over time, we will likely seek to make acquisitions that are relatively larger. Larger acquisition candidates may attract additional competitive buyers, which could increase our cost or could cause us to lose such acquisitions.. If we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company's or division's personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. In addition:. • the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us;. • customers of the acquired company may decide not to purchase products from us;. • suppliers of the acquired company may decide not to sell products to us;. • we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions;. • we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting;. 12. • we may be held liable for environmental, tax or other risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence;. • we may intentionally assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire, which could result in material adverse effects on our business;. • our existing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention;. • we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated, either in the amount or in the time frame that we expect; and. • we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders.. Claims by OEMs relating to aftermarket products could adversely affect our business.. OEMs and other manufacturers have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. The OEMs have brought such claims in federal court and with the U.S. International Trade Commission.. To the extent OEMs and other manufacturers are seeking and obtaining more design patents than they have in the past and are successful in asserting infringement of these patents and defending their validity, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. We will likely incur significant expenses investigating and defending intellectual property infringement claims. In addition, aftermarket products certifying organizations may revoke the certification of parts that are the subject of the claims. Lack of certification may negatively impact us because many major insurance companies recommend or require the use of aftermarket products only if they have been certified by an independent certifying organization.. In December 2005 and May 2008, Ford Global Technologies, LLC filed complaints with the International Trade Commission against us and others alleging that certain aftermarket products imported into the U.S. infringed on Ford design patents. The parties settled these matters in April 2009 pursuant to a patent license arrangement that is currently scheduled to expire in March 2020. In January 2014, Chrysler Group, LLC filed a complaint against us in the U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of Michigan contending that certain aftermarket parts we sell infringe Chrysler design patents. The parties settled this matter in June 2014 pursuant to a patent license arrangement that expires in June 2019. In the event that these license arrangements, or other similar license arrangements with OEMs, are terminated or we are unable to agree upon renewal terms, we may be subject to costs and uncertainties of litigation as well as restrictions on our ability to sell aftermarket parts that replicate parts covered by design patents.. If the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines or the number of cars being repaired declines, or the mix of the types of vehicles in the overall vehicle population changes, our business could suffer.. Our business depends on vehicle accidents, mechanical failures and routine maintenance for both the demand for repairs using our products and the supply of recycled, remanufactured and refurbished parts. To the extent that a relatively higher percentage of damaged vehicles are declared total losses, there will be less demand for our products to repair such vehicles. In addition, our business is impacted by factors which influence the number and/or severity of accidents and mechanical failures including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the congestion of traffic, drivers distracted by electronic equipment, the use of alcohol or drugs by drivers, the usage rate and effectiveness of accident avoidance systems in new vehicles, the reliability of new OEM parts, and the condition of roadways. For example, an increase in the acceptance of ride-sharing could reduce the number of vehicles on the road. Additionally, an increase in fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, and the need for mechanical repairs and maintenance to decline, as motorists seek alternative transportation options. Mild weather conditions, particularly during winter months, tend to result in a decrease in vehicle accidents. Moreover, a number of states and municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones or other electronic devices while driving, and such restrictions could lead to a decline in accidents.. Systems designed to minimize accident frequency and severity are becoming more prevalent and more technologically sophisticated. To the extent OEMs install or are mandated by law to install accident avoidance systems in their vehicles, the number and severity of accidents could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The average number of new vehicles sold annually has fluctuated from year-to-year.  Periods of decreased sales could result in a reduction in the number of vehicles on the road and consequently fewer vehicles involved in accidents or in need of mechanical repair or maintenance. Substantial further declines in automotive sales in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. In addition, if vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of older vehicles on the road, insurance companies may find it uneconomical to repair such. 13. vehicles or there could be less costly repairs. If vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of newer vehicles on the road, the demand generally for mechanical repairs and maintenance would likely decline due to the newer, longer-lasting parts in the vehicle population and mechanical failures being covered by OEM warranties for the first years of a vehicle's life. Moreover, alternative collision and mechanical parts are less likely to be used on newer vehicles.. Electric vehicles do not have traditional engines, transmissions, and certain related parts. Engines and transmissions represent our largest revenue generating SKUs in North America, and parts for engines and transmissions represent a significant amount of the revenue of our European operations. Thus, an increase in electric vehicles as a percentage of vehicles sold will have a negative impact on our sales of engines, transmissions, and other related parts.. Fluctuations in the prices of metals and other commodities could adversely affect our financial results.. Our recycling operations generate scrap metal and other metals that we sell. After we dismantle a salvage vehicle for wholesale parts and after vehicles have been processed in our self service retail business, the remaining vehicle hulks are sold to scrap processors and other remaining metals are sold to processors and brokers of metals. In addition, we receive \"crush only\" vehicles from other companies, including OEMs, which we dismantle and which generate scrap metal and other metals. The prices of scrap and other metals have historically fluctuated, sometimes significantly, due to market factors. In addition, buyers may stop purchasing metals entirely due to excess supply. To the extent that the prices of metals decrease materially or buyers stop purchasing metals, our revenue from such sales will suffer and a write-down of our inventory value could be required.. The cost of our wholesale recycled and our self service retail inventory purchases will change as a result of fluctuating scrap metal and other metals prices. In a period of falling metal prices, there can be no assurance that our inventory purchasing cost will decrease the same amount or at the same rate as the scrap metal and other metals prices decline, and there may be a delay between the scrap metal and other metals price reductions and any inventory cost reductions. The prices of steel, aluminum, and plastics are components of the cost to manufacture products for our aftermarket business. If the prices of commodities rise and result in higher costs to us for products we sell, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers.. Existing or new laws and regulations may prohibit, restrict or burden the sale of aftermarket, recycled, refurbished or remanufactured products.. Most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair work. These laws include requirements relating to consumer disclosure, vehicle owner's consent regarding the use of aftermarket products in the repair process, and the requirement to have aftermarket products certified by an independent testing organization.  Additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. If additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business.. Certain organizations test the quality and safety of vehicle replacement products. If these organizations decide not to test a particular vehicle product, or in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. Such events could adversely affect our business.. Some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such as airbags. These and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of additional recycled products. The passage of legislation with prohibitions or restrictions that are more severe than current laws could have a material adverse impact on our business.  Additionally, Congress could enact federal legislation restricting the use of aftermarket or recycled automotive products used in the course of vehicle repairs.. The Federal Trade Commission has issued guides which regulate the use of certain terms such as \"rebuilt\" or \"remanufactured\" in connection with the sale of automotive parts. Restrictions on the products we are able to sell and on the marketing of such products could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations.. In 1992, Congress enacted the Anti-Car Theft Act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. The purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. In January 2009, the U.S. Department of Justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. The portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any \"covered major part.\" The Department of Justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. However, if this system is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on vehicle recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. It would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may discourage the use by such shops of recycled products. There is no pending initiative to implement the parts registration from a law enforcement point of view. However, there is a risk that a heightened legislative concern over safety of parts might precipitate an effort to push for the implementation of such rules.. 14. An adverse change in our relationships with our suppliers or a disruption to our supply of inventory could increase our expenses and impede our ability to serve our customers.. Our North American business is dependent on a relatively small number of suppliers of aftermarket products, a large portion of which are sourced from Taiwan. Our European business also acquires product from Asian sources. We incur substantial freight costs to import parts from our suppliers, many of which are located in Asia. If the cost of freight rose, we might not be able to pass the cost increases on to our customers. Furthermore, although alternative suppliers exist for substantially all aftermarket products distributed by us, the loss of any one supplier could have a material adverse effect on us until alternative suppliers are located and have commenced providing products. In addition, we are subject to disruptions from work stoppages and other labor disputes at port facilities through which we import our inventory. We also have the risk that our suppliers could attempt to circumvent us and sell their product directly to our customers.. Moreover, our operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, natural disasters, transportation costs and delays, political instability, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding future relations between China, Japan and Taiwan. The current U.S. administration has discussed the implementation of a tariff on imports into the U.S., the imposition of which would likely have a negative impact on our business due to the amount of inventory we import.. Because a substantial volume of our sales involves products manufactured from sheet metal, we can be adversely impacted if sheet metal becomes unavailable or is only available at higher prices, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. Additionally, as OEMs convert to raw materials other than steel, it may be more difficult or expensive to source aftermarket parts made with such materials and it may be more difficult for repair shops to work with such materials in the repair process.. Most of our salvage and a portion of our self service inventory is obtained from vehicles offered at salvage auctions operated by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the U.S. We do not typically have contracts with the auction companies. According to industry analysts, a small number of companies control a large percentage of the salvage auction market in the U.S. If an auction company prohibited us from participating in its auctions, began competing with us, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. Moreover, we face competition in the purchase of vehicles from direct competitors, rebuilders, exporters and other bidders. To the extent that the number of bidders increases, it may have the effect of increasing our cost of goods sold for wholesale recycled products. Some states regulate bidders to help ensure that salvage vehicles are purchased for legal purposes by qualified buyers. Auction companies have been actively seeking to reduce, circumvent or eliminate these regulations, which would further increase the number of bidders.. In addition, there is a limited supply of salvage vehicles in the U.S. As we grow and our demand for salvage vehicles increases, the costs of these incremental vehicles could be higher. In some states, when a vehicle is deemed a total loss, a salvage title is issued. Whether states issue salvage titles is important to the supply of inventory for the vehicle recycling industry because an increase in vehicles that qualify as salvage vehicles provides greater availability and typically lowers the price of such vehicles. Currently, these titling issues are a matter of state law. In 1992, the U.S. Congress commissioned an advisory committee to study problems relating to vehicle titling, registration, and salvage. Since then, legislation has been introduced seeking to establish national uniform requirements in this area, including a uniform definition of a salvage vehicle. The vehicle recycling industry will generally favor a uniform definition, since it will avoid inconsistencies across state lines, and will generally favor a definition that expands the number of damaged vehicles that qualify as salvage. However, certain interest groups, including repair shops and some insurance associations, may oppose this type of legislation. National legislation has not yet been enacted in this area, and there can be no assurance that such legislation will be enacted in the future.. We also acquire inventory directly from insurance companies, OEMs, and others. To the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers.. In Europe, we acquire product from a wide variety of suppliers. As vehicle technology changes, some parts will become more complex and the design or technology of those parts may be covered by patents or other rights that make it difficult for aftermarket suppliers to produce for sale to companies such as ours. The complexity of the parts may include software or other technical aspects that make it difficult to identify what is wrong with the vehicle. More complex parts may be difficult to repair and may require expensive or difficult to obtain software updates, limiting our ability to compete with the OEMs.. Our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate.. Our revenue, cost of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control.. 15. Future factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, those listed in the Special Note on Forward-Looking Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. These fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results to fall below our published financial guidance and the expectations of public markets, which could cause our stock price or the value of our debt instruments to decline.. If we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives.. Our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. If we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business.. We operate in foreign jurisdictions, which exposes us to foreign exchange and other risks.. We have operations in North America, Europe and Taiwan, and we may expand our operations in the countries in which we do business and into other countries. Our foreign operations expose us to additional risks associated with international business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition, including import and export requirements and compliance with anti-corruption laws, such as the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We also incur costs in currencies other than our functional currencies in some of the countries in which we operate. We are thus subject to foreign exchange exposure to the extent that we operate in different currencies, as well as exposure to foreign tax and other foreign and domestic laws. In addition, certain countries in which we operate have a higher level of political instability and criminal activity relative to the U.S. that could affect our operations and the ability to maintain our supply of products.. If we determine that our goodwill or other intangible assets have become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income.. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. In the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of acquisitions. Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, increases in our cost of capital, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including modifications that restrict the activities of the acquired business. As of December 31, 2017, our total goodwill subject to future impairment testing was $3.5 billion. For further discussion of our annual impairment test, see \"Goodwill Impairment\" in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of Item 7 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Except for indefinite-lived intangibles, we amortize other intangible assets over the assigned useful lives, each of which is based upon the expected period to be benefited. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We review finite-lived intangible assets for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In the event conditions change that affect our ability to realize the underlying cash flows associated with our intangible assets, we may record an impairment charge. As of December 31, 2017, the value of our other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, was $744 million.. Our business may be adversely affected by union activities and labor and employment laws.. Certain of our employees are represented by labor unions and other employee representative bodies and work under collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. From time to time, there have been efforts to organize additional portions of our workforce and those efforts can be expected to continue. In addition, legislators and government agencies could adopt new regulations or interpret existing regulations that could make it significantly easier for unionization efforts to be successful. Also, we may in the future be subject to strikes or work stoppages, union and works council campaigns, and other labor disruptions and disputes. Additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining or similar agreements, and work stoppages could materially increase our costs and reduce revenue and could limit our flexibility in terms of work schedules, reductions in force and other operational matters.. We also are subject to laws and regulations that govern such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions. Some of these laws are technical in nature and could be subject to interpretation by government agencies and courts different than our interpretations. Efforts to comply with existing laws, changes to such laws and newly-enacted laws may increase our labor costs and limit our flexibility. If we were found not to be in compliance with such laws, we could be subject to fines, penalties and liabilities to our employees or government agencies. In addition, efforts to better protect local markets from foreign workers and decisions of countries to withdraw from treaties and joint economic areas may lead to increased. 16. restrictions on the free movement of people and labor and may limit our ability to place key personnel where it could best serve our needs.. We rely on information technology and communication systems in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business.. In the ordinary course of business, we rely upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are leased from third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage and support a variety of business processes and activities.  The secure operation of these information technology networks and the processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our business operations and strategy.  Despite security measures and business continuity plans, our information technology networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by cyber criminals, breaches due to employee error or malfeasance, disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, terminations of business relationships by third party service providers, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, terrorist acts, natural disasters or other catastrophic events.  The occurrence of any of these events could compromise our networks, and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen.  Any such access, disclosure or loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disruption to our operations and damage to our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business.  In addition, as security threats continue to evolve, we may need to invest additional resources to protect the security of our systems.. In the event that we decide to switch providers or to implement upgrades or replacements to our own systems, we may be unsuccessful in the development of our own systems or we may underestimate the costs and expenses of switching providers or developing and implementing our own systems. Also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipated.. The costs of complying with the requirements of laws pertaining to the privacy and security of personal information and the potential liability associated with the failure to comply with such laws could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We collect personally identifiable information (\"PII\") and other data as part of our business processes and operations.  The legislative and regulatory framework relating to privacy and data protection is rapidly evolving worldwide and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. This data is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations. Many foreign countries and governmental bodies, including the European Union, Canada and other jurisdictions where we conduct business, have laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of PII and other data obtained from their residents or by businesses operating within their jurisdictions that are more restrictive than those in the U.S. Additionally, the European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") that will impose more stringent data protection requirements for processors and controllers of personal data, including expanded disclosures about how PII is to be used, limitations on retention of PII, mandatory data breach notification requirements, and higher standards for data controllers to demonstrate that they have obtained valid consent for certain data processing activities.  The GDPR will become effective in May 2018, and there can be no assurance that we will timely have all processes implemented for full compliance with the regulation. The GDPR provides severe penalties for noncompliance.. Any inability, or perceived inability, to adequately address privacy and data protection issues, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, industry standards, contractual obligations or other legal obligations (including at newly-acquired companies) could result in additional cost and liability to us, result in governmental investigations and enforcement actions, give rise to civil litigation, damage to our reputation (including the loss of trust by our customers and employees), inhibit sales, and otherwise adversely affect our business. We also may be subject to these adverse effects if other parties with whom we do business, including lenders, suppliers, consultants and advisors, violate applicable laws or contractual obligations or suffer a security breach.. Business interruptions in our distribution centers or other facilities may affect our operations, the function of our computer systems, and/or the availability and distribution of merchandise, which may affect our business.. Weather, terrorist activities, war or other disasters, or the threat of any of them, may result in the closure of our distribution centers or other facilities or may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory through our system on a timely basis.  This may affect our ability to serve our customers, resulting in lost sales or a potential loss of customer loyalty.  Some of our merchandise is imported from other countries and these goods could become difficult or impossible to bring into the U.S. or into the other countries in which we operate, and we may not be able to obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar prices.  Such a disruption in revenue could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters.. We are subject to various environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials;. 17. and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. We are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. If we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators or lose our operating permits. We could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. We have an environmental management process designed to facilitate and support our compliance with these requirements. We cannot assure you, however, that we will at all times be in complete compliance with such requirements.. We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures relating to environmental matters. Although we presently do not expect to incur any capital or other expenditures relating to environmental controls or other environmental matters in amounts that would be material to us, we may be required to make such expenditures in the future.. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors' past or present facilities and at independent waste disposal sites. These laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances.  Many of our facilities are located on or near properties with a history of industrial use that may have involved hazardous materials. As a result, some of our properties may be contaminated. Some environmental laws hold current or previous owners or operators of real property liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination. These environmental laws also impose liability on any person who disposes of, treats, or arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by such person, and at times can impose liability on companies deemed under law to be a successor to such person. Third parties may also make claims against owners or operators of properties, or successors to such owners or operators, for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances.. Contamination resulting from vehicle recycling processes can include soil and ground water contamination from the release, storage, transportation, or disposal of gasoline, motor oil, antifreeze, transmission fluid, chlorofluorocarbons (\"CFCs\") from air conditioners, other hazardous materials, or metals such as aluminum, cadmium, chromium, lead, and mercury. Contamination from the refurbishment of chrome plated bumpers can occur from the release of the plating material. Contamination can migrate on-site or off-site which can increase the risk, and the amount, of any potential liability.. When we identify a potential material environmental issue during our acquisition due diligence process, we analyze the risks, and, when appropriate, perform further environmental assessment to verify and quantify the extent of the potential contamination. Furthermore, where appropriate, we have established financial reserves for certain environmental matters. In the event we discover new information or if laws change, we may incur significant liabilities, which may exceed our reserves.. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. Our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition.. We could be subject to product liability claims and involved in product recalls.. If customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims by such customers. The successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  In addition, we may become involved in the recall of a product that is determined to be defective. More generally, a recall involving alternative parts, even if we did not sell the recalled products, could adversely affect the perceived quality of alternative parts, leading to decreased usage of alternative parts. The expenses of a recall and the damage to our reputation, or the reputation of alternative parts generally, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.. We have agreed to defend and indemnify in certain circumstances insurance companies and customers against claims and damages relating to product liability and product recalls. The existence of claims or damages for which we must defend and indemnify these parties could also negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits.. Our operating subsidiaries in our salvage, self-service, and refurbishing operations must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. When we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. Governmental agencies may resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling or refurbishing facility in their communities. There can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold.. 18. New regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and otherwise adversely impact our business.. In August 2012, as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC adopted final rules regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. These new requirements impose significant burdens on U.S. public companies. Compliance with the rules requires substantial due diligence in an effort to determine whether products contain the conflict minerals.  The results of such due diligence efforts must be disclosed on an annual basis in a filing with the SEC.. Our supply chain is complex and we may incur significant costs to determine the source of any such minerals used in our products. We may also incur costs with respect to potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of our diligence activities. Further, the implementation of these rules and their effect on customer, supplier and/or consumer behavior could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering products free of conflict minerals in some circumstances, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary products from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. We may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict-free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we implement. Accordingly, these rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition.. If we experience problems with our fleet of trucks and other vehicles, our business could be harmed.. We use a fleet of trucks and other vehicles to deliver the majority of the products we sell. We are subject to the risks associated with providing delivery services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, governmental regulation, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, and insurance premium increases. In addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may lose the right to operate at key locations.. We lease most of the properties at which we conduct our businesses. At the end of a lease term, we must negotiate a renewal, exercise a purchase option (to the extent we have that right), or find a new location. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate renewals on terms acceptable to us or that we will find a suitable alternative location, especially with respect to our salvage operations (which have characteristics that are often not attractive to landlords or local governments). In such cases, we may lose the right to operate at key locations.. Our effective tax rate could materially increase as a consequence of various factors, including interpretations and administrative guidance in regard to the Tax Act (defined below), U.S. and/or international tax legislation, mix of earnings by jurisdiction and U.S. and foreign jurisdictional audits.. We are a U.S. based multinational company subject to income taxes in the U.S. and a number of foreign jurisdictions. Therefore, we are subject to changes in tax laws in each of these jurisdictions and such changes could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate and cash flows.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). Among other things, the Tax Act reduces the U.S. statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. Additionally, beginning in 2018, the Tax Act imposes a regime of taxation on foreign subsidiary earnings (Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income, \"GILTI\") and on certain related party payments (Base Erosion Anti-abuse Tax, \"BEAT\"). Other important changes potentially material to the our operations include the full expensing of certain assets placed into service after September 27, 2017, the repeal of the domestic manufacturing deduction, and additional limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation. Finally, as part of the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system, the Tax Act imposes a one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of historical earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of December 31, 2017. Other than the transition tax and revaluation of deferred tax balances (which are applicable to us for 2017), the provisions will generally be applicable in 2018 and beyond. In accordance with the guidance provided in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (\"SAB\") No. 118, in the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded provisional reasonable estimates of the impact of the Tax Act, including $51 million for the transition tax and a deferred tax benefit of $73 million related to the revaluation of deferred tax balances based on the new rate. We are continuing to analyze the Tax Act and plan to finalize the estimate within the measurement period outlined in SAB No.118. The final adjustments may differ from the provisional reasonable estimates (and such difference may be material) if provisions of the Tax Act, and their interaction with other provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, are interpreted differently than interpretations made by us in determining the estimates, whether through issuance of administrative guidance, or through further review of the Tax Act. Depending upon future interpretations and administrative guidance in respect of the Tax Act's base broadening provisions, the Tax Act could have a material adverse effect on the Company's effective tax rate and cash flows.. 19. Certain non-U.S. jurisdictions are considering tax legislation based upon recommendations made by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development in connection with its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting study. The outcome of these legislative developments could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate and cash flows.. The tax rates applicable in the jurisdictions within which we operate vary widely. Therefore, our effective tax rate may be adversely affected by changes in the mix of our earnings by jurisdiction.. We are also subject to ongoing audits of our income tax returns in various jurisdictions both in the U.S. and internationally. While we believe that our tax positions will be sustained, the outcomes of such audits could result in the assessment of additional taxes, which could adversely impact our cash flows and financial results.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock and Financial Structure. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could expose us to securities class action litigation.. The stock market and the price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations based upon general economic and market conditions.  The market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet analysts' expectations.  Failure to meet such expectations, even slightly, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, stock market volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies.  Downturns in the stock market may cause the price of our common stock to decline.  Additionally, the market price for our common stock has been in the past, and in the future may be, adversely affected by allegations made or reports issued by short sellers, analysts, activists or others regarding our business model, our management or our financial accounting.. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies.  If similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business.. Delaware law, our charter documents and our loan documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect the price of our stock.. The anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our loan documents and Delaware law could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. Our credit agreement provides that a change of control is an event of default. Our incorporation under Delaware law and these provisions could also impede an acquisition, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock.. Future sales of our common stock or other securities may depress our stock price.. We and our stockholders may sell shares of common stock or other equity, debt or instruments which constitute an element of our debt and equity (collectively, \"securities\") in the future. We may also issue shares of common stock under our equity incentive plan or in connection with future acquisitions. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of securities or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock or other securities will have on the price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), the issuance of additional debt securities, or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, may cause the price of our common stock to fall.. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to obtain financing in the future and to react to changes in our business.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $2.1 billion aggregate principal amount of secured debt outstanding and approximately $1.4 billion of availability under our credit agreement ($1.5 billion of availability reduced by $71 million of amounts outstanding under letters of credit). In addition, we had approximately $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured debt outstanding comprising $600 million aggregate principal amount of 4.75% senior notes due May 15, 2023 (the \"U.S. Notes (2023)\") and \200500 million ($600 million) aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior notes due April 1, 2024 (the \"Euro Notes (2024),\" and together with the U.S. Notes (2023), the \"senior notes\"). Borrowings under the credit agreement mature in January 2023.. Our significant amount of debt and our debt service obligations could limit our ability to satisfy our obligations, limit our ability to operate our business and impair our competitive position.. For example, our debt and our debt service obligations could:. 20. • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and general industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry;. • place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt;. • limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; and. • increase our cost of borrowing.. In addition, if we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage and the ability to service such debt would increase.. Our senior notes do not impose any limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or protect against certain other types of transactions.. Although we are subject to our credit agreement for so long as it remains in effect, the indentures governing the senior notes do not restrict the future incurrence of unsecured indebtedness, guarantees or other obligations. The indentures contain certain limitations on our ability to incur liens on assets and engage in sale and leaseback transactions. However, these limitations are subject to important exceptions. In addition, the indentures do not contain many other restrictions, including certain restrictions contained in our credit agreement, including, without limitation, investments or prepaying subordinated indebtedness or engaging in transactions with our affiliates.. Our credit agreement will permit, subject to specified conditions and limitations, the incurrence of a significant amount of additional indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, we would have been able to incur an additional $1.4 billion of indebtedness under our credit agreement ($1.5 billion of availability reduced by $71 million of amounts outstanding under letters of credit). If we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage and the ability to service such debt would increase. If we close the acquisition of Stahlgruber, we will incur approximately $1.5 billion of additional debt to partially fund the purchase price; this amount is subject to change, depending on factors such as Stahlgruber's debt at closing and the acquisition date exchange rate.. Our credit agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities.. Our credit agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability, among other things, to:. • incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness (including guarantees thereof);. • pay dividends or certain other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or prepay subordinated indebtedness;. • incur liens on assets;. • make certain investments or other restricted payments;. • engage in transactions with affiliates;. • sell certain assets or merge or consolidate with or into other companies;. • guarantee indebtedness; and. • alter the business we conduct.. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we will be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. The failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit agreement. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. If this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facilities or it may be on terms that are not acceptable to us.. 21. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Any future refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants which could further restrict our business operations. Additionally, the credit agreement and the indentures that govern our senior notes limit the use of the proceeds from certain dispositions of our assets; as a result, our credit agreement and our senior notes may prevent us from using the proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all of our debt service obligations.. Our future capital needs may require that we seek to refinance our debt or obtain additional debt or equity financing, events that could have a negative effect on our business.. We may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, refinance existing debt, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. From time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. Funds may not be available or available on terms acceptable to us as a result of different factors, including but not limited to turmoil in the credit markets that results in the tightening of credit conditions and current or future regulations applicable to the financial institutions from whom we seek financing. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and further limitations on our operations. If we refinance or restructure our debt, we may incur charges to write off the unamortized portion of deferred debt issuance costs from a previous financing, or we may incur charges related to hedge ineffectiveness from our interest rate swap obligations. In addition, there are restrictions in the indenture that governs the U.S. Notes (2023) on our ability to refinance such notes prior to May 15, 2018. There are also restrictions in the indenture that governs the Euro Notes (2024) on our ability to refinance such notes prior to January 1, 2024. If we fail to raise capital when needed, our business may be negatively affected.. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our indebtedness service obligations to increase significantly and could affect the value of our senior notes.. Certain borrowings under our credit agreement and the borrowing under our accounts receivable securitization facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease. Moreover, changes in market interest rates could affect the trading value of the notes. Assuming all revolving loans were fully drawn and no interest rate swaps were in place, each one percentage point change in interest rates would result in a $36 million change in annual cash interest expense under our credit agreement and our accounts receivable securitization facility.. Repayment of our indebtedness, including our senior notes, is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries.. We are a holding company and repayment of our senior notes will be dependent upon cash flow generated by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they are borrowers or guarantors of the indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness, including the senior notes. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries and, under certain circumstances, distributions from our subsidiaries may be subject to significant taxes that reduce the amount of such distributions available to us. While the indentures governing the senior notes limit the ability of our subsidiaries to restrict the payment of dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, including the senior notes.. 22. A downgrade in our credit rating would impact our cost of capital and could impact the market value of our senior notes.. Credit ratings have an important effect on our cost of capital. Credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include, among other items, our results of operations, business decisions that we make, their view of the general outlook for our industry, and their view of the general outlook for the economy. Actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading, or downgrading the current rating or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading. We believe our current credit ratings enhance our ability to borrow funds at favorable rates.  A downgrade in our current credit rating from a rating agency could adversely affect our cost of capital by causing us to pay a higher interest rate on borrowed funds under our credit facilities. A downgrade could also adversely affect the market price and/or liquidity of our senior notes, preventing a holder from selling the senior notes at a favorable price, as well as adversely affecting our ability to issue new notes in the future or incur other indebtedness upon favorable terms.. The right to receive payments on the senior notes is effectively junior to those lenders who have a security interest in our assets.. Our obligations under our senior notes and our guarantors' obligations under their guarantees of the senior notes are unsecured, but our and each co-borrower's obligations under our credit agreement and each guarantor's obligations under their respective guarantees of the credit agreement are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our domestic tangible and intangible assets, including the stock of most of our wholly-owned United States subsidiaries and the stock of certain of our non-United States subsidiaries. If we are declared bankrupt or insolvent, or if we default under our credit agreement, the lenders could declare all of the funds borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged assets to the exclusion of holders of our senior notes, even if an event of default exists under the applicable indenture governing the senior notes. Furthermore, if the lenders foreclose and sell the pledged equity interests in any subsidiary guarantor under our senior notes, then that guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the senior notes automatically and immediately upon such sale. In any such event, because the senior notes are not secured by any of our assets or the equity interests in subsidiary guarantors, it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which claims by holders of the senior notes could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to satisfy claims fully. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $2.1 billion aggregate principal amount of secured debt outstanding and approximately $1.4 billion of availability under the credit agreement ($1.5 billion of availability reduced by $71 million of amounts outstanding under letters of credit).. United States federal and state statutes allow courts, under specific circumstances, to void the senior notes and the guarantees, subordinate claims in respect of the senior notes and the guarantees, and require holders of the senior notes to return payments received from us or the guarantors.. Our direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries that are obligors under the credit agreement guarantee the obligations under our senior notes. In addition, certain subsidiaries of the issuer of the Euro Notes (2024) guarantee the obligations under the Euro Notes (2024). The issuance of our senior notes and the issuance of the guarantees by the guarantors may be subject to review under state and federal laws if a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization case or a lawsuit, including in circumstances in which bankruptcy is not involved, were commenced at some future date by, or on behalf of, our unpaid creditors or the unpaid creditors of a guarantor. Under the federal bankruptcy laws of the United States and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, a court may avoid or otherwise decline to enforce the senior notes, or a guarantor's guarantee, or may subordinate the senior notes, or such guarantee, to our or the applicable guarantor's existing and future indebtedness. While the relevant laws may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, a court might do so if it found that when indebtedness under the senior notes was issued, or when the applicable guarantor entered into its guarantee, or, in some jurisdictions, when payments became due under the senior notes, or such guarantee, the issuer or the applicable guarantor received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration and:. • was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such incurrence;. • was engaged in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or. • intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature.. A court would likely find that we or a guarantor did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the senior notes or such guarantee if we or such guarantor did not substantially benefit directly or indirectly from the issuance of the senior notes. Thus, if the guarantees were legally challenged, any guarantee could be subject to the claim that, since the guarantee was incurred for our benefit, and only indirectly for the benefit of the guarantor, the obligations of the applicable guarantor were incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration. If a court were to void the issuance of the senior notes or any guarantee, a holder of the senior notes would no longer have any claim against us or the applicable guarantor. In the event of a finding that a fraudulent transfer or conveyance occurred, a holder of the senior notes may not receive any repayment on the senior notes. Further, the avoidance of the senior notes could result in an event of default with respect to our and our subsidiaries' other debt, which could result in acceleration of that debt. The measures of insolvency for. 23. purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred. Generally, however, an issuer or a guarantor, as applicable, would be considered insolvent if:. • the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair value of its assets;. • the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or. • it could not pay its debts as they become due.. A court might also void the senior notes, or a guarantee, without regard to the above factors, if the court found that the senior notes were incurred or issued or the applicable guarantor entered into its guarantee with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud its creditors. We cannot give any assurance as to what standard a court would apply in determining whether we or the guarantors were solvent at the relevant time or that a court would agree with our conclusions in this regard, or, regardless of the standard that a court uses, that it would not determine that we or a guarantor were indeed insolvent on that date; that any payments to the holders of the senior notes (including under the guarantees) did not constitute preferences, fraudulent transfers or conveyances on other grounds; or that the issuance of the senior notes and the guarantees would not be subordinated to our or any guarantor's other debt. In addition, any payment by us or a guarantor pursuant to the senior notes, or its guarantee, could be avoided and required to be returned to us or such guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of our or such guarantor's creditors, and accordingly the court might direct holders of the senior notes to repay any amounts already received from us or such guarantor. Among other things, under U.S. bankruptcy law, any payment by us pursuant to the senior notes or by a guarantor under a guarantee made at a time we or such guarantor were found to be insolvent could be voided and required to be returned to us or such guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of our or such guarantor's creditors if such payment is made to an insider within a one-year period prior to a bankruptcy filing or within 90 days for any outside party and such payment would give such insider or outsider party more than such party would have received in a distribution under the Bankruptcy Code in a hypothetical Chapter 7 case. Although each guarantee contains a \"savings clause\" intended to limit the subsidiary guarantor's liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the incurrence of obligations under its subsidiary guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer, this provision may not be effective as a legal matter to protect any subsidiary guarantees from being avoided under fraudulent transfer law. In that regard, in Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of TOUSA, Inc. v Citicorp North America, Inc ., the United States Bankruptcy Court in the Southern District of Florida held that a savings clause similar to the savings clause included in our indentures was unenforceable. As a result, the subsidiary guarantees were found to be fraudulent conveyances. The United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit subsequently affirmed the liability findings of the Bankruptcy Court without ruling directly on the enforceability of savings clauses generally. If the decision of the bankruptcy court in TOUSA were followed by other courts, the risk that the guarantees would be deemed fraudulent conveyances would be significantly increased.. To the extent a court avoids the senior notes or any of the guarantees as fraudulent transfers or holds the senior notes or any of the guarantees unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of the senior notes would cease to have any direct claim against us or the applicable guarantor. If a court were to take this action, our or the applicable guarantor's assets would be applied first to satisfy our or the applicable guarantor's other liabilities, if any, and might not be applied to the payment of the senior notes. Sufficient funds to repay the senior notes may not be available from other sources, including the remaining guarantors, if any. In addition, the Euro Notes (2024) and the guarantees may be subject to avoidance under the laws of other foreign jurisdictions, including Italy and Czech Republic, to the extent that we, the issuer of the Euro Notes (2024), or any of the guarantors (as applicable) were to be the subject of an insolvency or related proceeding in such jurisdiction(s).. Not all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed our credit agreement or our senior notes, and the assets of our non-guarantor subsidiaries may not be available to make payments on such obligations.. Not all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed the credit agreement, our U.S. Notes (2023) or our Euro Notes (2024). In the event that any non-guarantor subsidiary becomes insolvent, liquidates, reorganizes, dissolves or otherwise winds up, holders of its indebtedness and its trade creditors generally will be entitled to payment on their claims from the assets of that subsidiary before any of those assets are made available to the lenders under the credit agreement or the holders of the senior notes. Consequently, claims in respect of the credit agreement and the senior notes are structurally subordinated to all of the liabilities of our subsidiaries that are not guarantors of such instruments, including trade payables, and any claims of third party holders of preferred equity interests, if any, in our non-guarantor subsidiaries. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our subsidiaries that are not borrowers under or do not guarantee the credit agreement and our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the U.S. Notes (2023) represented approximately 42% and 26% of our total revenue and operating income, respectively. In addition, these non-guarantor subsidiaries represented approximately 49% and 41% of our total assets and total liabilities, respectively, as of December 31, 2017 (excluding, in each case, intercompany amounts). As of the same date, our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the credit agreement or the U.S. Notes (2023) had approximately $1.3 billion of outstanding indebtedness (which includes $460 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facilities by foreign subsidiaries that are borrowers under the revolving credit facilities but that do not guarantee the U.S. Notes (2023)). The group of subsidiaries that does not guarantee the. 24. Euro Notes (2024) is similar to the group that does not guarantee the U.S. Notes (2023), except that, in addition to the issuer of the Euro Notes (2024), there are four subsidiaries in the group that does not guarantee the U.S. Notes (2023) that guarantee the Euro Notes (2024).. We may not be able to repurchase the senior notes upon a change of control or pursuant to an asset sale offer.. Upon a change of control, as defined in the indentures governing the senior notes, the holders of the senior notes will have the right to require us to offer to purchase all of the senior notes then outstanding at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. Such a change of control would also be an event of default under our credit agreement. In order to obtain sufficient funds to pay amounts due under the credit agreement and the purchase price of the outstanding senior notes, we expect that we would have to refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance our indebtedness on reasonable terms, if at all. Our failure to offer to purchase all outstanding senior notes or to purchase all validly tendered senior notes would be an event of default under the indenture. Such an event of default may cause the acceleration of our other debt. Our other debt also may contain restrictions on repayment requirements with respect to specified events or transactions that constitute a change of control under the indenture.. The definition of change of control in the indentures governing the senior notes includes a phrase relating to the sale of \"all or substantially all\" of our assets. There is no precise established definition of the phrase \"substantially all\" under applicable law. Accordingly, the ability of a holder of senior notes to require us to repurchase its senior notes as a result of a sale of less than all our assets to another person may be uncertain.. In addition, in certain circumstances as specified in the indentures governing the senior notes, we will be required to commence an asset sale offer, as defined in the indentures governing the senior notes, pursuant to which we will be obligated to purchase certain senior notes at a price equal to 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest with the proceeds we receive from certain asset sales. Our other debt may contain restrictions that would limit or prohibit us from completing any such asset sale offer. In particular, our credit agreement contains provisions that require us, upon the sale of certain assets, to apply all of the proceeds from such asset sale to the prepayment of amounts due under the credit agreement. The mandatory prepayment obligations under the credit agreement will be effectively senior to our obligations to make an asset sale offer with respect to the senior notes under the terms of the indentures governing the senior notes. Our failure to purchase any such senior notes when required under the indentures would be an event of default under the indentures.. Key terms of the senior notes will be suspended if the notes achieve investment grade ratings and no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing.. Many of the covenants in the indentures governing the senior notes will be suspended if the senior notes are rated investment grade by Standard & Poor's and Moody's provided at such time no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing, including those covenants that restrict, among other things, our ability to pay dividends, incur liens and to enter into certain other transactions. There can be no assurance that the senior notes will ever be rated investment grade. However, suspension of these covenants would allow us to engage in certain transactions that would not be permitted while these covenants were in force (although provisions under our other debt, like the credit agreement, may continue to restrict us from engaging in these transactions), and the effects of any such transactions will be permitted to remain in place even if the senior notes are subsequently downgraded below investment grade.. The liquidity and market value of the senior notes may change due to a variety of factors.. The liquidity of any trading market in the senior notes, and the market price quoted for the senior notes, may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for these types of securities, changes in interest rates, changes in our ratings, and changes in our financial performance or prospects or in the prospects for companies in our industries generally.. We rely on an accounts receivable securitization program for a portion of our liquidity.. We have an arrangement whereby we sell an interest in a portion of our accounts receivable to a special purpose vehicle and receive funding through the commercial paper market. This arrangement expires in November 2019.  In the event that the market for commercial paper were to close or otherwise become constrained, our cost of credit relative to this program could rise, or credit could be unavailable altogether."
