[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K before making an investment decision with regard to our securities. The statements contained in or incorporated herein that are not historic facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that case, you may lose all or part of your investment.. 7   Table of Contents. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY. We have incurred net losses since inception. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future and may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have never generated revenue and may never be profitable.. Since our inception in 2010, we have incurred net losses. Our net loss for the year ended February 28, 2018 was $14.0 million. We have one customer and we have earned no revenues to date. We have financed our operations primarily through private placements of our common stock and have devoted substantially all of our efforts to research and development, as well as building our team. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and increasing operating losses for the foreseeable future. The net losses we incur may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Although we believe that our business plan has significant profit potential, we may not attain profitable operations and management may not succeed in realizing our business objectives. Our ability to generate revenue depends on our ability to successfully complete the development of our products, obtain the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize our products and attract additional customers. We may not generate revenues from product sales for the next several years, if ever. If we are not able to develop our business as anticipated, we may not be able to generate revenues or achieve profitability.. Our limited operating history may make it difficult for you to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability.. Our business was started in October 2014 with the incorporation of Loop Holdings, Inc. and the acquisition of intellectual property from Hatem Essaddam who sold the technology and related intellectual property rights to Loop Holdings in October 2014, pursuant to an Intellectual Property Assignment Agreement dated October 27, 2014, by and among Hatem Essaddam, Loop Holdings, and Daniel Solomita. Our operations to date have been primarily limited to organizing and staffing our company, business planning, raising capital and developing our technology. We have not yet demonstrated the ability to manufacture a commercial-scale product or conduct sales and marketing activities necessary for successful commercialization. Consequently, any predictions you make about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history. In addition, as a new business, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other known and unknown factors. We will need to transition from a company with a research focus to a company that is also capable of supporting commercial activities. We may not be successful in such a transition.. We may not be able to execute our business plan or stay in business without additional funding.. Our ability to generate future operating revenues depends in part on whether we can obtain the financing necessary to implement our business plan. We will likely require additional financing through the issuance of debt and/or equity in order to establish profitable operations, and such financing may not be forthcoming. If we are unable to attract investors to invest in our business, we may not be able to acquire additional financing through debt or equity markets. Even if additional financing is available, it may not be available on terms favorable to us. Our failure to secure additional financing on favorable terms when it becomes required would have an adverse effect on our ability to remain in business.. 8   Table of Contents. Our technology may not be successful in developing commercial products.. We and our potential future collaborators may spend many years and dedicate significant financial and other resources developing our technology that may never be commercialized. Our technology may never become commercialized for any of the following reasons:. · we may not be able to secure sufficient funding to progress our technology through development and commercial validation;   · we or our future collaborators may be unable to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for our technology;   · competitors may launch competing or more effective technology;   · our technology may not be commercially successful;   · future collaborators may be unable to fully develop and commercialize products containing our technology or may decide, for whatever reason, not to commercialize such products; and   ·  we may not be successful in securing adequate patent protection in the necessary jurisdictions.. If any of these things were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations.. If we are unable to successfully scale our manufacturing processes, we may not meet customer demand.. To be successful, we will have to successfully scale our manufacturing processes while maintaining high product quality and reliability. If we cannot maintain high product quality on a large scale, our business will be adversely affected. We may encounter difficulties in scaling up production, including problems with the supply of key components. Even if we are successful in developing our manufacturing capability, we do not know whether we will do so in time to satisfy the requirements of our customers. The current manufacturing facility is a pilot plant with limited production capacity. In order to fully implement our business plan, we will need to move the operations to a larger facility, develop strategic partnerships or find other means to produce greater volumes of finished product.. Decreases in our ability to develop or apply new technology and know-how may affect our competitiveness.. Our success depends partially on our ability to improve production processes and services. We must also introduce new products and services to meet changing customer needs. If we are unable to implement better production processes or to develop new products through research and development or licensing of new technology, we may not be able to remain competitive with other manufacturers. As a result, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. Disruption at, damage to or destruction of our pilot plant or facilities could impede our ability to continue innovating and refining our technological process, which would harm our business, financial condition and operating results.. Our research and development activities are performed from a single location in Terrebonne, Quebec. Our continued innovation activities rely on uninterrupted and fully functioning pilot plant. Interruptions in operations at this location could result in our inability to provide the most efficient and effective technological solution to our customers. A number of factors could cause interruptions, including, but not limited to, equipment malfunctions or failures, technology malfunctions, work stoppages or slow-downs, damage to or destruction of the facility or regional power shortages. As our equipment ages, it will need to be replaced. Any disruption that impedes our ability to optimize our process in a timely manner could reduce our revenues and materially harm our business.. The plastics manufacturing industry is extremely price competitive because of the commodity like nature of PET resin and its correlation to the price of crude oil. If our cost to manufacture recycled PET is not competitive with virgin PET or if the price of oil reduces significantly, it may adversely impact our ability to penetrate the market or be profitable.. The demand for recycled PET has fluctuated with the price of crude oil. If crude oil prices decline, the cost to manufacture recycled PET may become comparatively higher than the cost to manufacture virgin PET. Our ability to penetrate the market will depend in part on the cost of manufacturing virgin PET and if we do not successfully distinguish our product from those of virgin PET manufacturers our entry into the market and our ability to secure customer contracts can be adversely affected.. 9   Table of Contents. We are vulnerable to fluctuations in the supply and price of raw materials.. We purchase raw materials and packaging supplies from several sources. While all such materials are available from independent suppliers, raw materials are subject to fluctuations in price and availability attributable to a number of factors, including general economic conditions, commodity price fluctuations, the demand by other industries for the same raw materials and the availability of complementary and substitute materials. The profitability of our business also depends on the availability and proximity of these raw materials to our factories. The choice of raw materials to be used at our facility is determined primarily by the price and availability, the yield loss of lower quality raw materials, and the capabilities of the producer's production facility. Additionally, the high cost of transportation could favor suppliers located in close proximity to our factories. If the quality of these raw materials is lower, the quality of our product may suffer. Economic and financial factors could impact our suppliers, thereby causing supply shortages. Increases in raw material costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our hedging procedures may be insufficient and our results could be materially impacted if costs of materials increase.. The loss of the services of Mr. Daniel Solomita, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board of Directors, and majority stockholder, or our failure to timely identify and retain competent personnel could negatively impact our ability to develop our business.. The development of our business and the marketing of our prospective products will continue to place a significant strain on our limited personnel, management, and other resources. Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers who are developing our business, and on our ability to identify and retain competent consultants and employees with the skills required to execute our business objectives. The loss of the services of Mr. Daniel Solomita or our failure to timely identify and retain competent personnel could negatively impact our ability to develop our business which could adversely affect our financial results and impair our growth.. Our pilot plant continues to be modernized and we have not yet fully implemented all policies, procedures, and controls for the operation of a chemical manufacturing facility as required under various federal, provincial and local regulations and codes.. We are subject to health and safety as well as environmental, zoning and any other regulatory requirements to operate our pilot plant, and as our business evolves, we, directly or indirectly through our partners or other related parties, may be subject to additional government regulations. Any failure to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, as well as discovery of previously unknown problems, may result in, among other things, costly regulatory inspections, fines or remediation plans. If regulatory issues arise, the value of our business and our operating results may be adversely affected.. Additionally, applicable regulations may change, and additional government regulations may be enacted that could impact our business. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, are slow or unable to adopt new requirements or policies, or effect changes to existing requirements, our business may be adversely affected.. Our failure to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology may significantly impair our competitive advantage.. Our success and ability to compete depends in large part upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret protection, confidentiality, nondisclosure and nonuse agreements to protect our proprietary rights. The steps we have taken may not be sufficient to prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. The patent and trademark law and trade secret protection may not be adequate to deter third party infringement or misappropriation of our patents, trademarks and similar proprietary rights.. We may face costly intellectual property infringement claims, the result of which would decrease the amount of cash we would require to operate and complete our business plan.. We anticipate that, from time to time, we will receive communications from third parties asserting that we are infringing certain patents and other intellectual property rights of others or seeking indemnification against alleged infringement. If anticipated claims arise, we will evaluate their merits. Any claims of infringement brought forth by third parties could result in protracted and costly litigation, damages for infringement, and the necessity of obtaining a license relating to one or more of our products or current or future technologies, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and diversion of our resources, may be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others. Any intellectual property litigation and the failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 10   Table of Contents. We rely in part on trade secrets to protect our technology, and our failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could harm our business.. We rely on trade secrets to protect some of our technology and proprietary information, especially where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Litigating a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and used our trade secrets would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop similar knowledge, methods and know-how, it will be difficult for us to enforce our rights and our business could be harmed.. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and, if our remediation of these material weaknesses is not effective, or if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting in the future, we may not be able to accurately or timely report our financial condition or results of operations, which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and the price of our common stock.. We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (\"Section 404\"). Section 404 requires us to include an internal control report with our Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report must include management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as at the end of the fiscal year. This report must also include disclosure of any material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting that we have identified.. As at February 28, 2017, we concluded that there were few formalized procedures around financial reporting within the Company. In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we identified a material weakness pertaining to the accounting for stock-based compensation, which contributed to the restatement of previously issued 2017 annual consolidated financial statements and of our first and second quarter financial statements for fiscal 2018.. We have taken steps to remediate the issues that contributed to the material weaknesses and while we believe that these efforts will improve our internal control over financial reporting, the implementation of remedial measures is ongoing and will require validation and testing of the design and operating effectiveness of internal controls over a sustained period of financial reporting cycles. We cannot assure you that the measures we have taken to date, and are continuing to implement, will be sufficient to remediate the material weakness we have identified or avoid potential future material weaknesses. If the steps we have taken and continue to take do not correct the material weakness in a timely manner, we will be unable to conclude that we maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting. Accordingly, there continues to be a reasonable possibility that these deficiencies or others could result in a misstatement of our accounts or disclosures that would result in a material misstatement of our financial statements that would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.. The process of designing and implementing internal control over financial reporting required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will be time consuming, costly and complicated. If during the evaluation and testing process, we identify one or more other material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or determine that existing material weaknesses have not been remediated, our management will be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may conclude that there are material weaknesses with respect to our internal controls or the level at which our internal controls are documented, designed, implemented or reviewed. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or when required in the future, if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected and we could become subject to litigation or investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources.. 11   Table of Contents. We are subject to risks associated with currency fluctuations, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our results of operations.. We operate mainly through two entities, Loop Industries, Inc., which is a Nevada corporation and has a U.S. dollar functional currency, and our wholly-owned subsidiary, Loop Canada Inc. (\"Loop Canada\"), which is based in Terrebonne, Québec, Canada and has a Canadian dollar functional currency. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar.. We mainly finance our operations through the sale and issuance of shares of common stock of Loop Industries, Inc. in U.S. dollars while our operations are concentrated in our wholly-owned subsidiary, Loop Canada. Accordingly, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk as we maintain bank accounts in U.S. dollars and a significant portion of our operational costs (including payroll, site costs, costs of locally sourced supplies and income taxes) are denominated in Canadian dollars.. Significant fluctuations in U.S. dollar to Canadian dollar exchange rates could materially affect our result of operations, cash position and funding requirements. To the extent that fluctuations in currency exchange rates cause our results of operations to differ materially from our expectations or the expectations of our investors, the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected.. From time to time, we may engage in exchange rate hedging activities in an effort to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. As part of our risk management program, we may enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to lock in the exchange rates for future foreign currency transactions, which is intended to reduce the variability of our operating costs and future cash flows denominated in currencies that differs from our functional currencies. We do not enter into these contracts for trading purposes or speculation, and our management believes all such contracts are entered into as hedges of underlying transactions. Nonetheless, these instruments involve costs and have risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. If our hedging program is not successful, or if we change our hedging activities in the future, we may experience significant unexpected expenses from fluctuations in exchange rates. Any hedging technique we implement may fail to be effective. If our hedging activities are not effective, changes in currency exchange rates may have a more significant impact on the trading price of our common stock.. We are subject to certain risks related to litigation filed by or against us, and adverse results may harm our business.. We cannot predict with certainty the cost of defense, of prosecution or of the ultimate outcome of litigation and other proceedings filed by or against us, including penalties or other civil or criminal sanctions, or remedies or damage awards, and adverse results in any litigation and other proceedings may materially harm our business. Litigation and other proceedings may include, but are not limited to, actions relating to intellectual property, international trade, commercial arrangements, product liability, environmental, health and safety, joint venture agreements, labor and employment or other harms resulting from the actions of individuals or entities outside of our control. In the case of intellectual property litigation and proceedings, adverse outcomes could include the cancellation, invalidation or other loss of material intellectual property rights used in our business and injunctions prohibiting our use of business processes or technology that are subject to third-party patents or other third-party intellectual property rights.. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR SECURITIES. Raising additional funds may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies.. If we raise additional funds through equity offerings or offerings of equity-linked securities, including warrants or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders may experience significant dilution, and the terms of such securities may include liquidation or other preferences that may adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. Debt financings, if available, may subject us to restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities, including covenants limiting or restricting our ability to incur additional debt, dispose of assets or incur capital expenditures. We may also incur ongoing interest expense and be required to grant a security interest in our assets in connection with any debt issuance. If we raise additional funds through strategic partnerships or licensing agreements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us.. 12   Table of Contents. Trading volume in our stock can fluctuate and an active trading market for our common stock may not be available on a consistent basis to provide stockholders with adequate liquidity. Our stock price may be volatile and our stockholders could incur significant investment losses.. The trading price for our common stock will be affected by a number of factors, including:. · any change in the status of our Nasdaq listing;   · the need for near-term financing to continue operations;   · reported progress in our efforts to develop and commercialize our technology, relative to investor expectations;   · general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors;   · future issuances and/or sales of our securities;   · announcements or the absence of announcements by us, or our competitors, regarding collaborations, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments;   · commencement of, or involvement in, litigation;   · any major change in our board of directors or management;   · changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals;   · announcements related to patents issued to us or our competitors and to litigation involving our intellectual property;   · a lack of, or limited, or negative industry or security analyst coverage;   · uncertainty regarding our ability to secure additional cash resources with which to operate our business;   · short-selling or similar activities by third parties; and   · other factors described elsewhere in these Risk Factors.. As a result of these factors, our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares at, or above, their purchase price. In addition, the stock prices of many technology companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. Any negative change in the public's perception of the prospects of companies in our industry could depress our stock price regardless of our results of operations. These factors may have a material adverse effect on the market price and liquidity of our common stock and affect our ability to obtain required financing.. Our President and Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr. Daniel Solomita, beneficially owns a majority of our capital stock, and accordingly, has control over stockholder matters, our business and management.. As at May 4, 2018, Mr. Daniel Solomita, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board of Directors, and majority stockholder, beneficially owns 18,600,000 shares of common stock, or 55% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock and also holds one share of Series A Preferred Stock. The one share of Series A Preferred Stock issued to Mr. Solomita holds a majority of the total voting power so long as Mr. Solomita holds not less than 7.5% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, assuring that Mr. Solomita retains control even if his presently-held 55% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock is diluted to a level below a majority.. Additionally, the one share of Series A Preferred Stock issued to Mr. Solomita contains protective provisions, which precludes us from taking certain actions without Mr. Solomita's (or that of any person to whom the one share of Series A Preferred Stock is transferred) approval. More specifically, so long as any shares of Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, we are not permitted to take certain actions without first obtaining the approval (by vote or written consent, as provided by law) of the holders of at least a majority of the then outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock, voting as a separate class, including for example and without limitation, amending our articles of incorporation, changing or modifying the rights of the Series A Preferred Stock, including increasing or decreasing the number of authorized shares of Series A Preferred Stock, increasing or decreasing the size of the board of directors or remove the director appointed by the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock and declaring or paying any dividend or other distribution.. 13   Table of Contents. Moreover, because of the significant ownership position held by our insiders, new investors may not be able to effect a change in our business or management, and therefore, stockholders would have no recourse as a result of decisions made by management.. In addition, sales of significant amounts of shares held by Mr. Solomita, or the prospect of these sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Management's stock ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over our stock price.. Anti-takeover effects of certain provisions of Nevada state law hinder a potential takeover of our company.. Though not now, we may in the future become subject to Nevada's control share law. A corporation is subject to Nevada's control share law if it has more than 200 stockholders, at least 100 of whom are stockholders of record and residents of Nevada, and it does business in Nevada or through an affiliated corporation. The law focuses on the acquisition of a \"controlling interest\" which means the ownership of outstanding voting shares sufficient, but for the control share law, to enable the acquiring person to exercise the following proportions of the voting power of the company in the election of directors: (i) one-fifth or more but less than one-third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more. The ability to exercise such voting power may be direct or indirect, as well as individual or in association with others.. The effect of the control share law is that the acquiring person, and those acting in association with it, obtains only such voting rights in the control shares as are conferred by a resolution of the stockholders of the Company, approved at a special or annual meeting of stockholders. The control share law contemplates that voting rights will be considered only once by the other stockholders. Thus, there is no authority to strip voting rights from the control shares of an acquiring person once those rights have been approved. If the stockholders do not grant voting rights to the control shares acquired by an acquiring person, those shares do not become permanent non-voting shares. The acquiring person is free to sell its shares to others. If the buyers of those shares themselves do not acquire a controlling interest, their shares do not become governed by the control share law.. If control shares are accorded full voting rights and the acquiring person has acquired control shares with a majority or more of the voting power, any stockholder of record, other than an acquiring person, who has not voted in favor of approval of voting rights, is entitled to demand fair value for such stockholder's shares.. In addition to the control share law, Nevada has a business combination law which prohibits certain business combinations between Nevada corporations and \"interested stockholders\" for three years after the \"interested stockholder\" first becomes an \"interested stockholder,\" unless the company's board of directors approves the combination in advance. For purposes of Nevada law, an \"interested stockholder\" is any person who is (i) the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of ten percent or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting shares of the company, or (ii) an affiliate or associate of the company and at any time within the two previous years was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of ten percent or more of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of the company. The definition of the term \"combination\" is sufficiently broad to cover virtually any kind of transaction that would allow a potential acquirer to use the company's assets to finance the acquisition or otherwise to benefit its own interests rather than the interests of the company and its other stockholders.. The effect of Nevada's business combination law is to potentially discourage parties interested in taking control of us from doing so if it cannot obtain the approval of our board of directors.. Because we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless they sell them.. We intend to retain any future earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Unless we pay dividends, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless they sell them. Stockholders may not be able to sell shares when desired. Before you invest in our securities, you should be aware that there are various risks. You should consider carefully these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report before you decide to purchase our securities. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. 14   Table of Contents. The recently passed comprehensive tax reform bill could adversely affect our business and financial results.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\") that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The TCJA, among other things, includes changes to U.S. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest and net operating loss carryforwards, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, and puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business and we urge our stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in our common stock."
