[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Company's consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows can be adversely affected by various risks. These risks include the principal factors listed below and the other matters set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K. You should carefully consider all of these risks.. Risks Relating to the Business of the Company. The highly competitive market for our products and industry fragmentation may continue to create adverse price pressures.. The markets for the majority of our product categories are highly fragmented and we have a large number of competitors. Management believes that excess capacity in our markets, as well as increasing consolidation of our customer base has caused downward price pressure for our products and that this trend is likely to continue. In addition, consolidation in the markets in which we compete may increase competitive price pressures due to competitors lowering prices as a result of synergies achieved.. 11. We may be unable to improve our operating efficiency rapidly enough to meet market conditions.. Because the markets in which we compete are highly competitive, we must continue to improve our operating efficiency in order to maintain or improve our profitability. There is no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. In addition, the need to reduce ongoing operating costs may result in significant up-front costs to reduce workforce, close or consolidate facilities, or upgrade equipment and technology, which could negatively impact the Company's consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows.. The substitution of electronic delivery for printed materials may continue to adversely affect our businesses.. Electronic delivery of documents and data, including the online distribution and hosting of media content, offer alternatives to traditional delivery of print materials. Consumers continue to accept electronic substitution in directory printing and are replacing traditional reading of print materials with online, hosted media content or e-reading devices. The extent to which consumers will continue to accept electronic delivery is uncertain and it is difficult to predict future rates of acceptance of these alternatives. Electronic delivery has negatively impacted some of our products, such as directories and books. Digital technologies have also impacted printed magazines, as some advertising spending has started transitioning from print to electronic media. To the extent that consumers and customers continue to accept these alternatives, our consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows could be negatively impacted.. Global market and economic conditions, as well as the effects of these conditions on our customers' businesses, could adversely affect us, as the financial condition of our customers may deteriorate.. Global economic conditions affect our customers' businesses and the markets they serve. Because a significant part of our business relies on advertising spending, which is driven in part by economic conditions and consumer spending, a prolonged downturn in the global economy and an uncertain economic outlook could further reduce the demand for the printing and related services that we provide. Delays or reductions in customers' spending would have an adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could be material, and consequently could negatively impact our results of consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows. Economic weakness and constrained advertising spending may result in decreased net sales, operating margin, earnings and growth rates and difficulty in managing inventory levels and collecting accounts receivable. Our exposure to industries experiencing financial difficulties and certain financially troubled customers could negatively impact our consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows. Further, a lack of liquidity in the capital markets or a sustained period of unfavorable economic conditions could increase our exposure to credit risks of our customers and result in increases in bad debt write-offs and allowances for doubtful accounts receivable. We may experience operating margin declines, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive price pressures, inventory write-downs, cost increases for wages and materials, and increases in pension plan funding requirements. Economic downturns may also result in restructuring actions and associated expenses and impairment of long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangibles. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments.. Adverse credit market conditions may limit the Company's ability to obtain future financing.. We may, from time to time, depend on access to the credit markets. Uncertainty and volatility in global financial markets may cause financial markets institutions to fail or may cause lenders to hoard capital and reduce lending. The failure of a financial institution that supports the Company's existing credit agreement would reduce the size of its committed facility unless a replacement institution were added.. Our business is subject to risks associated with seasonality, which could negatively impact our consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows.. Our sales and cash flows are affected by seasonality, as print demand is affected by advertising and consumer spending trends. Historically, demand for printing of magazines, catalogs, retail inserts, books and office products is higher in the second half of the year, driven by increased advertising pages within magazines, holiday volume in catalogs and retail inserts, and back-to-school demand in books and office products. These typical seasonal patterns can be impacted by overall trends in the U.S. and world economy. For these reasons, sequential quarterly comparisons are not a good indication of our performance or how we may perform in the future. If we are unable to obtain access to financing sources to fund our working capital needs or if seasonal fluctuations are greater than anticipated, this could negatively impact our consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows.. 12. Increases in the prices of paper, ink, energy and other raw materials may adversely impact us.. Purchases of paper, ink, energy and other raw materials represent a large portion of our costs. Increases in the prices of these inputs may increase our costs, and we may not be able to pass these increased costs on to customers through higher prices, or to the extent we pass along such costs by increasing our prices to our customers, it may adversely impact customers' demand for our printing and related services.. Decreases in the market prices for waste paper or other byproducts may adversely impact us.. Decreases in the prices paid by third parties for waste paper and other print-related byproducts may make it infeasible for us to sell, or adversely impact the amounts we are paid, from sales of such byproducts.. We may be adversely affected by a decline in the availability of raw materials.. We are dependent on the availability of paper, ink and other raw materials to support our operations. Unforeseen developments in these markets could result in a decrease in the supply of paper, ink or other raw materials and could cause us to be unable to meet contractual commitments to our customers or result in a decline in our net sales.. We rely on a key supplier for ink and if such supplier breaches or is unable to perform certain obligations under our arrangement with them, we may be unable to procure comparable supply from another supplier in a timely fashion, or when we are able to procure such supply, such supply may be on worse terms.. A significant portion of our ink comes from a single supplier pursuant to a multi-year supply agreement. The ink industry has faced significant challenges in recent years, as the demand for ink has declined while the costs of raw materials used to manufacture ink have fluctuated. We rely on this ink supplier to meet a significant portion of our ink needs, and have negotiated a contract that provides us with favorable terms and certain contingencies from supply disruption. A disruption in the supply of ink from this supplier, either from natural disaster, financial bankruptcy or other supply interruption, may require us to purchase a significant amount of ink from other suppliers or assume the production ourselves, which in either case, may be on worse terms and slow our production, either of which could have a negative impact on our consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows.. We have in the past acquired and intend in the future to acquire other businesses, and we may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of these businesses and may not achieve the cost savings and increased net sales anticipated as a result of these acquisitions.. Achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions will depend in part upon our ability to integrate these businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and we may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. In particular, the coordination of geographically dispersed organizations with differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. The integration of acquired businesses may also require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract management's attention from the day-to-day operations of the Company. In addition, the process of integrating operations may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the Company's businesses and the loss of key personnel from the Company or the acquired businesses. Further, employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may disrupt the businesses of the Company or the acquired businesses.. The Company's strategy is, in part, predicated on the Company's ability to realize cost savings and to increase net sales through the acquisition of businesses that add to the breadth and depth of the Company's products and services. Achieving these cost savings and net sales increases is dependent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control. In particular, the Company may not be able to realize the benefits of more comprehensive product and service offerings, anticipated integration of sales forces, asset rationalization and systems integration.. 13. We may be subject to more intensive competition if our competitors pursue consolidations.. We currently have a large number of competitors in the markets in which we operate. We believe that selectively pursuing acquisitions is an important strategy for our business. If our competitors are able to successfully combine with one another, and we are not successful with our own efforts to consolidate or adapt effectively to increased competition, the competitive landscape we face could be significantly altered. Such consolidation could create stronger competitors with greater financial resources and broader manufacturing and distribution capabilities than our own, and the resulting increase in competitive pressures could negatively impact our consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows.. Our business is dependent upon brand recognition and reputation, and the failure to maintain or enhance our brands or reputation would likely have an adverse effect on our business.. Our brand recognition, particularly in our Office Products segment, and reputation generally are important aspects of our business. Maintaining and further enhancing our brands and reputation will be important to retaining and attracting customers for our products. We also believe that the importance of our brand recognition and reputation for products will continue to increase as competition in the market for our products continues to increase. Our success in this area will be dependent on a wide range of factors, some of which are out of our control, including our ability to retain existing and obtain new customers and strategic partners, the quality and perceived value of our products, actions of our competitors, and positive or negative publicity. Our reputation also depends on the quality of our customer service, and if our customer service declines, our reputation may also decline. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our products and could negatively impact our consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows.. We may be unable to hire and retain talented employees, including management.. Our success depends, in part, on our general ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain skilled employees. The loss of a significant number of our employees or the inability to attract, hire, develop, train and retain skilled personnel could have a serious negative effect on our business. Various locations may encounter competition with other manufacturers for skilled labor. Many of these manufacturers may be able to offer significantly greater compensation and benefits or more attractive lifestyle choices than we offer. In addition, many members of our management have significant industry experience that is valuable to our competitors. Our executive officers have non-solicitation agreements contractually prohibiting them from soliciting our customers and employees for a specified period of time after they leave the Company. If one or more members of our senior management team leave and cannot be replaced with a suitable candidate quickly, we could experience difficulty in managing our business properly, which could negatively impact our consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows.. Catastrophic events may damage or destroy our factories, distribution centers or other facilities, which may disrupt our business.. Natural disasters, conflicts, wars, terrorist attacks, fires or other catastrophic events could cause damage or disruption to our factories, distribution centers or other facilities, which may adversely affect our ability to manage logistics, cause delays in the delivery of products and services to our customers, and create inefficiencies in our supply chain. An event of this nature could also prevent us from maintaining ongoing operations and from performing critical business functions. While we maintain backup systems and operate out of multiple facilities to reduce the potentially adverse effect of these types of events, a catastrophic event that results in the destruction of any of our major factories, distribution centers or other facilities could affect our ability to conduct normal business operations, which could negatively impact our consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows.. There are risks associated with operations outside the United States.. Net sales from our operations in geographic regions outside the United States accounted for approximately 10% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017. As a result, we are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including the impact of economic and political instability of those countries in which we operate. Our operations outside of the United States are primarily in Poland and Mexico. Our business in Poland, which primarily serves the European market, has experienced a decline in profitability due to adverse economic conditions in Europe since the global financial crisis, which has affected the demand for print and related services in Europe. Security disruptions within the regions in Mexico in which we operate may interfere with operations, which could negatively impact our supply chain.. 14. We are also subject to risks that could materially affect our operations and operating results with respect to potential changes in United States government trade policy and legislation, including changes to tax laws, withdrawal from or modification of certain international trade agreements, including the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\"), the imposition of additional tariffs or other restrictions on trade on goods produced outside the United States for import into the United States and any changes in diplomatic relations with countries in which we operate or do business and compliance with applicable anti-corruption and sanctions laws and regulations.. We are exposed to risks related to potential adverse changes in currency exchange rates.. We are exposed to market risks resulting from changes in the currency exchange rates of the currencies in the countries in which we do business. Although operating in local currencies may limit the impact of currency rate fluctuations on the operating results of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, fluctuations in such rates may affect the translation of these results into our consolidated financial statements. To the extent borrowings, sales, purchases, net sales and expenses or other transactions are not in the applicable local currency, we may enter into foreign currency spot and forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. Management cannot be sure, however, that our efforts at hedging will be successful, and such efforts could, in certain circumstances, lead to losses.. The trend of increasing costs to provide health care and other benefits to our employees may continue.. We provide health care and other benefits to our employees. For many years, costs for health care have increased more rapidly than general inflation in the U.S. economy. If this trend in health care costs continues, our cost to provide such benefits could increase, adversely impacting our profitability. Changes to health care regulations in the U.S. may also increase our cost of providing such benefits. The full effect that a full or partial repeal of the Affordable Care Act or changes to other healthcare laws and regulations would have on our business remains unclear at this time, and could negatively impact our consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows.. Changes in market conditions, changes in discount rates, or lower returns on assets may increase required pension plan contributions in future periods.. The funded status of our pension plans is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets and the level of certain interest rates. As experienced in prior years, declines in the market value of the securities held by the plans coupled with historically low interest rates have substantially reduced, and in the future could further reduce, the funded status of the plans. These reductions may increase the level of expected required pension plan contributions in future years. Various conditions may lead to changes in the discount rates used to value the year-end benefit obligations of the plans, which could partially mitigate, or worsen, the effects of lower asset returns. If adverse conditions were to continue for an extended period of time, our costs and required cash contributions associated with pension plans may substantially increase in future periods.. A decline in our expected profitability or the expected profitability of our individual reporting units could result in the impairment of assets, including goodwill, other long-lived assets and deferred tax assets.. We hold goodwill, other long-lived assets and deferred tax assets on our balance sheet. A decline in expected profitability, particularly if there is a decline in the global economy, could call into question the recoverability of our related goodwill, other long-lived tangible and intangible assets or deferred tax assets and require the write-down or write-off of these assets or, in the case of deferred tax assets, recognition of a valuation allowance through a charge to income. Such an occurrence has had and could continue to have a negative impact on our consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows.. Changes in postal rates, regulations and delivery systems may adversely impact demand for our products and services.. Postal costs are a significant component of many of our customer's cost structure. Postal rate changes and USPS regulations that result in higher overall costs can influence the volume that these clients will be willing to print and ultimately send through the USPS.. 15. Current federal law limits postal rate increases (outside of an \"exigent circumstance\") to the increase in the Consumer Price Index. This cap works to ensure funding stability and predictability for mailers.  Under this current federal law, the USPS implemented a rate adjustment in early 2018 affecting all market dominant classes (periodicals, standard mail, first class mail, package services and special services), which was based on an average inflation-based rate increase for each class of mail.. Federal law requires the Postal Regulatory Commission (\"PRC\") to conduct a periodic review of the overall rate-making structure for the USPS. The PRC has issued a proposal to increase inflation-based pricing to include an additional 2%  -  5% per year. The proposal is under a comment period that is expected to last until the end of spring. The PRC may move forward with their current proposal or make modifications. Until the PRC's final determination, mailers have an uncertain future relative to budgeting for postal expenses.. The result of such determination may be reduced demand for printed products, co-mail and freight services as our customers may move more aggressively into other delivery methods such as the many digital and mobile options now available to consumers, which may have an adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to environmental regulation and environmental compliance expenditures, which could increase our costs and subject us to liabilities.. The conduct of our businesses is subject to various environmental laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local government agencies in the United States, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which we operate. These laws and regulations and interpretations thereof may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs and liabilities.. Various laws and regulations addressing climate change are being considered at the federal and state levels. Proposals under consideration include limitations on the amount of greenhouse gas that can be emitted.  Such proposals may have a negative impact on our consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows if capital spend or increased resources are required for compliance.. The competitiveness, success and growth of our business may depend on our ability to refurbish or replace our infrastructure, which could result in an increase in our capital expenditures and such capital expenditures could be substantial. We may be required to invest more in capital expenditures than we have done historically.. Capital expenditures, such as software upgrades or machinery replacements, may be necessary from time to time to preserve the competitiveness, success and growth of our business. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and is expected to remain competitive. We may be required to invest amounts in capital expenditures that exceeded our recent spending levels to replace worn out or obsolete machinery or otherwise remain competitive. If cash from operations is insufficient to provide for needed levels of capital expenditures and we are unable to obtain funds for such purposes elsewhere, we may be unable to make necessary upgrades or repairs to our software and facilities. An increase in capital expenditures could affect our ability to compete effectively and could have a negative impact on our consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows.. The failure to adapt to technological changes to address the changing demands of customers or the failure to implement new required processes or procedures in connection with the expansion of our products and services into new areas may adversely impact our business.. Many of the end markets in which our customers compete are experiencing changes due to technological progress and changes in consumer preferences. In order to remain competitive, we will need to continue to adapt to future changes in technology, enhance our existing offerings and introduce new offerings to address the changing demands of customers. If we are unable to continue to exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors or adapt to new distribution methods, our business may be adversely affected.. 16. Technological developments, changing demands of customers and the expansion of our products and services into new areas may require additional investment in new equipment and technologies, as well as the implementation of additional necessary or required compliance procedures and processes to which we are not currently subject. The development of such solutions may be costly and there is no assurance that these solutions will be accepted by customers. Furthermore, our compliance with new procedures and processes may increase our costs and, in the event we are unable to comply, may reduce our customers' willingness to work with us. If we are unable to adapt to technological changes on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost, or if we cannot comply with these necessary or required procedures or processes, customers' demand for our products and services may be adversely affected.. Our services depend on the reliability of computer systems maintained by us and our vendors and the ability to implement and maintain information technology and security measures to protect against security breaches and data leakage.. We depend on our information technology and data processing systems to operate our business, and a significant malfunction or disruption in the operation of our systems, or a security breach or a data leak that compromises the confidential and sensitive information of ours and of our customers stored in those systems, could disrupt our business, harm our reputation with customers and adversely impact our ability to compete. These systems include systems that we own and operate, as well as those systems of our vendors.. Our systems are integral to the operation of our business, because they allow us to share information that may be confidential in nature to our customers across our offices worldwide, which allows us to increase global reach for our customers, or they allow us to offer products that are dependent upon access to the systems. Such systems are susceptible to malfunctions and interruptions due to equipment damage, power outages and a range of other hardware, software and network problems. Those systems are also susceptible to cybercrime, or threats of intentional disruption, which are increasing in terms of sophistication and frequency. Our systems are also susceptible to breaches due to intentional employee misconduct. For any of these reasons, we may experience systems malfunctions or interruptions or leakage of confidential information. A significant or large-scale malfunction or interruption of any one of our computer or data processing systems, or the leakage of confidential information due to a malfunction or breach of our systems or employee misconduct, could adversely affect our ability to manage and keep our operations running efficiently, and damage our reputation if we are unable to track transactions, deliver products and safeguard our customers' confidential information. A malfunction that results in a wider or sustained disruption to our business could negatively impact our consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows.. In addition, we may from time to time acquire companies or businesses that do not have cybersecurity practices and procedures consistent with ours, and we may need to invest in bringing those businesses onto our existing systems or updating them to comply with ours.  Such systems may be more vulnerable to attack or malfunction than our systems until such time as we are able to integrate the business.. We have incurred substantial indebtedness and the degree to which we are currently leveraged may materially and adversely affect our business and consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows.. We have $822 million of indebtedness as of December 31, 2017. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the debt incurred in connection with the separation, as well as any future debt that we may incur, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We may not generate sufficient funds to service our debt and meet our business needs, such as funding working capital or the expansion of our operations. If we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due we may be forced to take disadvantageous actions, including facility closures, staff reductions, reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes, selling assets or dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, and restricting future capital return to stockholders. In addition, our ability to withstand competitive pressures and to react to changes in the print and related services industry could be impaired. The lenders who hold our debt could also accelerate amounts due in the event that we default, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of the maturity of our other debt.. In addition, our leverage could put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be less leveraged.  These competitors could have greater financial flexibility to pursue strategic acquisitions and secure additional financing for their operations. Our leverage could also impede our ability to withstand downturns in our industry or the economy in general.. 17. The agreements and instruments that govern our debt impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility.. The Credit Agreement that governs our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and the indenture that governs the Senior Secured Notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to:. •  incur additional debt;. •  pay dividends, make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our capital stock;. •  prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt;. •  make loans and investments;. •  sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets;. •  incur or permit to exist certain liens;. •  enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates;. •  enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and. •  consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets.. These covenants can have the effect of limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the markets in which we compete. In addition, the Credit Agreement that governs our Senior Secured Credit Facilities requires us to comply with certain financial maintenance covenants. Operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our being unable to comply with the financial covenants contained in our Term Loan Facility and indenture. If we violate covenants under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and indenture and are unable to obtain a waiver from our lenders, our debt under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and indenture would be in default and could be accelerated by our lenders. Because of cross-default provisions in the agreements and instruments governing our debt, a default under one agreement or instrument could result in a default under, and the acceleration of, our other debt.. If our debt is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If our debt is in default for any reason, our business and consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the notes and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions.. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt.. Despite our substantial amount of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt, in the future. Although the indenture governing our Senior Notes and the Credit Agreement governing the Senior Secured Credit Facilities restrict the incurrence of additional debt, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. Also, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. In addition, as of December 31, 2017, we had $272 million available for additional borrowing under our Revolving Facility. The more indebtedness we incur, the further exposed we become to the risks associated with substantial leverage described above.. The ongoing effects of the Tax Act and the refinement of provisional estimates could make our results difficult to predict.. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate in the future as a result of the Tax Act, which was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act introduces significant changes to U.S. income tax law that will have a meaningful impact on our provision for income taxes. Accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act requires significant judgments and estimates in the interpretation and calculations of the provisions of the Tax Act.. Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. The U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") and other standard-setting bodies may issue guidance on how the provisions of the Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. As we collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret the Tax Act and any additional guidance issued by the IRS or other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts that could materially affect our financial position and results of operations as well as our effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made.. 18. Risks Relating to our Recent Separation from RRD. The separation from RRD could result in significant liability to LSC Communications.. The separation from RRD is intended to qualify for tax-free treatment to RRD and its stockholders under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the \"Code\").  Completion of the spin-off was conditioned upon, among other things, the receipt of a private letter ruling from the IRS regarding certain issues relating to the tax-free treatment of the RRD Transactions. Although the IRS private letter ruling is generally binding on the IRS, the continuing validity of such ruling is subject to the accuracy of factual representations and assumptions made in the ruling. Completion of the spin-off was also conditioned upon RRD's receipt of a tax opinion from Sullivan & Cromwell LLP regarding certain aspects of the spin-off not covered by the IRS private letter ruling. The opinion was based upon various factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings made by RRD, LSC Communications and Donnelley Financial. If any of the factual representations or assumptions in the IRS private letter ruling or tax opinion are untrue or incomplete in any material respect, an undertaking is not complied with, or the facts upon which the IRS private letter ruling or tax opinion are based are materially different from the actual facts relating to the RRD transactions, the opinion or IRS private letter ruling may not be valid. Moreover, opinions of a tax advisor are not binding on the IRS. As a result, the conclusions expressed in the opinion of a tax advisor could be successfully challenged by the IRS.. If the separation is determined to be taxable, RRD and its stockholders could incur significant tax liabilities, and under the tax matters agreement and the letter agreement, LSC Communications may be required to indemnify RRD for any liabilities incurred by RRD if the liabilities are caused by any action or inaction undertaken by LSC Communications following the separation.  For additional detail, refer to Tax Disaffiliation Agreement, filed as an exhibit to this annual report on Form 10-K.. The tax rules applicable to the separation may restrict us from engaging in certain corporate transactions or from raising equity capital beyond certain thresholds for a period of time after the separation.. To preserve the tax-free treatment of the separation from RRD under the Tax Disaffiliation Agreement, for the two-year period following the separation, we are subject to restrictions with respect to:. •  taking any action that would result in our ceasing to be engaged in the active conduct of our business, with the result that we are not engaged in the active conduct of a trade or business within the meaning of certain provisions of the Code;. •  redeeming or otherwise repurchasing any of our outstanding stock, other than through certain stock purchases of widely held stock on the open market;. •  amending our Certificate of Incorporation (or other organizational documents) that would affect the relative voting rights of separate classes of our capital stock or would convert one class of our capital stock into another class of our capital stock;. •  liquidating or partially liquidating;. •  merging with any other corporation (other than in a transaction that does not affect the relative shareholding of our stockholders), selling or otherwise disposing of (other than in the ordinary course of business) our assets, or taking any other action or actions if such merger, sale, other disposition or other action or actions in the aggregate would have the effect that one or more persons acquire (or have the right to acquire), directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions, assets representing one-half or more our asset value;. •  taking any other action or actions that in the aggregate would have the effect that one or more persons acquire (or have the right to acquire), directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions, capital stock of ours possessing (i) at least 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock or equity interests of ours entitled to vote, or (ii) at least 50% of the total value of shares of all classes of stock or of the total value of all equity interests of ours, other than an acquisition of our shares as part of the separation solely by reason of holding RRD common stock (but not including such an acquisition if such RRD common stock, before such acquisition, was itself acquired as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, shares of our stock meeting the voting and value threshold tests listed previously in this bullet); and. •  taking any action that (or failing to take any action the omission of which) would be inconsistent with the separation qualifying as, or that would preclude the separation from qualifying as, a transaction that is generally tax-free to RRD and the holders of RRD common stock for U.S. federal income tax purposes.. 19. These restrictions may limit our ability during such period to pursue strategic transactions of a certain magnitude that involve the issuance or acquisition of our stock or engage in new businesses or other transactions that might increase the value of our business. These restrictions may also limit our ability to raise significant amounts of cash through the issuance of stock, especially if our stock price were to suffer substantial declines, or through the sale of certain of our assets. For more information, refer to Tax Disaffiliation Agreement, filed as an exhibit to this annual report on Form 10-K.. LSC Communications' historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that it would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of its future results.. The historical information about LSC Communications prior to October 1, 2016 included in this annual report on Form 10-K refers to LSC Communications business as operated by and integrated with RRD. LSC Communications' historical financial information for such periods was derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of RRD. Accordingly, such historical financial information does not necessarily reflect the consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows that LSC Communications would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company during the periods presented or those that LSC  Communications will achieve in the future primarily as a result of the following factors:. •  Prior to the separation, LSC Communications' business was operated by RRD as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. RRD or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for LSC Communications, such as tax, treasury, finance, audit, risk management, legal, information technology, human resources, stockholder relations, compliance, shared services, insurance, employee benefits and compensation. After the separation, RRD has continued to provide some of these functions to LSC Communications, as described in Transition Services Agreement, filed as an exhibit to this annual report on Form 10-K. LSC Communications' historical financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from RRD for such functions. These allocations may not be indicative of the actual expenses LSC Communications would have incurred had it operated as an independent, publicly traded company in the periods presented. LSC Communications has made significant investments to replicate or outsource from other providers certain facilities, systems, infrastructure, and personnel to which LSC Communications no longer has access as a result of the separation. These initiatives to develop LSC Communications' independent ability to operate without access to RRD's existing operational and administrative infrastructure have been costly and will continue to be costly to implement in the future. LSC Communications may not be able to operate its business efficiently or at comparable costs, and its profitability may decline.. •  Prior to the separation, LSC Communications' business was integrated with the other businesses of RRD. LSC was able to utilize RRD's size and purchasing power in procuring various goods and services and shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. Although LSC Communications has entered into transition agreements with RRD, these arrangements may not fully capture the benefits LSC enjoyed as a result of being integrated with RRD and may result in LSC Communications paying higher charges than in the past for these services. As a separate, independent company, LSC may be unable to obtain goods and services at the prices and terms obtained prior to the separation, which could decrease LSC Communications' overall profitability. As a separate, independent company, LSC may also not be as successful in negotiating favorable tax treatments and credits with governmental entities. This could have a material adverse effect on LSC Communications' consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows for periods after the separation.. •  Generally, prior to the separation, LSC Communications' working capital requirements and capital for its general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, R&D and capital expenditures, were satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of RRD. As a separate independent company, LSC Communications may need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements.. •  The cost of capital for LSC Communications' business is higher than RRD's cost of capital prior to the separation.. Other significant changes have occurred and may continue to occur in LSC Communications' cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of operating as a company separate from RRD. For additional information about the past financial performance of LSC Communications' business and the basis of presentation of the historical consolidated and combined financial statements of LSC Communications' business, refer to the discussion in Item 7, Item 8 and the notes to consolidated and combined financial statements in Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K.. 20. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the separation.. We believe that our separation from RRD has allowed, and will continue to allow, among other benefits, us to focus on our distinct strategic priorities; afford us direct access to the capital markets and facilitate our ability to capitalize on growth opportunities and effect future acquisitions utilizing our common stock; facilitate incentive compensation arrangements for our employees more directly tied to the performance of our business; and enable us to concentrate our financial resources solely on our own operations. However, we may be unable to achieve some or all of these benefits. For example, in order to prepare ourselves for the separation, we undertook a series of strategic, structural and process realignment and restructuring actions within our operations. These actions may not provide the benefits we currently expect, and could lead to disruption of our operations, loss of, or inability to recruit, key personnel needed to operate and grow our businesses after the separation, weakening of our internal standards, controls or procedures and impairment of our key customer and supplier relationships. If we fail to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as an independent company, or do not achieve them in the time we expect, our business and consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. RRD or Donnelley Financial may not satisfy their respective obligations under the Transition Services Agreements and other agreements that were entered into as part of the separation, or we may not have necessary systems and services in place when the transition services terms expire.. In connection with the separation, we entered into Transition Services Agreements with both RRD and Donnelley Financial. Refer to the exhibits filed to this annual report on Form 10-K related to the agreements with RRD and Donnelley Financial, respectively. These Transition Services Agreements will provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time after the separation. We will rely on RRD and Donnelley Financial to satisfy their respective performance and payment obligations under these Transition Services Agreements. If RRD or Donnelley Financial is unable to satisfy its respective obligations, including indemnification obligations, under these Transition Services Agreements, we could incur operational difficulties. The other agreements relating to the separation provide for indemnification in certain circumstances and commercial agreements establish ongoing commercial arrangements. There can be no guarantee that RRD or Donnelley Financial, as the case may be, will satisfy any obligations owed to us under such agreements, including any indemnification obligations.. Further, if we do not have our own systems and services in place, or if we do not have agreements in place with other providers of these services when the term of a particular transition service terminates, we may not be able to operate our business effectively, which could negatively impact our consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows.  We have implemented or are in the process of creating our own, or engaging third parties to provide, systems and services to replace many of the systems and services RRD and Donnelley Financial have provided. We may not be successful in effectively or efficiently implementing these systems and services or in transitioning data from RRD's or Donnelley Financial's systems to our systems, as the case may be, which could disrupt our business and have a negative impact on our consolidated and combined statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows. These systems and services may also be more expensive or less efficient than the systems and services RRD and Donnelley Financial are providing during the transition period.. RRD has a significant understanding of our business and may be uniquely positioned to compete against us.. Prior to the separation, we operated as part of RRD, and many of its current officers, directors and employees have participated in the development and execution of our corporate strategy and the management of our day-to-day operations. RRD has significant knowledge of our products, operations, strengths, weaknesses and strategies. This knowledge includes the cost of production, average market pricing and margin, compensation of critical employees, key or critical accounts knowledge, intellectual property and proprietary processes. Because of RRD's competitive insight into our operations, specifically the printing of books, competition from RRD, which could occur in the future, may negatively impact our consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets and cash flows.. 21. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock and the Securities Market. We cannot assure you that we will continue to pay dividends on our common stock, and our indebtedness could limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock.. The timing, declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends to LSC Communications stockholders will fall within the discretion of our Board of Directors. Our Board's decisions regarding the payment of future dividends will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, future prospects, earnings, capital requirements and debt service obligations, as well as legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other factors that our Board deems relevant. In addition, the terms of the agreements governing our debt or debt that we may incur in the future may continue to limit or prohibit the payment of dividends.  While our Board declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.26 per common share on January 18, 2018 payable on March 2, 2018, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay a dividend.. Delaware law and anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could make it more difficult to acquire us and limit your ability to sell your shares at a premium.. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that is opposed by our board of directors. These provisions include:. •  the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series with such rights, obligations and preferences as the board of directors may determine, without further vote or action by our stockholders;. •  the initial classification of our board of directors, which effectively prevents stockholders from electing a majority of the directors at any one annual meeting of stockholders until the second annual meeting of stockholders after the separation;. •  advanced notice procedures for stockholders to nominate candidates for election to the board of directors and for stockholders to submit proposals for consideration at a meeting of stockholders;. •  inability of stockholders to act by written consent;. •  restrictions on the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; and. •  the absence of cumulative voting rights for our stockholders.. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits \"business combinations\" between a publicly-held Delaware corporation and an \"interested stockholder,\" which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation's voting stock for a three-year period following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder. This statute, as well as the provisions in our organizational documents, could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing certain potential acquisitions or a change in control of us.. Stockholders' percentage ownership in LSC Communications may be diluted in the future.. Stockholders' percentage ownership in LSC Communications may be diluted in the future because of equity securities we issue, either as consideration for acquisitions, in connection with capital raises or for equity awards that we expect to grant to our directors, officers and employees. We may issue equity securities as consideration in an acquisition. Further, to the extent that LSC Communications raises additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, existing ownership interests will be diluted, and the terms of such financings may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of existing stockholders. Any such transaction will dilute stockholders' ownership in LSC Communications."
