[1] "Item 1A.  RISK FACTORS. This section discusses risk factors that may affect our business, operations, and financial condition. If any of these risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that we have not yet identified or that we currently think are not material, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected and the value of our securities could decline. In addition, these risk factors contain \"forward - looking statements\" as discussed above under the heading \"Cautionary Statement.\" The following information should be read in conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in this Annual Report on Form 10 - K.. A Failure to Maintain or Increase our Dividend Could Reduce the Market Price of Our Stock. The ability to maintain or raise our common dividend is dependent, to a large part, on growth of funds available for distribution. This growth in turn depends upon increased revenues from additional investments and loans, rental increases and mortgage rate increases.. At Times, We May Have Limited Access to Capital Which Will Slow Our Growth.  A REIT is required to make dividend distributions and retains little cash flow for growth. As a result, growth for a REIT is generally through the steady investment of new capital in real estate assets. There may be times when we will have limited access to capital from the equity and/or debt markets. During such periods, virtually all of our available capital would be required to meet existing commitments and to reduce existing debt. We may not be able, during such periods, to obtain additional equity and/or debt capital or dispose of assets on favorable terms, if at all, at the time we require additional capital to acquire health care properties on a competitive basis or meet our obligations. At December 31, 2017, we had $5.2 million of cash on hand, $503.5 million available under our unsecured revolving line of credit and $63.7 million available under our shelf agreement with Prudential Investment Management, Inc. (or Prudential).. 23. Table of Contents. Also, we also have the potential ability to access the capital markets through the issuance of $185.2 million of common stock under our equity distribution agreement and an indeterminate amount through the issuance of debt and/or equity securities under an automatic shelf registration statement.. As a result, we currently believe our liquidity and various sources of available capital are sufficient to fund operations and development commitments, meet debt service obligations (both principal and interest), make dividend distributions and finance some future investments should we determine such future investments are financially feasible.. Income and Returns from Health Care Facilities Can be Volatile.  The possibility that the health care properties in which we invest will not generate income sufficient to meet operating expenses, will generate income and capital appreciation, if any, at rates lower than those anticipated or will yield returns lower than those available through investments in comparable real estate or other investments are additional risks of investing in health care related real estate. Income from properties and yields from investments in such properties may be affected by many factors, including changes in governmental regulation (such as zoning laws and government payment), general or local economic conditions (such as fluctuations in interest rates and employment conditions), the available local supply of and demand for improved real estate, a reduction in rental income as the result of an inability to maintain occupancy levels, natural disasters (such as hurricanes, earthquakes and floods) or similar factors.. We Depend on Lease Income and Mortgage Payments from Real Property.  Approximately 97.8% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017, was derived from lease income and mortgage payments from real property. Our revenue would be adversely affected if a significant number of our borrowers or lessees were unable to meet their obligations to us or if we were unable to lease our properties or make mortgage loans on economically favorable terms. There can be no assurance that any lessee will exercise its option to renew its lease upon the expiration of the initial term. There can be no assurance that if such failure to renew were to occur, or if we did not re - lease a property to a current lessee, we could lease the property to others on favorable terms, at the same rent as the current rent, or on a timely basis.. We Rely on our Operators.  Substantially all of our revenues and sources of cash flows from operations are derived from operating lease rentals and interest earned on outstanding loans receivable. Our investments in owned properties and mortgage loans represent our primary source of liquidity to fund distributions and are dependent upon the performance of the operators on their lease and loan obligations and the rates earned thereon. Our financial position and ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by financial difficulties experienced by any of our lessees or borrowers, including bankruptcies, inability to emerge from bankruptcy, insolvency or general downturn in business of any such operator, or in the event any such operator does not renew and/or extend its relationship with us or our borrowers when it expires.. Our Borrowers and Lessees Face Competition in the Health Care Industry. The long-term care industry is highly competitive and we expect that it may become more competitive in the future. Our borrowers and lessees are competing with numerous other companies providing similar long-term care services or alternatives such as home health agencies, hospices, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. There can be no assurance that our borrowers and lessees will not encounter increased competition in the future which could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses and therefore affect their ability to make their debt or lease payments to us.. The Health Care Industry is Heavily Regulated by the Government. Our borrowers and lessees who operate health care facilities are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governments. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent and substantial changes resulting from legislation, adoption of rules and regulations, and administrative and judicial interpretations of existing law. These changes may have a dramatic effect on the definition of permissible or impermissible activities, the relative costs associated with doing business and the amount of reimbursement by both government and other third-party payors. These changes may be applied retroactively. The ultimate timing or effect of these changes cannot be predicted. The failure of any borrower of funds from us or lessee of any of our properties to comply with such laws, requirements and regulations could affect its ability to operate its facility or facilities and could adversely affect such lessee's or borrower's ability to make lease or debt payments to us.. For instance, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended (the \"Affordable Care Act\") is designed to expand access to affordable health insurance, contain health care costs, and enact health policy reforms. Some provisions,. 24. Table of Contents. particularly those intended to reduce federal health care spending, could have a negative impact on our lessees and borrowers. Among other things, the Affordable Care Act: reduced Medicare skilled nursing facility reimbursement by a so-called \"productivity adjustment\" based on economy-wide productivity gains beginning in fiscal year 2012; required the development of a value-based purchasing program for Medicare skilled nursing facility services; established a national voluntary pilot program to bundle Medicare payments for hospital and post-acute services that could lead to changes in the delivery of post-acute services; and provided incentives to state Medicaid programs to promote community-based care as an alternative to institutional long-term care services.. In addition, the Affordable Care Act impacts both us and our lessees and borrowers as employers, including requirements related to the health insurance we offer to our respective employees. Many aspects of the Affordable Care Act have been implemented through regulations and subregulatory guidance.  President Trump and some members of Congress have called for repeal of the Affordable Care Act and replacement with alternative reforms.  In December 2017, the President signed into law a tax reform bill that repeals the Affordable Care Act's penalty for individuals who fail to maintain health coverage meeting certain minimum standards.  Additional revisions to the Affordable Care Act could be made in the future, although the details and timing of any such actions are unknown at this time.  There can be no assurance that implementation of the Affordable Care Act or any subsequent modifications will not adversely impact the operations, cash flows or financial condition of our lessees and borrowers, which subsequently could materially adversely impact our revenue and operations.. CMS also adopted regulations that impose new standards for long-term care facilities participating in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, including requirements for improving quality of care and patient safety, nursing facility staffing, care planning, infection control, residents' rights, compliance and ethics programs, and several other areas. These requirements are being implemented on a rolling basis; many became effective November 2017, and others are scheduled to become effective in November 2019.  While the rule also banned pre-dispute arbitration agreements, that provision was stayed due to litigation challenging the requirement.  On June 8, 2017, CMS published a proposed rule that would eliminate the prohibition on pre-dispute binding arbitration agreements and otherwise modify these requirements.. Federal and State Health Care Cost Containment Measures Including Reductions in Reimbursement From Third-Party Payors Such as Medicare and Medicaid Could Adversely Affect Us and The Ability of Our Operators to Make Payments to Us. The ability of our borrowers and lessees to generate revenue and profit determines the underlying value of that property to us. Revenues of our borrowers and skilled nursing center lessees are generally derived from payments for patient care. Sources of such payments include the federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs, private insurance carriers, health care service plans, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider arrangements, self-insured employers, as well as the patients themselves.. The health care industry continues to face increased government and private payor pressure on health care providers to control costs. Certain of these initiatives have had the result of limiting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement for nursing facility services. Federal legislative and regulatory policies have been adopted and may continue to be proposed that would reduce Medicare and/or Medicaid payments to nursing facilities.  Moreover, state budget pressures continue to result in adoption of Medicaid provider payment reductions in some states.  Increasingly state Medicaid programs are providing coverage through managed care programs under contracts with private health plans, which is intended to decrease state Medicaid costs.  The Trump Administration and Congress are also considering revising federal payments to state Medicaid programs to establish block grants or impose per capita limits on federal Medicaid payments to states. In light of continuing federal and state Medicaid program reforms, budget cuts, and regulatory initiatives, no assurance can be given that the implementation of such regulations and reforms will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our lessees and/or borrowers which, in turn, could affect their ability to meet their contractual obligations to us.. Congress also has given states greater flexibility to expand access to home and community based services as an alternative to nursing facility services. These provisions could further increase state funding for home and community based services, while prompting states to cut funding for nursing facilities and homes for persons with disabilities.. The Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 requires the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services to develop a skilled nursing facility \"value-based purchasing program,\" which will tie Medicare payments to skilled nursing facilities to their performance on certain new readmissions measures, applicable to services furnished. 25. Table of Contents. beginning October 1, 2018.  Furthermore, the Improving Medicare Post-Acute Care Transformation Act of 2014 requires the collection of standardized post-acute care assessment data, which eventually could be used as the basis for developing changes to Medicare post-acute care reimbursement policy.  On April 27, 2017, CMS released an advance notice of proposed rulemaking or pre-rule, to request comments on the possibility of replacing the skilled nursing facility prospective payment system's existing case-mix classification model, the Resource Utilization Groups, Version 4 (RUG-IV), with a new model, the Resident Classification System, Version I (RCS-I). Among other features of this proposal, CMS anticipates that this model would more closely link facility payment to objective resident characteristics, rather than minutes of therapy provided. CMS intends to propose case-mix refinements in the fiscal year 2019 skilled nursing facility prospective payment system proposed rule; additional details regarding the potential reforms are expected to be available at that time.   The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 sets the annual skilled nursing facility prospective payment system update for fiscal year 2018 at 1%.. Under the terms of the Budget Control Act of 2011, as amended, President Obama issued a sequestration order on March 1, 2013 that mandates a 2% cut to Medicare payments to providers and health plans.  The cuts generally apply to Medicare fee-for-service claims with dates-of-service or dates-of-discharge on or after April 1, 2013.  As further amended by subsequent legislation, the Medicare sequestration cuts are currently scheduled to be applied through fiscal year 2025, although Congress and the Administration could enact legislation at any time that modifies sequestration.  CMS also has implemented a variety of Medicare bundled payment programs that seek to promote greater care coordination and more efficient use of resources.  Certain of these models have impacted post-acute care, including nursing facility services.  Congress and state legislatures can be expected to continue to review and assess alternative health care delivery systems and payment methodologies along with other cost-control measures.. We Could Incur More Debt.  We operate with a policy of incurring debt when, in the opinion of our Board of Directors, it is advisable. We may incur additional debt by borrowing under our unsecured revolving line of credit or the uncommitted private shelf agreement, mortgaging properties we own and/or issuing debt securities in a public offering or in a private transaction. Accordingly, we could become more highly leveraged. The degree of leverage could have important consequences to stockholders, including affecting our ability to obtain, in the future, additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes and making us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally.. We Could Fail to Collect Amounts Due Under Our Straight - line Rent Receivable Asset.  U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (or GAAP) requires us to calculate the total rent we will receive as a fixed amount over the life of the lease and recognize that revenue evenly over that life. In a situation where a lease calls for fixed rental increases during the life of the lease, rental income recorded in the early years of a lease is higher than the actual cash rent received which creates an asset on the consolidated balance sheet called straight - line rent receivable. At some point during the lease, depending on the rent levels and terms, this reverses and the cash rent payments received during the later years of the lease are higher than the rental income recognized which reduces the straight - line rent receivable balance to zero by the end of the lease. We periodically assess the collectability of the straight - line rent receivable. If during our assessment we determined that we were unlikely to collect a portion or the entire straight - line rent receivable asset, we may provide a reserve against the previously recognized straight - line rent receivable asset for a portion or up to its full value that we estimate may not be recoverable.. Our Assets May be Subject to Impairment Charges.  We periodically but not less than quarterly evaluate our real estate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on factors such as market conditions, operator performance and legal structure. If we determine that an impairment has occurred, we would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and a non - cash impact on funds from operations in the period in which the write - off occurs.. A Failure to Reinvest Cash Available to Us Could Adversely Affect Our Future Revenues and Our Ability to Increase Dividends to Stockholders; There is Considerable Competition in Our Market for Attractive Investments.  From time to time, we will have cash available from (1) proceeds of sales of shares of securities, (2) proceeds from new debt issuances, (3) principal payments on our mortgages and other investments, (4) sale of properties, and (5) funds from operations. We may reinvest this cash in health care investments and in accordance with our investment policies, repay. 26. Table of Contents. outstanding debt or invest in qualified short-term or long-term investments. We compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. The competition for attractive investments negatively affects our ability to make timely investments on acceptable terms. Delays in acquiring properties or making loans will negatively impact revenues and perhaps our ability to increase distributions to our stockholders.. Our Failure to Qualify as a REIT Would Have Serious Adverse Consequences to Our Stockholders.  We intend to operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code. We believe that we have been organized and have operated in a manner which would allow us to qualify as a REIT under the Code beginning with our taxable year ended December 31, 1992. However, it is possible that we have been organized or have operated in a manner which would not allow us to qualify as a REIT, or that our future operations could cause us to fail to qualify. Qualification as a REIT requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must pay dividends to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains). Legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification.. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be subject to federal and state income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax for taxable years ending prior to January 1, 2018) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we lost qualification. If we lose our REIT status, our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. In addition, we would no longer be required to make distributions to stockholders.. Recent Changes to the U.S. Tax Laws Could Have a Significant Negative Impact on the Overall Economy, Our Tenants, Our Investors, and Our Business. On December 22, 2017, H.R. 1, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"TCJA\") was signed into law making significant changes to the Code. Relevant changes include, but are not limited to the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta federal corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017,.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tan immediate 100% deduction of the cost of certain capital asset investments (generally excluding real estate assets), subject to a phase-down of the deduction percentage over time,.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestrictions to the deductibility of interest expense by businesses (generally, to 30% of the business' adjusted taxable income) except, among others, real property businesses electing out of such restriction; generally, we expect our business to qualify as such a real property business,.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe use of the less favorable alternative depreciation system to depreciate real property in the event a real property business elects to avoid the interest deduction restriction above,.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\telimination of the corporate alternative minimum tax,.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trestriction limiting the benefits of like-kind exchanges that defer capital gains for tax purposes to exchanges of real property; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timplementation of a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings.. While the changes in the TCJA generally appear to be favorable with respect to REITs, the extensive changes to non-REIT provisions in the Code may have unanticipated effects on us or our stockholders. Moreover, Congressional leaders have recognized that the process of adopting extensive tax legislation in a short amount of time without hearings and substantial time for review is likely to have led to drafting errors, issues needing clarification and unintended consequences that will have to be reviewed in subsequent tax legislation. At this point, it is not clear when Congress will address these issues or when the Internal Revenue Service will issue administrative guidance on the changes made in the TCJA.. 27. Table of Contents. As a result of the changes to U.S. federal tax laws implemented by the TCJA, our taxable income and the amount of distributions to our stockholders required in order to maintain our REIT status, and our relative tax advantage as a REIT, may significantly change. The long-term impact of the TCJA on the overall economy, government revenues, our tenants, us, and the real estate industry cannot be reliably predicted at this early stage of the new law's implementation. Furthermore, the TCJA may negatively impact certain of our tenants' operating results, financial condition, and future business plans. The TCJA may also result in reduced government revenues, and therefore reduced government spending, which may negatively impact some of our tenants that rely on government funding. There can be no assurance that the TCJA will not negatively impact our operating results, financial condition, and future business operations.. Provisions in Our Articles of Incorporation May Limit Ownership of Shares of Our Capital Stock.  In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of our stock may be beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year. To ensure qualification under this test, our Articles of Incorporation provide that, subject to exceptions, no person may beneficially own more than 9.8% of outstanding shares of any class or series of our stock, including our common stock. Our Board of Directors may exempt a person from the 9.8% ownership limit upon such conditions as the Board of Directors may direct. However, our Board of Directors may not grant an exemption from the 9.8% ownership limit if it would result in the termination of our status as a REIT. Shares of capital stock in excess of the 9.8% ownership limitation that lack an applicable exemption may lose rights to dividends and voting, and may be subject to redemption. As a result of the limitations on ownership set forth in our Articles of Incorporation, acquisition of any shares of capital stock that would result in our disqualification as a REIT may be limited or void. The 9.8% ownership limitation also may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of us, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price for holders of our capital stock.. Our Real Estate Investments are Relatively Illiquid.  Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, tend to limit our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. All of our properties are \"special purpose\" properties that cannot be readily converted to general residential, retail or office use. Health care facilities that participate in Medicare or Medicaid must meet extensive program requirements, including physical plant and operational requirements, which are revised from time to time. Such requirements may include a duty to admit Medicare and Medicaid patients, limiting the ability of the facility to increase its private pay census beyond certain limits. Medicare and Medicaid facilities are regularly inspected to determine compliance, and may be excluded from the programs - in some cases without a prior hearing - for failure to meet program requirements. Transfers of operations of nursing homes and other health care - related facilities are subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate. Thus, if the operation of any of our properties becomes unprofitable due to competition, age of improvements or other factors such that our lessee or borrower becomes unable to meet its obligations on the lease or mortgage loan, the liquidation value of the property may be substantially less than the net book value or the amount owing on any related mortgage loan, than would be the case if the property were readily adaptable to other uses. The receipt of liquidation proceeds or the replacement of an operator that has defaulted on its lease or loan could be delayed by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the property or the replacement of the operator with a new operator licensed to manage the facility. In addition, certain significant expenditures associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a reduction in income from the investment. Should such events occur, our income and cash flows from operations would be adversely affected.. Our Remedies May Be Limited When Mortgage Loans Default.  To the extent we invest in mortgage loans, such mortgage loans may or may not be recourse obligations of the borrower and generally will not be insured or guaranteed by governmental agencies or otherwise. In the event of a default under such obligations, we may have to foreclose on the property underlying the mortgage or protect our interest by acquiring title to a property and thereafter make substantial improvements or repairs in order to maximize the property's investment potential. Borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. If a borrower seeks bankruptcy protection, the Bankruptcy Court may impose an automatic stay that would preclude us from enforcing foreclosure or other remedies against the borrower. Declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage loan upon foreclosure.. 28. Table of Contents. We are Subject to Risks and Liabilities in Connection with Properties Owned Through Limited Liability Companies and Partnerships. We currently have an investment in a limited liability company and we may make additional investments through these ventures in the future. Partnership or limited liability company investments may involve risks such as the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour partners or co - members might become bankrupt (in which event we and any other remaining general partners or members would generally remain liable for the liabilities of the partnership or limited liability company);.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour partners or co - members might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour partners or co - members may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions, requests, policies or objectives, including our policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a REIT; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tagreements governing limited liability companies and partnerships often contain restrictions on the transfer of a member's or partner's interest or \"buy - sell\" or other provisions which may result in a purchase or sale of the interest at a disadvantageous time or on disadvantageous terms.. We will, however, generally seek to maintain sufficient control of our partnerships and limited liability companies to permit us to achieve our business objectives. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of available funds that we may invest in partnerships or limited liability companies. The occurrence of one or more of the events described above could have a direct and adverse impact on us.. Risks Associated with Property Development that Can Render a Project Less Profitable or Not Profitable, and, Under Certain Circumstances, Prevent Completion of Development Activities Undertaken.  Our business includes development of seniors housing and health care properties. Ground up development presents additional risk, including but not limited to the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources resulting in the loss of deposits or failure to recover expenses already incurred;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe development and construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates and higher materials, transportation, labor, leasing or other costs, which could make completion of the development project less profitable;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconstruction and/or permanent financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe project may not be completed on schedule, which can result in increases in construction costs and debt service expenses as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including natural disasters, labor conditions, material shortages, regulatory hurdles, civil unrest and acts of war; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\toccupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not meet expected levels and could be insufficient to make the property profitable.. These risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of development activities once undertaken, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition."                                                                                                                                                                                
