[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Investors in our securities should carefully consider all of the relevant factors disclosed by us, including the following factors that could affect our results of operations, financial condition or stock price.. Risks Related to Our Business. Changing technology and intense competition require us to continuously innovate while controlling product costs, and our failure to do so may result in decreased revenues and profitability.. The markets in which we operate are dynamic and complex, and our success depends upon our ability to deliver both our current product offerings and new products and technologies on time and at acceptable prices to our customers. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, substantial capital investment, changes in customer requirements, continued price pressures and a constantly evolving industry. Historically, these pricing pressures have led to a continued decline of average selling prices across our business. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and the accurate prediction of technological and market trends. The introduction of new products also requires significant investment to ramp up production capacity, for which benefit may not be realized if we are not successful in the production of such products or if customer demand does not develop as expected. Ramping of production capacity also entails risks of delays which can limit our ability to realize the full benefit of new product introductions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. We also cannot assure you that potential markets for our new products will materialize on the timelines we anticipate, or at all, or that our technology will meet our customers' specifications. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction, deployment and market acceptance of new and enhanced features and products that meet our customers' current and future needs.. The market for optical communications products in particular has matured over time and these products have increasingly become subject to commoditization. Both legacy competitors as well as new entrants, predominantly Asia-based competitors, have intensified market competition in recent years leading to pricing pressure. To preserve our revenues and product margin structures, we remain reliant on an integrated customer and market approach that anticipates end customer needs as Telecom and Datacom requirements evolve. We also must continue to develop more advanced, differentiated products that command a premium with customers, while conversely continuing to focus on streamlining product costs for established legacy products. If we fail to continue to develop enhanced or new products, or over time are unable to adjust our cost structure to continue to competitively price more mature products, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. Continued competition in our markets may lead to an accelerated reduction in our prices, revenues and market share.. The end markets for optical products have experienced significant industry consolidation during the past few years. As a result, the markets for optical subsystems and components are highly competitive. Our current competitors include a number of domestic and international public and private companies, many of which may have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources and brand name recognition than we have. These competitors include II-VI, Acacia Communications, Applied Optoelectronics, Coherent, Finisar, Foxconn Interconnect Technology, Fujitsu Optical Components, Furukawa Electric, InnoLight Technology, IPG Photonics, Neophotonics, Source Photonics, and Sumitomo Electric Industries. We may not be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors. Our competitors may continue to enter markets or gain or retain market share through introduction of new or improved products or with aggressive low pricing strategies that may impact the efficacy of our approach. Additionally, if significant competitors were to merge or consolidate, they may be able to offer a lower cost structure through economies of scale that we may be unable to match and which may intensify competition in the various markets. Increased competition could result in significant price erosion, reduced revenue, lower margins or loss of market share, any of which would significantly harm our business.. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our sales; and the majority of our customers do not have contractual purchase commitments.. We have consistently relied on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales and in certain of our markets, such as 3D sensing, this customer concentration is particularly acute. We expect that this customer concentration will continue in the future and we expect that our growth prospects will continue to be concentrated in a small number of customers. Many of our customers purchase products under purchase orders or under contracts that do not contain volume purchase commitments. Some customers provide us with their expected forecasts for our products several months in advance, but these customers may decrease, cancel or delay purchase orders already in place, including on short notice, and the impact of any such actions may be intensified given our dependence on a limited number of large customers.  In addition, changes in the business requirements, vendor selection, project prioritization, financial prospects, capital resources, and expenditures, or purchasing behavior (including product mix. 12. Table of Contents. purchased or timing of purchases) of our key customers, or any real or perceived quality issues related to the products that we sell to such customers, could significantly decrease our sales to such customers or could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. Further, we may be required to purchase raw materials, increase production capacity or make other changes to our business to accommodate certain large customers. If forecasted orders do not materialize, we may need to reduce investment in R&D activities, we may fail to optimize our manufacturing capacity, we may incur liabilities with our suppliers for reimbursement of capital expenditures, or we may have excess inventory. In addition, if we incur expenses in response to forecasted demand and do not have a corresponding increase in revenue, our profitability may suffer. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The manufacturing of our products may be adversely affected if our contract manufacturers and suppliers fail to meet our production requirements or if we are unable to manufacture certain products in our manufacturing facilities.. We rely on several independent contract manufacturers to supply us with certain products. For many products, a particular contract manufacturer may be the sole source of the finished-good products. We depend on these manufacturers to meet our production and capacity requirements and to provide quality products to our customers. Despite rigorous testing for quality, both by us and the contract manufacturers to whom we sell products, we may receive and ship defective products. We may incur significant costs to correct defective products which could result in the loss of future sales, indemnification costs or costs to replace or repair the defective products, litigation and damage to our reputation and customer relations. Defective products may also cause diversion of management attention from our business and product development efforts.. Additionally, the ability of our contract manufacturers to fulfill their obligations may be affected by natural disasters, changes in legal requirements, labor strikes and other labor unrest and economic, political or other forces that are beyond our control. For example, we recently experienced a labor strike at one of our contract manufacturers which threatened the contract manufacturer's ability to fulfill its product commitments to us and, in turn, our ability to fulfill our obligations to our customers.  Further, certain of our contract manufacturers are located in China, which exposes us to risks associated with Chinese laws and regulations, such as those related to import and export policies, tariffs, taxation and intellectual property. Chinese laws and regulations are subject to frequent change, and if our contract manufacturers are unable to obtain or retain the requisite legal permits or otherwise to comply with Chinese legal requirements, we may be forced to obtain products from other manufacturers or to make other operational changes, including transferring our manufacturing to another manufacturer or to our Thailand manufacturing facility. Any such developments could have a material impact on our ability to meet our customers' expectations and may materially impact our operating results. In 2018, the United States imposed tariffs on the import of certain products manufactured in China, and has proposed further tariffs, which could increase costs associated with the manufacture of our products in China and negatively impact our sales levels and profit margins.. In addition, some of our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers are not cancellable which may impact our earnings if customer forecasts driving these purchase commitments do not materialize and we are unable to sell the products to other customers. Alternatively, our contract manufacturers may not be able to meet our demand which would inhibit our ability to meet customer demand and maintain or grow our revenues. Furthermore, it could be costly and require a long period of time to move products from one contract manufacturer to another which could result in interruptions in supply and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We manufacture some of the components that we provide to our contract manufacturers, along with our own finished goods, in our Thailand and San Jose, California manufacturing facilities. For some of the components and finished good products we are the sole manufacturer. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, and issues are often difficult to detect and correct. From time to time we have experienced problems achieving acceptable yields in our manufacturing facilities, resulting in delays in the availability of our products. In addition, if we experience problems with our manufacturing facilities, it would be costly and require a long period of time to move the manufacture of these components and finished good products to a different facility or contract manufacturer which could then result in interruptions in supply, and would likely materially impact our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, for a variety of reasons, including changes in circumstances at our contract manufacturers or our own business strategies, we may be required to, or voluntarily may, transfer the manufacturing of certain products to other manufacturing sites, including our new Thailand manufacturing facility. For example, we are in the process of transitioning the manufacturing of our products with one of our contract manufacturers in China to our Thailand manufacturing facility. As a result of such transfers, our contract manufacturers may prioritize other customers or otherwise be unable to meet our demand. If such transfers are unsuccessful, it could result in interruptions in supply and would likely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in manufacturing processes are often required due to changes in product specifications, changing customer needs and the introduction of new products. These changes may reduce manufacturing yields at our contract manufacturers and at our own manufacturing facilities, resulting in reduced margins on those products.. 13. Table of Contents. In addition, many of our products are sourced from suppliers based outside of the United States, primarily in Asia. Uncertainty with respect to tax and trade policies, tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the United States and other countries has recently increased. Major developments in tax policy or trade relations, such as the imposition of tariffs on imported products, could increase our product and product-related costs or require us to seek alternative suppliers, either of which could result in decreased sales or increases product and product-related costs.. If our customers do not qualify our manufacturing lines or the manufacturing lines of our subcontractors for volume shipments, our operating results could suffer.. Certain of our customers do not purchase products, other than limited numbers of evaluation units, prior to qualification of the manufacturing line for volume production. Our existing manufacturing lines, as well as each new manufacturing line, must pass through varying levels of qualification with certain of our customers. Our manufacturing lines have passed our qualification standards, as well as our technical standards. However, some of our customers also require that our manufacturing lines pass their specific qualification standards and that we, and any subcontractors that we may use, be registered under international quality standards.  We may encounter quality control issues as a result of relocating our manufacturing lines or introducing new products to fill production. We may be unable to obtain customer qualification of our manufacturing lines or we may experience delays in obtaining customer qualification of our manufacturing lines. If we introduce new contract manufacturing partners and move any production lines from existing internal or external facilities, the new production lines will likely need to be re-qualified with our customers. Any delays or failure to obtain qualifications would harm our operating results and customer relationships.. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for raw materials, packages and components, and any failure or delay by these suppliers in meeting our requirements could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. We purchase raw materials, packages and components from a limited number of suppliers, who are often small and specialized. Additionally, some of our suppliers are our sole sources for certain materials, equipment and components.  We depend on the timely and continued supply and quality of the materials, packages and components that our suppliers supply to us. In general, we have not entered into long-term agreements with our suppliers.  As a result, these suppliers generally may stop supplying us materials and equipment at any time.  Our business and results of operations have been, and could continue to be, adversely affected by this dependency. Specific concerns we periodically encounter with our sole suppliers or limited number of suppliers include receipt of defective parts or contaminated materials, stoppages or delays of supply, insufficient resources to supply our requirements, substitution of more expensive or less reliable materials, increases in the price of supplies, and an inability to obtain reduced pricing from our suppliers in response to competitive pressures. Any disruption in the supply of the raw materials, packaging or components used in the manufacture and delivery of our products could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We contract with a number of large OEM and end-user service providers and product companies that have considerable bargaining power, which may require us to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues.. Large OEM and end-user service providers and product companies comprise a significant portion of our customer base. These customers generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers, including us. As we seek to expand our sales to existing customers and acquire new customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that are favorable to our customers and that may affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue, increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, large customers have increased buying power and ability to require onerous terms in our contracts with them, including pricing, warranties, and indemnification terms. If we are unable to satisfy the terms of these contracts, it could result in liabilities of a material nature, including litigation, damages, additional costs, loss of market share and loss of reputation. Additionally, the terms these large customers require, such as most-favored nation or exclusivity provisions, may impact our ability to do business with other customers and generate revenues from such customers.. Our products may contain defects that could cause us to incur significant costs, divert our attention from product development efforts and result in a loss of customers.. Our products are complex and defects may be found from time to time. Networking products in particular frequently contain undetected software or hardware defects when first introduced or as new versions are released. In addition, our products are often embedded in or deployed in conjunction with our customers' products which incorporate a variety of components produced by third parties. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant damages or warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relation problems or loss of customers, all of which would harm our business.. 14. Table of Contents. We are subject to risks arising from our international operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We derive a majority of our revenue from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. In addition, we have extensive international manufacturing capabilities through third-party contract manufacturers, as well as through our own international facilities, with employees engaged in R&D, administration, manufacturing, support and sales and marketing activities.. As a result of our international operations, in addition to similar risks we face in our U.S. operations, we are affected by economic, business, regulatory, social, and political conditions in foreign countries, including the following:. • changes in general IT spending;. • the imposition of government controls, inclusive of critical infrastructure protection;. • changes in or limitations imposed by trade protection laws or other regulatory orders or requirements in the United States or in other countries, including tariffs, sanctions, or other costs or requirements which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries;. • varying and potentially conflicting laws and regulations;. • fluctuations in local economies;. • wage inflation or a tightening of the labor market;. • political developments of foreign nations; and. • the impact of the following on service provider and government spending patterns as well as our contract and internal manufacturing: political considerations, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, unfavorable events that affect foreign currencies, natural disasters, epidemic disease, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism, political and social unrest and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations.. Since the beginning of 2018, there has been increasing rhetoric, in some cases coupled with legislative or executive action, from several U.S. and foreign leaders regarding the possibility of instituting tariffs against foreign imports of certain materials.  More specifically, the United States and China have applied tariffs to certain of each other's exports. The institution of trade tariffs both globally and between the United States and China specifically carries the risk of negatively impacting overall economic conditions, which could have negative repercussions on the Company. Furthermore, imposition of tariffs could cause a decrease in the sales of our products to customers located in China or other customers selling to Chinese end users, which would directly impact our business.. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from or conflict with those in the United States or other countries in which we operate. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or U.S. regulations applicable to us. There can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and policies. Violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners, or agents could result in termination of our relationships with customers and suppliers, financial reporting problems, fines and/or penalties for us, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face a number of risks related to our strategic transactions.. We have made acquisitions of other businesses or technologies in the past and we will continue to review and may pursue acquisition and other strategic opportunities, for example, our proposed acquisition of Oclaro announced in March 2018. Such strategic transactions involve numerous risks, including the following:. •     diversion of management's attention from normal daily operations of the business;. • unforeseen expenses, delays or conditions imposed upon the acquisition or transaction, including due to required regulatory approvals or consents;. 15. Table of Contents. • unanticipated changes in the combined business due to potential divestitures or other requirements imposed by antitrust regulators;. • unanticipated changes in the acquired business, including due to regulatory action or changes in the operating results or financial condition of the business;. • the ability to retain and obtain required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits;. • difficulties and costs in integrating the operations, technologies, products, IT and other systems, facilities and personnel of the purchased businesses;. • loss of customers, suppliers or partners;. • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process R&D;. • an acquisition or strategic transaction may not further our business strategy as we expected or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on, our investments;. • we may face unanticipated liabilities or our exposure for known contingencies and liabilities may exceed our estimates;. • insufficient net revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions;. • potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies or difficulty maintaining our company culture;. • difficulty forecasting revenues and margins;. • dilution of our current stockholders as a result of any issuance of equity securities as acquisition consideration;. • expenditure of cash that would otherwise be available to operate our business;. • incurrence of indebtedness on terms that are unfavorable to us, limit our operational flexibility or that we are unable to repay;. • incurrence or assumption of contingent liabilities, known or unknown, including potential lawsuits, infringement actions or similar liabilities; and. • incurrence of impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangibles.. If we are unable to successfully manage any of these risks in relation to any future acquisitions, including our acquisition of Oclaro, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.. Changes in demand and customer requirements for our products may reduce manufacturing yields, which could negatively impact our profitability.. Manufacturing yields depend on a number of factors, including the volume of production due to customer demand and the nature and extent of changes in specifications required by customers for which we perform design-in work. Changes in manufacturing processes required as a result of changes in product specifications, changing customer needs, introduction of new product lines and changes in contract manufacturers may reduce manufacturing yields, resulting in low or negative margins on those products. Moreover, an increase in the rejection rate of products during the quality control process, before, during or after manufacture, results in lower gross margins from lower yields and additional rework costs. Any reduction in our manufacturing yields will adversely affect our gross margins and could have a material impact on our operating results.. We incorporated changes to our international corporate structure in the fiscal third quarter of 2018 in order to further reduce our effective tax rate. We have not operationalized the new international structure to the full extent possible at this time due to various factors including the pending acquisition of Oclaro, which could significantly impact our existing tax strategy.  If we are unable to fully adopt a new international structure or if it is successfully challenged by the U.S. or foreign tax authorities, we may be unable to realize the anticipated tax savings which could materially and adversely affect our operating results.. We initiated a new international corporate structure more closely aligned with our international operations during the fiscal third quarter of 2018. The new corporate structure is intended to reduce our overall effective tax rate through changes among our wholly-owned subsidiaries in how we use our intellectual property, and how we structure our international procurement and sales operations. The new structure includes legal entities located in jurisdictions with income tax rates lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate. The intercompany arrangements are intended to result in income earned by such entities in accordance with arm's-length. 16. Table of Contents. principles and commensurate with functions performed, risks assumed and ownership of valuable corporate assets. We have not operationalized the new structure to the full extent possible at this time due to various factors including the pending acquisition of Oclaro, which could significantly impact our existing tax strategy. We are currently in the process of evaluating the Oclaro transaction's impact to our tax structure and, depending on the outcome, we may make modifications to the new structure in order to achieve better tax and operational efficiency.. We have agreed to reimburse Viavi for certain tax liabilities and related costs that may be incurred by Viavi, under certain circumstances, as a result of implementing the new corporate structure or a modified structure in the future. In addition, the implementation of such a structure has required us to incur expenses, and may require that we incur additional expenses, for which we may not realize the anticipated benefit or it may take us several years to fully realize the anticipated benefit.. If the new structure is not accepted by the applicable taxing authorities, if changes in domestic and international tax laws negatively impact the structure, if the acquisition of Oclaro prevents us from implementing a tax efficient structure, or if we do not operate our business consistent with the new structure and applicable tax provisions, we may fail to achieve the financial and operational efficiencies that we anticipate as a result of the new structure, and our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected.. Changes in tax laws or ceasing to qualify for tax holiday in Thailand could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial conditions.. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant uncertainties exist with respect to the amount of our tax liabilities, including those arising from potential changes in laws in the countries in which we do business and the possibility of adverse determinations with respect to the application of existing laws. Many judgments are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities, and we are under audit by various tax authorities, which often do not agree with positions taken by us on our tax returns. Any unfavorable resolution of these uncertainties may have a significant adverse impact on our tax rate.. Increasingly, countries around the world are actively considering or have enacted changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations. In particular, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\") contains many significant changes to the U.S. tax laws that affected our fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, and which will continue to affect our fiscal years thereafter.  The changes include, but are not limited to, (1) a reduction in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate (resulting in a blended corporate rate of 28% for our fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, and a rate of 21% for our fiscal years thereafter); (2) a mandatory deemed repatriation tax (\"Transition Tax\") on certain deferred income of foreign subsidiaries that, if the taxpayer so elects, is payable over eight years; (3) bonus depreciation that allows full expensing of qualified property; (4) elimination of the corporate alternative minimum tax; (5) addition of the Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax (\"BEAT\"), a new minimum tax on taxable income adjusted for certain base erosion payments; (6) a general elimination of U.S. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries; (7) a new provision to currently tax Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (\"GILTI\"); (8) a new limitation on deductible interest expense; (9) the repeal of the domestic production activity deduction; (10) limitations on the deductibility of certain executive compensation; (11) limitations on the use of foreign tax credits (\"FTCs\") to reduce U.S. income tax liability; and (12) limitations on net operating losses generated in the taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, to 80 percent of taxable income.. The reduction in the U.S. federal statutory rate is expected to positively impact our federal cash tax liability.  However, the ultimate impact is subject to the effect of other complex provisions in the Tax Act (including the BEAT and GILTI), which we are currently reviewing, and it is possible that any impact of BEAT, GILTI, or other provisions of the Tax Act could significantly reduce, or outweigh, the benefit of the reduction in the U.S. federal statutory rate. Due to the uncertain practical and technical application of many of these provisions, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts where possible for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018.  The U.S. Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and other standards-setting bodies may issue guidance on how the provisions of the Tax Act will be applied that is different from our interpretation.  The Tax Act requires complex computations not previously required or produced, and significant judgments and assumptions in the interpretation of the law were made in producing our provisional estimates. As we complete our analyses, and interpret any additional guidance, we may adjust the provisional amounts we have recorded, and those adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. We also anticipate that uncertainty in the application of the Tax Act to our ongoing operations as well as possible adverse future law changes attributable to changes in the U.S. political environment could have an adverse impact on our future tax rate. Other countries also continue to consider enacting new laws, which could adversely affect us. The foregoing items could increase our future tax expense, could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of foreign earnings, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 17. Table of Contents. The income and non-income tax regimes we are subject to or operate under are unsettled and may be subject to significant change. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings, or changes in interpretations of existing laws, could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. Many countries in Europe, as well as a number of other countries and organizations, have recently proposed or recommended changes to existing tax laws or have enacted new laws that could increase our tax obligations where we do business or require us to change the manner in which we operate our business. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has been working on a Base Erosion and Profit Sharing Project, and issued in 2015, and is expected to continue to issue, guidelines and proposals that may change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in many of the countries in which we do business.. During fiscal 2018, our subsidiary in Thailand operated under a tax holiday. The tax holiday will expire in fiscal 2025 unless extension is granted by the Thailand government and we continue to meet the requirements thereunder.  If we do not meet the tax holiday requirements, if we are not granted extension by the Thailand government, or if we decide not to apply for extension of the tax holiday, income earned in Thailand will be subject to higher statutory income tax rate, which may cause our effective tax rate to increase and reduce our liquidity and cash flow.. Our operating results may be subject to volatility due to fluctuations in foreign currency.. We are exposed to foreign exchange risks with regard to our international operations which may affect our operating results. Since we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  Although we price our products primarily in U.S. dollars, a portion of our operating expenses are incurred in foreign currencies. For example, a portion of our expenses are denominated in U.K. pound sterling and Japanese yen. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between these currencies and, to a lesser extent, other currencies in which we collect revenues and/or pay expenses could have a material effect on our future operating results.  If the value of the U.S. dollar depreciates relative to certain other foreign currencies, it would increase our costs as expressed in U.S. dollars. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could raise the relative cost of our products to non-U.S. customers, especially as compared to foreign competitors, and could reduce demand.. Although we intend to hedge for a portion of our foreign currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our net income. Additionally, hedging programs rely on our ability to forecast accurately and could expose us to additional risks that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to develop, market, and sell products could be harmed if we are unable to retain or hire key personnel.. Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel. The supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people specializing in the service provider, enterprise and commercial laser markets, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense. None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products.. We may be unable to successfully implement our acquisitions strategy or integrate acquired companies and personnel with existing operations.. We have in the past acquired several companies, and have announced that we signed a definitive agreement to acquire Oclaro.  We may continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional acquisitions. We may be unable to identify or complete prospective acquisitions for many reasons, including increasing competition from other potential acquirers, the effects of consolidation in our industries and potentially high valuations of acquisition candidates. In addition, applicable antitrust laws and other regulations may limit our ability to acquire targets or force us to divest an acquired business. If we are unable to identify suitable targets or complete acquisitions, our growth prospects may suffer, and we may not be able to realize sufficient scale and technological advantages to compete effectively in all markets.. To the extent we are successful in making acquisitions, we may be unsuccessful in integrating acquired companies or product lines with existing operations, or the integration may be more difficult or more costly than anticipated. Some of the risks that may affect our ability to integrate or realize any anticipated benefits from acquired companies, businesses or assets include those associated with:. • unexpected losses of key employees of the acquired company;. • conforming the acquired company's standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations, including integrating Enterprise Resource Planning (\"ERP\") systems and other key business applications;. 18. Table of Contents. • coordinating new product and process development;. • increasing complexity from combining operations;. • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations;. • difficulties in consolidating facilities and transferring processes and know-how; and. • diversion of management's attention from other business concerns.. In connection with acquisitions, we may:. • use a signification portion of our available cash;. • issue equity securities, which would dilute current stockholders' percentage ownership;. • incur significant debt;. • incur or assume contingent liabilities, known or unknown, including potential lawsuits, infringement actions or similar liabilities;. • incur impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangibles; and. • face antitrust or other regulatory inquiries or actions.. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected if the effect of any acquisitions on our consolidated financial results is dilutive or is below the market's or financial analysts' expectations, or if there are unanticipated changes in the business or financial performance of the target company or the combined company. Any failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses may disrupt our business and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all.. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including to support product development and introduce new products, address new markets, engage in strategic transactions and partnerships, improve or expand our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. In March 2018, we entered into a commitment letter (the \"Commitment Letter\") with Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG New York, New York Branch (the \"Commitment Party\"), pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, the Commitment Party has committed to provide a senior secured term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $550 million. In March 2017, we issued and sold a total of $450 million in aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due in 2024 (the \"2024 Notes\") and we may in the future engage in additional equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity, equity-linked or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing we secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business may be harmed.. Our ability to hire and retain employees may be negatively impacted by changes in immigration laws, regulations and procedures.. Foreign nationals who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents constitute an important part of our U.S. workforce, particularly in the areas of engineering and product development. Our ability to hire and retain these workers and their ability to remain and work in the United States are impacted by laws and regulations, as well as by procedures and enforcement practices of various government agencies. Changes in immigration laws, regulations or procedures, including those that may be enacted by the current U.S. presidential administration, may adversely affect our ability to hire or retain such workers, increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our ability to deliver our products and services.. Any failure, disruption or security breach of our information technology infrastructure or information management systems could have an adverse impact on our business and operations.. 19. Table of Contents. Our business depends significantly on effective and efficient information management systems, and the reliability and security of our information technology infrastructure are essential to the health and expansion of our business. For example, the information gathered and processed by our information management systems assists us in managing our supply chain, monitoring customer accounts, and protecting our proprietary and confidential business information, plans, trade secrets, and intellectual property, among other things. In addition, these systems may also contain personal data or other protected information about our employees, our customers' employees, or others. We must continue to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing requirements as well as evolving security standards and risks.. In some cases, we may rely upon third-party providers of hosting, support and other services to meet our information technology requirements. Any failure to manage, expand and update our information technology infrastructure, including our ERP system and other applications, any failure in the extension implementation or operation of this infrastructure, or any failure by our hosting and support partners or other third-party service providers in the performance of their services could materially harm our business. In addition, we have partnered with third parties to support our information technology systems and to help design, build, test, implement and maintain our information management systems. Our merger, acquisition and divestiture activity may also require transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information management systems within our overall enterprise architecture, including our ERP system and other applications. Those systems that we acquire may also pose security risks of which we are unaware or unable to mitigate, particularly during the transition of these systems.. Like other companies, we are subject to ongoing attempts by malicious actors, including through hacking, malware, ransomware, denial-of-service attacks, social engineering, exploitation of internet-connected devices, and other attacks, to obtain unauthorized access or acquisition of confidential information or otherwise affect service reliability and threaten the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information on our systems. We have been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to social engineering and other cybersecurity attacks. Further, our third party service providers may have been and may be in the future subject to such attacks. In addition, actions by our employees, service providers, partners, contractors or others, whether malicious or in error, could affect the security of our systems.  Additionally, while our security systems are designed to maintain the physical security of our facilities and information systems, accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access by third parties to our facilities or our information systems could lead to misappropriation of proprietary and confidential information.. Despite our implementation of security measures, our systems and those of our third-party service providers are vulnerable to damage from these types of attacks or errors. In addition, our systems may be impacted by natural disasters, terrorism or other similar disruptions. Any system failure, accident or security breach affecting us or our third-party providers could result in disruptions to our operations and loss of or unauthorized access or damage to our data or in inappropriate disclosure of confidential information. Any actual or alleged disruption to, or security breach affecting, our systems or those of our third-party partners could cause significant damage to our reputation, lead to theft of our protected intellectual property and trade secrets, result in legal obligations or liability, affect our relationships with our customers, and ultimately harm our business. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against or mitigate damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future.. Our revenues, operating results, and cash flows may fluctuate from period to period due to a number of factors, which makes predicting financial results difficult.. Spending on optical communication and laser products is subject to cyclical and uneven fluctuations, which could cause our financial results to fluctuate unevenly and unpredictably. It can be difficult to predict the degree to which end-customer demand and the seasonality and uneven sales patterns of our OEM partners or other customers will affect our business in the future, particularly as we or they release new or enhanced products. While our fourth fiscal quarters are typically strongest, future buying patterns may differ from historical seasonality. Further, if the mix of revenue changes, it may also cause results to differ from historical seasonality. Accordingly, our quarterly and annual revenues, operating results, cash flows, and other financial and operating metrics may vary significantly in the future, and the results of any prior periods should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance.. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions.. Adverse changes to and uncertainty in the global economy may lead to decreased demand for our products and revenue fluctuations, increased price competition for our products, and may increase the risk of excess and obsolete inventories and higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue. Declines or uncertainty in particular geographic regions, such as China or Europe, may impact IT-related spending generally and consequently, lead to lower growth or a decline in our markets. The loss or delay of orders from any of our more significant customers could cause our revenue and profitability to suffer. The impact of economic challenges on the global financial markets could further negatively impact our operations by affecting the solvency of our customers, the solvency of our key suppliers or the ability of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. If economic conditions deteriorate or remain uncertain, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely impacted.. 20. Table of Contents. If we have insufficient proprietary rights or if we fail to protect our rights, our business would be materially harmed.. We seek to protect our products and product roadmaps in part by developing and/or securing proprietary rights relating to those products, including patents, trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation. The steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately prevent misappropriation or ensure that others will not develop competitive technologies or products. Other companies may be investigating or developing technologies that are similar to our own. It is possible that patents may not be issued from any of our pending applications or those we may file in the future and, if patents are issued, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to deter or prohibit others from making, using or selling products that are similar to ours, or such patents could be invalidated or ruled unenforceable. We do not own patents in every country in which we sell or distribute our products, and thus others may be able to offer identical products in countries where we do not have intellectual property protections. In addition, the laws of some territories in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including Europe, Asia-Pacific or Latin America, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Any patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Additionally, we are currently a licensee for a number of third-party technologies including software and intellectual property rights from academic institutions, our competitors and others, and we are required to pay royalties to these licensors for the use thereof. In the future, if such licenses are unavailable or if we are unable to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, we may not be able to rely on such third-party technologies which could inhibit our development of new products, impede the sale of some of our current products, substantially increase the cost to provide these products to our customers, and could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results.. We also seek to protect our important trademarks by endeavoring to register them in certain countries. We have not registered our trademarks in every country in which we sell or distribute our products, and thus others may be able to use the same or confusingly similar marks in countries where we do not have trademark registrations. We have adopted Lumentum as a house trademark and trade name for our company, and are in the process of establishing rights in this name and brand. We have also adopted the Lumentum logo as a house trademark for our company, and are in the process of establishing rights in this brand. The Lumentum brand is the subject of trademark applications in the United States or other jurisdictions, but the trademarks have not yet proceeded to registration. The efforts we take to register and protect trademarks, including the Lumentum brand, may not be sufficient or effective. Although we will seek to obtain trademark registrations for the Lumentum brand, it is possible we may not be able to protect our brand through registration in one or more jurisdictions, for example, the applicable governmental authorities may not approve the registration. Furthermore, even if the applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge registration. There is the possibility that, despite efforts, the scope of the protection obtained for our trademarks, including the Lumentum brand, will be insufficient or that a registration may be deemed invalid or unenforceable in one or more jurisdictions throughout the world.. Further, a breach of our information technology infrastructure could result in the misappropriation of intellectual property, business plans or trade secrets. Any failure of our systems or those of our third-party service providers could result in unauthorized access or acquisition of such proprietary information, and any actual or perceived security breach could cause significant damage to our reputation and adversely impact our relationships with our customers.. Our products may be subject to claims that they infringe the intellectual property rights of others, the resolution of which may be time-consuming and expensive, as well as require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing.. Lawsuits and allegations of patent infringement and violation of other intellectual property rights occur regularly in our industry. We have in the past received, and anticipate that we will receive in the future, notices from third parties claiming that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights, with two distinct sources of such claims becoming increasingly prevalent. First, large technology companies, including some of our customers and competitors, are seeking to monetize their patent portfolios and have developed large internal organizations that may approach us with demands to enter into license agreements. Second, patent-holding companies that do not make or sell products (often referred to as \"patent trolls\") may claim that our products infringe upon their proprietary rights. We respond to these claims in the course of our business operations. The litigation or settlement of these matters, regardless of the merit of the claims, could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, regardless of whether or not we are successful. If we are unsuccessful, we could be required to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses to the technology that is the subject of the litigation. We may not be successful in such development, or such licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Without such a license, or if we are the subject of an exclusionary order, our ability to make our products could be limited and we could be enjoined from future sales of the infringing product or products, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Additionally, we often indemnify our customers against claims of infringement related to our products and may incur significant expenses to defend against such claims. If we are unsuccessful defending against such claims, we may be required to indemnify our customers against any damages awarded.. 21. Table of Contents. We also face risks that third parties may assert trademark infringement claims against us in one or more jurisdictions throughout the world related to our Lumentum and Oclaro brands and/or other trademarks. The litigation or settlement of these matters, regardless of the merit of the claims, could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, regardless of whether or not we are successful. If we are unsuccessful, trademark infringement claims against us could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from selling some or all of our products or services under the challenged trademark. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to alter our products, labels or packaging, license rights from third parties, or cease using the challenged trademark altogether, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating results.. We face certain litigation risks that could harm our business.. From time to time we have been, and in the future we may become, subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. The results of legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Moreover, many of the complaints filed against us may not specify the amount of damages that plaintiffs seek, and we therefore may be unable to estimate the possible range of damages that might be incurred should these lawsuits be resolved against us. While we may be unable to estimate the potential damages arising from such lawsuits, certain of them assert types of claims that, if resolved against us, could give rise to substantial damages. Thus, an unfavorable outcome or settlement of one or more of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Even if these lawsuits are not resolved against us, the uncertainty and expense associated with unresolved lawsuits could seriously harm our business, financial condition and reputation. Litigation is generally costly, time-consuming and disruptive to normal business operations. The costs of defending these lawsuits have been significant in the past, will continue to be costly and may not be covered by our insurance policies. The defense of these lawsuits could also result in continued diversion of our management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. For additional discussion regarding litigation, see \"Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings.\". Lawsuits have been filed against us, Oclaro, its directors, and certain other parties challenging the Merger, and an adverse judgment in such lawsuits, or any similar lawsuit, may prevent the Merger from being consummated or from being consummated within the expected timeframe.. As described in greater detail in \"Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings\" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we, along with Oclaro, Oclaro's directors, and certain other parties were named as defendants in two putative class action lawsuits. One of the lawsuits was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and the other was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. Both have been voluntarily dismissed with prejudice.. Oclaro and its directors were also named as defendants in five additional lawsuits, including two putative class actions, each of which was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. Four of these five additional lawsuits have been dismissed. Three of the dismissals were with prejudice and one was without prejudice. We were not named as a defendant in these five lawsuits.. Each of the above-referenced lawsuits was filed by purported stockholders of Oclaro to challenge the Merger. The plaintiffs have sought, among other things, injunctive relief preventing the parties from consummating the Merger, rescission of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement should they be consummated, and litigation costs, including attorneys' fees, as well as damages to be awarded to the plaintiff and any class if the Merger is consummated. One of the conditions to consummating the Merger is the absence of any order, judgment or injunction enjoining or otherwise prohibiting consummation of the Merger in any jurisdiction that is material to the business or operations of us or Oclaro. Consequently, if the remaining plaintiff - or any plaintiff who subsequently files a similar lawsuit - is successful  in obtaining an injunction preventing the parties from consummating the Merger, such injunction may prevent the Merger from being completed in the expected timeframe, or at all. This lawsuit and any other subsequently filed similar lawsuits could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our products incorporate and rely upon licensed third-party technology, and if licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or are not available on terms acceptable to us, our revenues and ability to develop and introduce new products could be adversely affected.. We integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products. From time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements. Third-party licenses may not be available or continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. The failure to comply with the terms of any license, including free open source software, may result in our inability to continue to use such license. Our inability to maintain or re-license any third-party licenses required in our products or our inability to obtain third-party licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could potentially require us to develop substitute technology or obtain substitute technology of lower quality or performance standards or at a greater cost, any of which could delay or prevent product shipment and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. 22. Table of Contents. We are subject to laws and other regulations worldwide including with respect to environmental matters, securities laws, privacy and data protection, compliance with which could increase our expenses and harm our operating results.. Our operations and our products are subject to various federal, state and foreign laws and regulations, including those governing pollution and protection of human health and the environment in the jurisdictions in which we operate or sell our products. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, wastewater discharges and the handling and disposal of hazardous materials in our products. Our failure to comply with current and future environmental or health or safety requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs, including significant capital expenditures, to comply with such environmental laws and regulations and to clean up contaminated properties that we own or operate. Such clean-up or compliance obligations could result in disruptions to our operations. Additionally, if we are found to be in violation of these laws, we could be subject to governmental fines or civil liability for damages resulting from such violations. These costs could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or operating results.. From time to time new regulations are enacted, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will be implemented and enforced. We continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. These regulations include, for example, the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (\"REACH\"), the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (\"RoHS\") and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (\"WEEE\") enacted in the European Union which regulate the use of certain hazardous substances in, and require the collection, reuse and recycling of waste from, certain products we manufacture. These regulations and similar legislation may require us to re-design our products to ensure compliance with the applicable standards, for example by requiring the use of different types of materials, which could have an adverse impact on the performance of our products, add greater testing lead-times for product introductions or other similar effects. We believe we comply with all such legislation where our products are sold and we continuously monitor these laws and the regulations being adopted under them to determine our responsibilities.. In addition, pursuant to Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC has promulgated rules requiring disclosure regarding the use of certain \"conflict minerals\" that are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such minerals. Complying with these disclosure requirements involves substantial diligence efforts to determine the source of any conflict minerals used in our products and may require third-party auditing of our diligence process. These efforts may demand internal resources that would otherwise be directed towards operations activities.. Since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the conflict minerals used in our products. Additionally, if we are unable to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products are determined to be conflict free, they may choose a competitor's products which could materially impact our financial condition and operating results.. Additionally, we are subject to laws and regulations with respect to personal data we collect from our employees, customers, and others. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent modifications and updates and require ongoing supervision. For example, the European Union adopted a General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") that became effective in May 2018, and has established new, and in some cases more stringent, requirements for data protection in Europe, and which provides for substantial penalties for noncompliance. We have made certain modifications to our practices in order to comply with these or other requirements, and may be required to make additional modifications in order to comply with these or other requirements relating to privacy and data protection in the future, each of which may require us to incur significant costs and expenses. Additionally, California enacted legislation in June 2018, the California Consumer Privacy Act (\"CCPA\"), which will, among other things, require covered companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers when it goes into effect on January 1, 2020. Legislators have stated that they intend to propose amendments to the CCPA before it goes into effect, and it remains unclear what, if any, modifications will be made to this legislation or how it will be interpreted. The effects of the CCPA are potentially significant, however, and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply. Laws and regulations relating to privacy and data protection continue to evolve in various jurisdictions, with existing laws and regulations subject to new and differing interpretations and new laws and regulations being proposed and adopted.  It is possible that our practices may be deemed not to comply with those privacy and data protection legal requirements that apply to us now or in the future.. Further, in June 2016, a referendum was passed in the United Kingdom to leave the European Union, commonly referred to as \"Brexit.\" This created an uncertain political and economic environment in the United Kingdom and other European Union countries, even though the formal process for leaving the European Union may take years to complete and may not ultimately be effectuated.  For example, while the United Kingdom has enacted a Data Protection Bill that substantially implements GDPR, which became law in May 2018, there remains uncertainty with regard to whether the European Union will view this regulation as adequate under GDPR and how data transfers between the United Kingdom and the European Union will be regulated.. 23. Table of Contents. Our failure or perceived failure to comply with any of the foregoing legal and regulatory requirements could result in increased costs for our products, monetary penalties, damages to our reputation, government inquiries and investigations, and legal action. Furthermore, the legal and regulatory requirements that are applicable to our business are subject to change from time to time, which increases our monitoring and compliance costs and the risk that we may fall out of compliance. Additionally, we may be required to ensure that our suppliers comply with applicable laws and regulations. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with such laws or regulations, we could face sanctions for such noncompliance, and our customers may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our sales may decline if we are unable to obtain government authorization to export certain of our products, and we may be subject to legal and regulatory consequences if we do not comply with applicable export control laws and regulations.. Exports of certain of our products are subject to export controls imposed by the U.S. government and administered by the U.S. Departments of State and Commerce. In certain instances, these regulations may require pre-shipment authorization from the administering department. For products subject to the Export Administration Regulations (\"EAR\") administered by the Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security, the requirement for a license is dependent on the type and end use of the product, the final destination, the identity of the end user and whether a license exception might apply. Virtually all exports of products subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (\"ITAR\") administered by the Department of State's Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, require a license. Certain of our fiber optics products are subject to EAR and certain of our RF-over-fiber products, as well as certain products and technical data, are developed with government funding, and are currently subject to ITAR. Products and the associated technical data developed and manufactured in our foreign locations are subject to export controls of the applicable foreign nation.. Given the current global political climate, obtaining export licenses can be difficult and time-consuming. Failure to obtain export licenses for these shipments could significantly reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with U.S. government regulations also subjects us to additional fees and costs. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position.. Further, there is increased attention from the government, the media and regarding potential threats to U.S. national security and foreign policy relating to certain foreign entities, particularly Chinese entities, and the imposition of enhanced restrictions or sanctions regarding the export of our products or on specific foreign entities that would restrict their ability to do business with U.S. companies may materially adversely affect our business. For example, in April 2018, Zhongxing Telecommunications Equipment Corporation and ZTE Kangxun Communications Ltd. (collectively \"ZTE\") were added to the U.S. Departments of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security's List of Denied Persons, which imposed a seven year denial of export privileges against ZTE. However, in July 2018, the denial of export privileges was suspended and ZTE was removed from the List of Denied Persons.  We are aware that certain of our customers have been investigated by the U.S. government in the past and may be in the future.. Our association with customers that are or become subject to U.S. regulatory scrutiny or export restrictions could negatively impact our business. Governmental actions such as these could subject us to actual or perceived reputational harm among current or prospective investors, suppliers or customers, customers of our customers, other parties doing business with us, or the general public.  Any such reputational harm could result in the loss of investors, suppliers or customers, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects.. In addition, certain of our significant customers and suppliers have products that are subject to U.S. export controls, and therefore these customers and suppliers may also be subject to legal and regulatory consequences if they do not comply with applicable export control laws and regulations. Such regulatory consequences could disrupt our ability to obtain components from our suppliers, or to sell our products to major customers, which could significantly increase our costs, reduce our revenue and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and Nasdaq listing requirements. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we have expended, and anticipate that we will continue to expend, significant resources, including accounting-related costs and significant management oversight.. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, could cause us to delay reporting of our financial results, be subject to one or more investigations or enforcement actions by state. 24. Table of Contents. or federal regulatory agencies, stockholder lawsuits or other adverse actions requiring us to incur defense costs, pay fines, settlements or judgments. Any such failures could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on the NASDAQ stock market.. We face a number of risks related to our Separation from Viavi, including those associated with ongoing indemnification obligations and tax and accounting-related risks, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In August 2015, we became an independent publicly-traded company through the distribution by JDS Uniphase Corporation (\"JDSU\") to its stockholders of 80.1% of our outstanding common stock (the \"Separation\"). The Separation and Distribution Agreement dated as of July 31, 2015 by and among JDSU, Lumentum Holdings Inc. and Lumentum Operations LLC (the \"Separation Agreement\") requires that we indemnify Viavi, and that Viavi indemnify us, for certain specified liabilities related to the Separation. Among other things, we are obligated to indemnify Viavi against certain tax-related liabilities that may result from the breach of any of our representations or covenants made in connection with the Separation.  Our indemnification obligations are not subject to maximum loss clauses and, if we are required to indemnify Viavi under the circumstances set forth in the Separation Agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. Furthermore, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Viavi has agreed to indemnify us for, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from Viavi will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that Viavi will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations.. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price may be volatile and may decline regardless of our operating performance.. Our common stock is listed on NASDAQ under the symbol \"LITE\". Since shares of our common stock commenced trading on the NASDAQ stock market in August 2015, the reported high and low closing prices of our common stock per the NASDAQ Global Select Market has ranged from $14.12 to $73.20, through June 30, 2018. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results;. • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates;. • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies;. • a shift in our investor base;. • the financial performance of other companies in our industry;. • success or failure of our business strategy;. • credit market fluctuations which could negatively impact our ability to obtain financing as needed;. • changes to the regulatory and legal environment in which we operate;. • announcements by us, competitors, customers, or our contract manufacturers of significant acquisitions or dispositions, including our recently announced merger with Oclaro;. • investor perception of us and our industry;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • litigation or disputes in which we may become involved;. • overall market fluctuations; sales of our shares by our officers, directors, or significant stockholders;. • the timing and amount of dividends and share repurchases, if any; and. • general economic and market conditions and other external factors.. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were to become involved in securities. 25. Table of Contents. litigation, it could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Our proposed acquisition of Oclaro may not be completed, which could negatively affect our share price and our future business and financial results.. In March 2018, we announced that we signed a merger agreement to acquire Oclaro.  Our and Oclaro's obligations to consummate the merger with Oclaro (the \"Merger\") are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions.  These conditions include, among other customary conditions, adoption by Oclaro stockholders of the Merger Agreement, which occurred on July 10, 2018, no action being taken by any governmental entity having jurisdiction enjoining or otherwise prohibiting consummation of the Merger or instituting proceedings seeking the same, no law having been passed by any governmental entity making the consummation of the Merger illegal, receipt of certain specified regulatory approvals in the United States and the People's Republic of China, which closing condition was satisfied with respect to the United States on April 4, 2018 when the parties received early termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the \"HSR Act\"),  approval by NASDAQ for listing of the shares of our common stock to be issued in the Merger, accuracy of representations and warranties of the parties to the applicable standard provided by the Merger Agreement, no event occurring that had or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect (as defined below in the Merger Agreement) on us or Oclaro, compliance by the parties with their covenants in the Merger Agreement in all material respects and the effectiveness of the registration statement relating to the Merger, which occurred on May 31, 2018.. Additionally, a portion of the cash consideration to be paid in connection with the Merger is being funded with the proceeds of debt financing commitments obtained by us.  Although obtaining the proceeds of any debt financing, including the financing under the Commitment Letter, is not a condition to the consummation of the Merger, any failure by us to obtain any portion of the debt financing contemplated by the Commitment Letter (or any alternative financing) may result in the failure of the Merger to be consummated.. In addition, if the Merger is not completed on or before 5:00 p.m. Pacific Time on December 11, 2018 (subject to a potential extension to March 11, 2019), either we or Oclaro may choose to terminate the Merger Agreement.  We or Oclaro may also elect to terminate the Merger Agreement in certain other circumstances, and the parties can mutually decide to terminate the Merger Agreement at any time prior to the closing of the Merger, before or after Merger has been approved by Oclaro's stockholders, as applicable.. If the Merger is terminated or otherwise not completed, we would not realize any of the expected benefits of the Merger and may suffer other consequences that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and stock price, including, among others:. • we could be required to pay a termination fee of up to $80.0 million under specified circumstances relating to failure to obtain regulatory approvals;. •  we will have incurred and may continue to incur costs relating to the Merger, many of which are payable by us whether or not the Merger is completed;. • matters related to the Merger (including integration planning) require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management team and numerous others throughout our organization, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities;. • we are, and may continue to be, subject to legal proceedings related to the Merger or the failure to complete the Merger, which could be time consuming and expensive, could divert our management's attention away from our regular business and, if any lawsuit is adversely resolved against us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition;. • the failure to complete the Merger may result in negative publicity and a negative perception of us in the investment community, which could negative impact on our stock price; and. • any disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the Merger, including any adverse changes in our relationships with our customers, suppliers, partners or employees, may continue to intensify in the event the Merger is not consummated.. 26. Table of Contents. The Merger is subject to the expiration of an applicable waiting period under, and the receipt of approvals, consents or clearances from, antitrust regulatory authorities in the People's Republic of China that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on us or, if not obtained, could prevent completion of the Merger.. Before the Merger may be completed, the waiting period (or extension thereof) applicable to the Merger must have expired or been terminated, and any approvals, consents or clearances required in connection with the Merger must have been obtained, in each case, under the antitrust and competition laws of the People's Republic of China.  In deciding whether to grant the required regulatory approval, consent or clearance, the relevant governmental authorities will consider the effect of the Merger on competition within their jurisdiction, and other considerations they may deem appropriate. The terms and conditions of the approvals, consents and clearances that are granted may impose requirements, limitations or costs or place restrictions on the conduct of our business, any of which may adversely affect our financial position and prospects and our ability to achieve the cost savings and other synergies projected to result from the Merger.. The terms and conditions of the approvals, consents and clearances that are granted may impose requirements, limitations or costs or place restrictions on the conduct of our business, any of which may adversely affect our financial position and prospects and our ability to achieve the cost savings and other synergies projected to result from the Merger.. We face risks if the Merger is completed, including those related to the integration of Oclaro's business, our cash resources and financial results, undisclosed liabilities, and employee and customer retention.. If the Merger is completed, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of Oclaro with our business.  Due to legal restrictions, we and Oclaro have only been able to conduct limited planning regarding the integration of Oclaro into our business after completion of the Merger and we have not yet determined the exact nature of how the businesses and operations of Oclaro will be run following the Merger.  Potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include those related to the costs of integration and compliance, diversion of management's attention, our ability to create and enforce uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems, potential unknown liabilities, and unforeseen increased expenses or delays.. In connection with the Merger, we have agreed to pay an aggregate cash purchase price of approximately $416 million from the combined company's balance sheet. We have further entered into a commitment letter with Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG New York, New York Branch (the \"Commitment Party\"), pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, the Commitment Party has committed to provide a senior secured term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $550 million with a provision for additional senior secured term loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $250 million (collectively, the \"Term Loan Facilities\"). The use of a significant portion of our cash and the incurrence of substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of the Merger will reduce our liquidity, and may limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.. Our due diligence review of Oclaro in connection with the Merger may not have discovered undisclosed liabilities of Oclaro.  If Oclaro has undisclosed liabilities, Lumentum as a successor owner may be responsible for such undisclosed liabilities.  Such undisclosed liabilities could have an adverse effect on the business and results of operations and may adversely affect the value of our common stock after the consummation of the Merger.. The Merger may also result in significant charges or other liabilities that could adversely affect our results of operations, such as cash expenses and non-cash accounting charges incurred in connection with our acquisition and/or integration of the business and operations of Oclaro. In addition, our failure to identify or accurately assess the magnitude of certain liabilities we are assuming in the Merger could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting charges, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. Uncertainties about the Merger may cause our or Oclaro's current and prospective employees to experience uncertainty about their futures. These uncertainties may impair our ability to retain, recruit or motivate key management, engineering, technical and other personnel. Similarly, our or Oclaro's existing or prospective customers, suppliers and/or partners may delay, defer or cease purchasing products or services from or providing products or services to us or Oclaro; delay or defer other decisions concerning us or Oclaro; or otherwise seek to change the terms on which they do business with us or Oclaro. Any of the above could harm us and/or Oclaro, and thus decrease the benefits we expect to receive from the Merger.. Furthermore, we face indirect reputational and business risks with respect to events that affect Oclaro's business during the pendency of the transaction and following the closing. For example, Oclaro has publicly disclosed that ZTE has been among its customers. In April 2018, ZTE was added to the BIS's List of Denied Persons. While ZTE was removed from the List of Denied Persons in July 2018, any of Oclaro's customers that are, have been or become subject to U.S. regulatory scrutiny or export restrictions could negatively impact our business, including by subjecting us to actual or perceived reputational harm among current. 27. Table of Contents. or prospective investors, suppliers or customers, customers of our customers, other parties doing business with us, or the general public.  Any such reputational harm could result in the loss of investors, suppliers or customers, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability following the Merger to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or its ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger, including anticipated synergies, or could reduce the earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results after the Merger.. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock.. We do not currently expect to pay dividends on our common stock. The payment of any dividends to our stockholders in the future, and the timing and amount thereof, if any, is within the discretion of our board of directors. Our board of directors' decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, potential debt service obligations or restrictive covenants, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant.. In addition, because we are a holding company with no material direct operations, we are dependent on loans, dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to pay dividends on our common stock. However, our operating subsidiaries' ability to make such distributions will be subject to their operating results, cash requirements and financial condition and the applicable provisions of Delaware law that may limit the amount of funds available for distribution. Our ability to pay cash dividends may also be subject to covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future indebtedness, and other agreements with third parties.. The obligations of Lumentum Inc. to holders of its Series A Preferred Stock could have a negative impact on holders of our common stock.. Our subsidiary, Lumentum Inc., issued $35.8 million in Series A Preferred Stock to Viavi, which were sold to Amada following the Separation. The Series A Preferred Stock may be converted by Amada into shares of our common stock beginning on the second anniversary of the closing of the stock purchase (absent a change of control of us or similar event) using a conversion price of $24.63, which is equal to 125% of the volume weighted average price per share of our common stock in the five \"regular-way\" trading days following the Separation. Any shares of our common stock that may be issued upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock would dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders and any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. The Series A Preferred Stock may be redeemed by us upon the third anniversary of the date of issuance or the preferred stockholders may cause us to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock upon the fifth anniversary of the date of issuance.. Cumulative senior dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock will accrue at the annual rate of 2.5%, but will be paid only when and if declared by the board of directors of Lumentum Inc. Our ability to make payments to holders of the Series A Preferred Stock (\"Series A Holders\") will depend on Lumentum Inc.'s ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. Lumentum Inc.'s ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that we cannot control. The payment of this dividend will reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution by Lumentum Inc. to us for further distribution to our common stockholders or for other corporate purposes. If Lumentum Inc. is in arrears on the payment of dividends to the Series A Holders, (i) Lumentum Inc. will not be able to pay any dividends to us, subject to certain exceptions, and (ii) we will not be able to make any distribution on or repurchase of our common stock.. Certain provisions in our charter and Delaware corporate law could hinder a takeover attempt.. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the DGCL which prohibits us, under some circumstances, from engaging in business combinations with some stockholders for a specified period of time without the approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding voting stock. Such provisions could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us, even if such events could be beneficial, in the short-term, to the interests of our stockholders. In addition, such provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions providing for the limitations of liability and indemnification of our directors and officers, allowing vacancies on our board of directors to be filled by the vote of a majority of the remaining directors, granting our board of directors the authority to establish additional series of preferred stock and to designate the rights, preferences and privileges of such shares (commonly known as \"blank check preferred\") and providing that our stockholders can take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders, which may only be called by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer or the board of directors. These provisions may also have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying changes in control or changes in our management.. 28. Table of Contents. Our bylaws designate Delaware courts as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could discourage lawsuits against us or our directors and officers.. Our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to an alternative forum, the state or federal courts of Delaware are the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; any action asserting breach of fiduciary duty, or other wrongdoing, by our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders; any action asserting a claim against Lumentum pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law or our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; any action asserting a claim against Lumentum governed by the internal affairs doctrine; or any action to interpret, apply, enforce or determine the validity of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws. This exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with us or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against us or our directors and officers.. Alternatively, if a court outside of Delaware were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Servicing our 2024 Notes and the Term Loan Facilities may require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow or the ability to raise the funds necessary to satisfy our obligations under the 2024 Notes or the Term Loan Facilities, and our current and future indebtedness may limit our operating flexibility or otherwise affect our business.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including the 2024 Notes and, following the closing of the Term Loan Facilities, which is expected to occur substantially concurrently with the closing of the Merger, the Term Loan Facilities, or to make cash payments in connection with any conversion of 2024 Notes or upon any fundamental change if note holders require us to repurchase their notes for cash, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our indebtedness and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring indebtedness or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. In addition, our existing and future indebtedness could have important consequences to our stockholders and significant effects on our business. For example, it could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations, including the 2024 Notes and the Term Loan Facilities;. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and other general corporate purposes;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;. • restrict us from exploiting business opportunities;. • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and. • limit our availability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other general purposes.. Transactions relating to our 2024 Notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, or may otherwise depress the price of our common stock.. If the 2024 Notes are converted by holders, we have the ability under the indenture for the 2024 Notes to deliver cash, equity, common stock, or any combination of cash or common stock, at our election upon conversion of the 2024 Notes.  If we elect to deliver common stock upon conversion of the 2024 Notes, it would dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, certain holders of the 2024 Notes may engage in short selling to hedge their position in the 2024 Notes. Anticipated future conversions of such 2024 Notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock.. 29. Table of Contents. The terms of the definitive documents governing the Term Loan Facilities will restrict our operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions.. The definitive documents governing the Term Loan Facilities provided for in the Commitment Letter will contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit its ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on the ability to: incur indebtedness, grant liens, undergo certain fundamental changes, dispose of assets, make investments, enter into transactions with affiliates, and make certain restricted payments, in each case subject to limitations and exceptions to be set forth in the definitive documentation for the Term Loan Facilities.. The definitive documentation governing the Term Loan Facilities will also contain customary events of default that include, among other things, certain payment defaults, covenant defaults, cross-defaults to other indebtedness, change of control defaults, judgment defaults, and bankruptcy and insolvency defaults.  Such events of defaults may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. Furthermore, if we are unable to repay the amounts due and payable under the credit agreements, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness which could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. In the event our lenders accelerated the repayment of the borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. Any acceleration of amounts due under the credit agreements would likely have a material adverse effect on us. As a result of these restrictions, we may be: limited in how we conduct business; unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities."
