[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The reader should carefully review and consider the risk factors discussed below. Any and all of these risk factors could materially affect the Company's business, financial condition, future results of operations or cash flows and possibly lead to a decline in Lydall's stock price. The risks, uncertainties and other factors described below constitute all material risk factors known to management as of the date of this report.. Global political or economic changes may negatively impact Lydall's business - Ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions could adversely affect demand for the Company's products and impact profitability. Among other factors, political conflicts or changes, disruptions in the global credit and financial markets, including diminished liquidity and credit availability, changes in international trade agreements, including tariffs regulation and trade restrictions, swings in consumer confidence and spending, unstable economic growth and fluctuations in unemployment rates causing economic instability could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These factors also make it difficult to accurately forecast and plan future business activities.. The Company's foreign and export sales were 54.2% of net sales in 2017, 46.9% in 2016, and 44.2% in 2015. If the global economy were to take a significant downturn, depending on the length, duration and severity of such downturn, the Company's business and financial statements could be adversely affected.. The Company's Thermal/Acoustical Metals and Thermal/Acoustical Fibers segments are tied primarily to general economic and automotive industry conditions - The Company's Thermal/Acoustical Metals and Thermal/Acoustical Fibers segments are suppliers in the automotive market.  Sales to the automotive market accounted for 48.3% of the Company's net sales in 2017, 56.2% in 2016, and 56.6% in 2015. The segments' net sales from products manufactured in North America were 72.3%, 73.1%, and 70.6% in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively, with the remainder manufactured in Europe and Asia. These segments are closely tied to general economic and automotive industry conditions as demand for vehicles depends largely on the strength of the economy, employment levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability and cost of credit,  the cost of fuel, legislative and regulatory oversight and trade agreements. These factors have had, and could continue to have, a substantial impact on these segments. Adverse developments could reduce demand for new vehicles, causing Lydall's customers to reduce their vehicle production in North America, Europe and Asia and, as a result, demand for Company products would be adversely affected.. The Company's quarterly operating results may fluctuate; as a result, the Company may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of research analysts or investors, which could cause Lydall's stock price to decline - The Company's quarterly results are subject to significant fluctuations. Operating results have fluctuated as a result of many factors, including size and timing of orders and shipments, loss of significant customers, product mix, reductions in customer pricing, customer or company shut-downs, technological change, operational efficiencies and inefficiencies, competition, changes in tax laws and  deferred tax asset valuation allowances, strategic initiatives, severance and recruiting charges, asset impairment, penalties or fines and general economic conditions. In addition, lower revenues may cause asset utilization to decrease, resulting in the under absorption of the Company's fixed costs, which could negatively impact gross margins. Additionally, the Company's gross margins vary among its product groups and have fluctuated from quarter to quarter as a result of shifts in product mix. Any and all of these factors could affect the Company's business, financial condition, future results of operations or cash flows and possibly lead to a decline in Lydall's stock price.. Implementation of the Company's strategic initiatives may not be successful - As part of Lydall's business strategy, the Company continues to review various strategic and business opportunities to grow the business and to assess the profitability and growth potential for each of its existing businesses. The Company may incur significant professional services expenses associated with the review and potential implementation of strategic business opportunities. The Company cannot predict with certainty whether any recent or future strategic transactions will be beneficial to the Company. Among other things, future performance could be impacted by the Company's ability to:. • Identify and effectively complete strategic transactions;. • Obtain adequate financing to fund strategic initiatives;. 5. • Successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses that involve numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in the integration of acquired operations, diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, managing assets in multiple geographic regions and potential loss of key employees and key customers of acquired operations;. • Improve operating margins through its Lean Six Sigma initiatives which are intended to improve processes and work flow, improve customer service, reduce costs and leverage synergies across the Company; and. • Successfully invest and deploy capital investments to support our business and commitments to our customers.. In order to meet its strategic objectives, the Company may also divest assets and/or businesses.  Successfully executing such a strategy depends on various factors, including effectively transferring assets, liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to any purchaser, identifying and separating the intellectual property to be divested from the intellectual property that the Company wishes to retain, reducing or eliminating fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets or business, and collecting the proceeds from any divestitures.. The Company may not have adequate cash to fund its operating requirements - The principal source of the Company's liquidity is operating cash flows. Other significant factors that affect the overall management of liquidity include capital expenditures, investments in businesses, acquisitions, income tax payments, pension funding, share repurchases, outcomes of contingencies and availability of lines of credit and long-term financing. The Company's liquidity can be impacted by the Company's ability to:. • Manage working capital and the level of future profitability. The consolidated cash balance is impacted by capital equipment and inventory investments that may be made in response to changing market conditions;. • Satisfy covenants and other obligations under its existing credit facility, which could limit or prohibit Lydall's ability to borrow funds.  Additionally, these debt covenants and other obligations could limit the Company's ability to make acquisitions, incur additional debt, make investments, or consummate asset sales and obtain additional financing from other sources.. Incurring a substantial amount of indebtedness could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial health and make it more difficult for Lydall to obtain additional financing in the future - Incurring additional debt to fund the acquisitions' purchase price may have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and may limit Lydall's ability to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, future acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes.  Additionally, the Company may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to meet the additional debt obligations. Any default under the Amended Credit Facility would likely result in the acceleration of the repayment obligations to our lenders.. The Company is subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws, which impose restrictions on the Company and violations of which may carry substantial fines and penalties and result in criminal sanctions - The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, including anti-bribery legislation in the United Kingdom, generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other commercial advantage. The Company's policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, violations of which often carry substantial fines and penalties and could result in criminal sanctions against the Company, Lydall's officers or employees. The Company cannot assure that its internal control policies and procedures always will protect it from reckless or other inappropriate acts committed by the Company's affiliates, employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could have a material adverse effect on Lydall's business, or financial statements and could possibly lead to a decline in Lydall's stock price.. Raw material pricing, supply issues, and disruptions in transportation networks could affect all of the Company's businesses - The Thermal/Acoustical Metals segment uses aluminum and other metals to manufacture most of its automotive heat shields. The Thermal/Acoustical Fibers and Technical Nonwovens segments use various petroleum-derivative fibers in manufacturing products, and the Performance Materials segment uses various glass-derivative fibers in manufacturing products.  If the prices and duties of these raw materials, or any other raw materials used in the Company's businesses increase, the Company may not have the ability to pass incremental cost increases on to its customers. In addition, an interruption in the ability of the Company to source such materials could negatively impact operations and sales.. 6. Impairment of the Company's goodwill or other long-lived assets has required, and may in the future require recording significant charges to earnings - The Company reviews its long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.  Goodwill is also tested by the Company for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year.  Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of goodwill or other long-lived assets may not be recoverable, include, but are not limited to, a decline in the Company's stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates.. Volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, actuarial assumptions and other factors could substantially increase the Company's costs and funding for its domestic defined benefit pension plan - The Company's domestic defined benefit pension plan is funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of securities. Changes in interest rates, mortality rates, investment returns, and the market value of plan assets may affect the funded status and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of such plan. A significant increase in benefit plan liabilities or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on the Company's financial statements.. The Company is involved in certain legal proceedings and may become involved in future legal proceedings all of which could give rise to liability - The Company is involved in legal proceedings that, from time to time, may be material. These proceedings may include, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes, intellectual property matters, personal injury claims, stockholder claims, and employment matters. No assurances can be given that such proceedings and claims will not have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial statements.. The Company is subject to legal and compliance risks and oversight on a global basis and developments in these risks and related matters could have a material adverse effect on Lydall's consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity - The Company is subject to a variety of laws and regulations that govern our business both in the United States and internationally, including antitrust laws. Violations of these laws and regulations can result in significant fines, penalties or other damages being imposed by regulatory authorities.  Expenses and fines arising out of or related to these investigations and related claims can also be significant. Despite meaningful measures that we undertake to seek to ensure lawful conduct, which include training and internal control policies, these measures may not always prevent our employees or agents from violating the laws and regulations. As a result, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes or other remedial actions.  For example, in July 2017, Lydall Gerhardi entered into a formal settlement agreement with the German Cartel Office and paid a settlement amount in August 2017 of \2003.3 million (approximately $3.9 million U.S. Dollars) in connection the conclusion of an investigation relating to violations of German anti-trust laws by and among certain European automotive heat shield manufacturers, including Lydall Gerhardi.  Violations of laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and result in a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.. Changes in Accounting Standards - The Company's accounting and financial reporting policies conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"U.S. GAAP\"), which are periodically revised and/or expanded. The application of accounting principles is also subject to varying interpretations over time.  Accordingly, the Company is required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or comply with revised interpretations that are issued from time to time by various parties, including accounting standard setters and those who interpret the standards, such as the FASB and the SEC.  Such new financial accounting standards may change the financial accounting or reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (\"ASU\") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which provides for comprehensive changes in revenue recognition and supersedes nearly all existing U.S. GAAP, and is applicable to the Company beginning in Q1 2018.  In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, which is a wide-ranging change to lease accounting that is applicable to the Company beginning in 2019.  Implementing changes required by new standards, requirements or laws require interpretation of rules and development of new accounting policies and internal controls that if not appropriately applied could result in financial statement errors and deficiencies in internal control.. Changes in tax rates and exposure to additional income tax liabilities - The Company is subject to risks with respect to changes in tax law and rates, changes in rules related to accounting for income taxes, or adverse outcomes from tax audits that are in process or future tax audits in various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Reform Act\"). The changes included in the Tax Reform Act are broad and complex.  The final transition impacts of the Tax Reform Act may differ from the estimates provided elsewhere in this report, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the Tax Reform Act, any legislative action to address questions. 7. that arise because of the Tax Reform Act, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Reform Act, or any updates or changes to estimates the company has utilized to calculate the transition impacts, including impacts from changes to current year earnings estimates and foreign exchange rates of foreign subsidiaries.  In addition, certain jurisdictions in which the Company operates have statutory rates greater than or less than the United States statutory rate. Changes in the mix and source of earnings between jurisdictions could have a significant impact on the Company's overall effective tax rate.. Realization of deferred tax assets is not assured - The Company maintains valuation allowances against certain deferred tax assets where realization is not reasonably assured. The Company evaluates the likelihood of the realization of all deferred tax assets and reduces the carrying amount to the extent it believes a portion will not be realized. Changes in these assessments can result in an increase or reduction to valuation allowances on deferred tax assets and could have a significant impact on the Company's overall effective tax rate.. The Company's future success depends upon its ability to continue to innovate, improve its existing products, develop and market new products, and identify and enter new markets - Improved performance and growth are partially dependent on improvements to existing products and new product introductions planned for the future. Delays in improving or developing products and long customer qualification cycles may impact the success of new product programs. The degree of success of new product programs could impact the Company's future results.  Developments by other companies of new or improved products, processes or technologies may make our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive and may negatively impact our net sales. Accordingly, our ability to compete is in part dependent on our ability to continually offer enhanced and improved products that meet the changing requirements of our customers.  If we fail to develop new products or enhance existing products, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. The Company's foreign operations expose it to business, economic, political, legal, regulatory and other risks - The Company believes that in order to be competitive and grow its businesses, it needs to maintain significant foreign operations. Foreign sales were $322.2 million, $212.5 million and $179.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.  Foreign operations are subject to inherent risks including political and economic conditions in various countries, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements (including tariff regulations and trade restrictions), longer accounts receivable collection cycles and potentially adverse tax consequences. The Company has little control over most of these risks and may be unable to anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions and, therefore, unable to alter its business practices in time to avoid the adverse effect of any of these possible changes.. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and limitations on repatriation of earnings may affect the Company's results of operations - The Company's financial results are exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuations and an increased proportion of its assets, liabilities and expenses are denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies.  During 2017 and 2016, there was significant volatility in foreign currencies that impacted the Company, primarily the British Pound Sterling, Euro, Chinese Yuan and Canadian Dollar. The Company's foreign and domestic operations seek to limit foreign currency exchange transaction risk by completing transactions in functional currencies whenever practical or through the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts when deemed appropriate. If the Company does not successfully hedge its currency exposure, changes in the rate of exchange between these currencies and the U.S. dollar may negatively impact the Company.  Translation of the results of operations and financial condition of its foreign operations into U.S. dollars may be affected by exchange rate fluctuations. Additionally, limitations on the repatriation of earnings, including imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances, may limit or negatively impact the Company's ability to redeploy or distribute cash.  The Company receives a material portion of its revenue from foreign operations. Foreign operations generated approximately 46.1%, 37.5% and 34.2% of total net sales in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.. The Company's manufacturing processes are subject to inherent risk - The Company operates a number of manufacturing facilities and relies upon an effective workforce and properly performing machinery and equipment. The workforce may experience a relatively high turnover rate, causing inefficiencies associated with retraining and rehiring. The equipment and systems necessary for such operations may break down, perform poorly or fail, and possibly cause higher manufacturing costs. Manufacturing processes affect the Company's ability to deliver quality products on a timely basis, and delays in delivering products to customers could result in the Company incurring penalties from customers.. 8. Increases in energy pricing can affect all of the Company's businesses - Higher energy costs at the Company's manufacturing plants or higher energy costs passed on from the Company's vendors could impact the Company's profitability.. The Company's resources are limited and may impair its ability to capitalize on changes in technology, competition and pricing  - The industries in which the Company sells its products are highly competitive and many of the competitors are affiliated with entities that are substantially larger and that have greater financial, technical and marketing resources. The Company's more limited resources and relatively diverse product mix may limit or impair its ability to capitalize on changes in technology, competition and pricing.. The Company's products may fail to perform as expected, subjecting it to warranty or other claims from its customers -If such failure results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury and/or property damage or other losses, the Company may be subject to product liability lawsuits, U.S. Food and Drug Administration product recalls and other claims, any of which could have a material adverse impact on results of operations and cash flows.. If the Company does not retain its key employees, the Company's ability to execute its business strategy could be adversely affected - The Company's success, in part, depends on key managerial, engineering, sales and marketing and technical personnel and its ability to continue to attract and retain additional personnel. The loss of certain key personnel could have a material, adverse effect upon the Company's business and results of operations. There is no assurance that the Company can retain its key employees or that it can attract competent and effective new or replacement personnel in the future.. The Company's current reserve levels may not be adequate to cover potential exposures - Estimates and assumptions may affect the reserves that the Company has established to cover uncollectible accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, income tax valuation and fair market value write downs of certain assets and various liabilities. Actual results could differ from those estimates.. The Company is subject to environmental laws and regulations that could increase its expense and affect operating results - The Company is subject to federal, state, local, and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that affect operations. New and changing environmental laws and regulations may impact the products manufactured and sold to customers. In order to maintain compliance with such laws and regulations, the Company must devote significant resources and maintain and administer adequate policies, procedures and oversight. Should the Company fail to do these things, it could be negatively impacted by lower net sales, fines, legal costs, and clean-up requirements.. The Company may incur liabilities under various government statutes for the investigation and cleanup of contaminants previously released into the environment.  We do not anticipate that compliance with current provisions relating to the protection of the environment or that any payments we may be required to make for cleanup liabilities will have a material adverse effect upon our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. Current and on-going environmental matters are further addressed in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The Company may be unable to adequately protect its intellectual property, which may limit its ability to compete effectively - The Company owns intellectual property, including patents and trademarks, which play an important role in helping the Company to maintain its competitive position in a number of markets. The Company is subject to risks with respect to (i) changes in the intellectual property landscape of markets in which it competes; (ii) the potential assertion of intellectual property-related claims against the Company; (iii) the failure to maximize or successfully assert its intellectual property rights; and (iv) significant technological developments by others.. Disruptions may occur to the Company's operations relating to information technology - The capacity, reliability and security of the Company's information technology (\"IT\") hardware and software infrastructure and the ability to expand and update this infrastructure in response to the Company's changing needs are important to the operation of the businesses.  Also, any inadequacy, interruption, loss of data, integration failure or security failure of the Company's IT technology could harm its ability to effectively operate its business, which could adversely impact the Company's results of operations and cash flows.. Increased cybersecurity requirements, vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to the Company's systems, networks, and data - Increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats. 9. and more sophisticated and targeted cyber-related attacks pose a risk to the security of the Company's systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the Company's data. While the Company attempts to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, monitoring and testing, and maintenance of protective systems and contingency plans, the Company remains vulnerable to additional known or unknown threats. The Company also may have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of Lydall's businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls. Despite efforts made by the Company to protect sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, the Company may be vulnerable to security breaches, ransomware, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming errors, employee errors and/or malfeasance that could potentially lead to the compromising  or loss of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information and could adversely impact the Company's results of operations and cash flows. Although the Company carries cybersecurity insurance, in the event of a cyber incident, that insurance may not be extensive enough or adequate in scope of coverage or amount to cover damages the Company may incur.  In addition, a cyber-related attack could result in other negative consequences, including loss of information, damage to the Company's reputation or competitiveness, remediation or increased protection costs, litigation or regulatory action.. The Company could be subject to work stoppages or other business interruptions as a result of its unionized work force - A portion of the Company's hourly employees are represented by various union locals and covered by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements contain various expiration dates and must be renegotiated upon expiration. Specifically, three union contracts expiring on September 30, 2020 represent approximately 50 employees in the United States. If the Company is unable to negotiate any of its collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms prior to expiration, the Company could experience disruptions in its operations which could have a material adverse effect on operations.. The Company could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist stockholders - Over the last few years, proxy contests and other forms of stockholder activism have been directed against numerous public companies.  The Company could become engaged in a solicitation, or proxy contest, or experience other stockholder activism, in the future.  Activist stockholders may advocate for certain governance and strategic changes at the Company.  In the event of stockholder activism, particularly with respect to matters which our Board of Directors, in exercising their fiduciary duties, disagree with or have determined not to pursue, our business could be adversely affected because responding to actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management, and perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of potential business opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, business partners and customers.. The Company may be unable to realize expected benefits from cost reduction, restructuring and consolidation efforts and profitability may be hurt or business otherwise might be adversely affected - In order to operate more efficiently and control costs, the Company announces from time to time restructuring or consolidation plans, which include workforce reductions as well as facility consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives. These plans are intended to generate operating expense savings through direct cost and indirect overhead expense reductions as well as other savings. The Company may undertake workforce reductions or restructuring actions in the future. These types of cost reduction and restructuring activities are complex. If the Company does not successfully manage current restructuring activities, or any other restructuring activities that it may undertake in the future, expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted.  Risks associated with these actions and other workforce management issues include unforeseen delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions, additional unexpected costs, adverse effects on employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or may otherwise harm the business, which could have a material adverse effect on competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.. 10"
