[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our future results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and the market price for our securities are subject to numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control.  The following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions relevant to our business includes factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results.  Other factors beyond those listed below, including factors unknown to us and factors known to us which we have not currently determined to be material, could also adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, prospects and cash flows.  Also see \"Special Note of Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements\" above.. 10. Homebuilding Market and Economic Risks. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and affected by changes in general economic, real estate and other business conditions that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Certain economic, real estate and other business conditions that have significant effects on the homebuilding industry include:. • employment levels and job and personal income growth;. • availability and pricing of financing for homebuyers;. • short and long-term interest rates;. • overall consumer confidence and the confidence of potential homebuyers in particular;. • demographic trends;. • changes in energy prices;. • housing demand from population growth, household formation and other demographic changes, among other factors;. • U.S. and global financial system and credit market stability;. • private party and governmental residential consumer mortgage loan programs, and federal and state regulation of lending and appraisal practices;. • federal and state personal income tax rates and provisions, including provisions for the deduction of residential consumer mortgage loan interest payments and other expenses;. • the supply of and prices for available new or existing homes (including lender-owned homes acquired through foreclosures and short sales) and other housing alternatives, such as apartments and other residential rental property;. • homebuyer interest in our current or new product designs and community locations, and general consumer interest in purchasing a home compared to choosing other housing alternatives; and. • real estate taxes.. These above conditions, among others, are complex and interrelated.  Adverse changes in such business conditions may have a significant negative impact on our business.  The negative impact may be national in scope but may also negatively affect some of the regions or markets in which we operate more than others.  When such adverse conditions affect any of our larger markets, those conditions could have a proportionately greater impact on us than on some other homebuilding companies.  We cannot predict their occurrence or severity, nor can we provide assurance that our strategic responses to their impacts would be successful.. Potential customers may be less willing or able to buy our homes if any of these conditions have a negative impact on the homebuilding industry.  In the future, our pricing strategies may be limited by market conditions.  We may be unable to change the mix of our home offerings, reduce the costs of the homes we build or offer more affordable homes to maintain our gross margins or satisfactorily address changing market conditions in other ways.  In addition, cancellations of home sales contracts in backlog may increase as homebuyers choose to not honor their contracts.. Our financial services business is closely related to our homebuilding business, as it originates mortgage loans principally on behalf of purchasers of the homes we build.  A decrease in the demand for our homes because of the existence of any of the foregoing conditions could also adversely affect the financial results of this segment of our business.. Increased competition levels in the homebuilding and mortgage lending industries could result in a reduction in our new contracts and homes delivered, along with decreases in the average sales prices of sold and delivered homes and/or decreased mortgage originations, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations.. The homebuilding industry is fragmented and highly competitive.  We compete with numerous public and private homebuilders, including some that are substantially larger than us and may have greater financial resources than we do.  We also compete with community developers and land development companies, some of which are also homebuilders or affiliates of homebuilders.  Homebuilders compete for customers, land, building materials, subcontractor labor and financing.  Competition for home orders primarily is based upon home sales price, location of property, home style, financing available to prospective homebuyers, quality of homes built, customer service and general reputation in the community, and may vary by market, sub-market and even by community.  Additionally, competition within the homebuilding industry can be impacted by an excess supply of new and existing homes available for sale resulting from a number of factors including, among other things, increases in unsold started homes available for sale and increases in home foreclosures.  Increased competition may cause us to decrease our home sales prices and/or increase home sales incentives in an effort to generate new home sales and maintain homes in backlog until they close.  Increased competition can also result in us selling fewer homes or experiencing a higher number of cancellations by homebuyers.  These competitive pressures may negatively impact our future financial and operating results.. Through our financial services operations, we also compete with numerous banks and other mortgage bankers and brokers, some of which are larger than us and may have greater financial resources than we do.  Competitive factors that affect our consumer. 11. services operations include pricing, mortgage loan terms, underwriting criteria and customer service.  To the extent that we are unable to adequately compete with other companies that originate mortgage loans, the results of operations from our mortgage operations may be negatively impacted.. A reduction in the availability of mortgage financing or a significant increase in mortgage interest rates or down payment requirements could adversely affect our business.. Any reduction in the availability of the financing provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage availability and our sales of new homes and origination of mortgage loans.. FHA and VA mortgage financing support continues to be an important factor in marketing our homes.  Any increases in down payment requirements, lower maximum loan amounts, or limitations or restrictions on the availability of FHA and VA financing support could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage availability and our sales of new homes and origination of mortgage loans.. Even if potential customers do not need financing, changes in the availability of mortgage products may make it harder for them to sell their current homes to potential buyers who need financing, which may lead to lower demand for new homes.. While mortgage interest rates increased modestly in 2017, they currently remain near historical lows.  The Federal Reserve  raised its benchmark rate several times during 2017 and additional increases in interest rates are likely, and these (or further) increases could affect the costs of owning a home and could reduce the demand for our homes.. Many of our homebuyers obtain financing for their home purchases from M/I Financial.  If, due to the factors discussed above, M/I Financial is limited from making or unable to make loan products available to our homebuyers, our home sales and our homebuilding and financial services results of operations may be adversely affected.. If land is not available at reasonable prices or terms, our homes sales revenue and results of operations could be negatively impacted and/or we could be required to scale back our operations in a given market.. Our operations depend on our ability to obtain land for the development of our communities at reasonable prices and with terms that meet our underwriting criteria.  Our ability to obtain land for new communities may be adversely affected by changes in the general availability of land, the willingness of land sellers to sell land at reasonable prices, competition for available land, availability of financing to acquire land, zoning, regulations that limit housing density and other market conditions.  If the supply of land, and especially developed lots, appropriate for development of communities is limited because of these factors, or for any other reason, the number of homes that we build and sell may decline.  To the extent that we are unable to timely purchase land or enter into new contracts for the purchase of land at reasonable prices, due to the lag between the time we acquire land and the time we begin selling homes, our revenue and results of operations could be negatively impacted and/or we could be required to scale back our operations in a given market.. Our land investment exposes us to significant risks, including potential impairment charges, that could negatively impact our profits if the market value of our inventory declines.. We must anticipate demand for new homes several years prior to homes being sold to homeowners.  There are significant risks inherent in controlling or purchasing land, especially as the demand for new homes fluctuates and land purchases become more competitive, as has recently been the case, which can increase the costs of land.  There is often a significant lag time between when we acquire land for development and when we sell homes in neighborhoods we have planned, developed and constructed.  The value of undeveloped land, building lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions.  In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant, and fluctuations in value can reduce profits.  Economic conditions could require that we sell homes or land at a loss, or hold land in inventory longer than planned, which could significantly impact our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock performance.  Additionally, if conditions in the homebuilding industry decline in the future, we may be required to evaluate our inventory for potential impairment, which may result in additional valuation adjustments, which could be significant and could negatively impact our financial results and condition.  We cannot make any assurances that the measures we employ to manage inventory risks and costs will be successful.. Supply shortages and risks related to the demand for skilled labor and building materials could increase costs and delay deliveries.. The residential construction industry experiences labor and material shortages and risks from time to time, including: work stoppages; labor disputes; shortages in qualified subcontractors and construction personnel; lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services; our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured; and delays in availability, or fluctuations in prices, of building materials.  These labor and material shortages and risks can be more severe during periods of strong demand for housing or during periods in which the markets where we operate experience natural disasters. 12. that have a significant impact on existing residential and commercial structures.  Any of these circumstances could delay the start or completion of our communities, increase the cost of developing one or more of our communities and increase the construction cost of our homes.  To the extent that market conditions prevent the recovery of increased costs, including, among other things, subcontracted labor, developed lots, building materials, and other resources, through higher sales prices, our gross margins from home sales and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Increased costs of lumber, framing, concrete, steel and other building materials could increase our construction costs.  We generally are unable to pass on increases in construction costs to customers who have already entered into sales contracts, as those sales contracts generally fix the price of the homes at the time the contracts are signed, which may occur before construction begins.  Sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our gross margins from home sales, particularly if pricing competition restricts our ability to pass on any additional costs of materials or labor, thereby decreasing our gross margins from home sales.. We depend on the continued availability of and satisfactory performance of subcontracted labor for the construction of our homes and to provide related materials.  As the demand for housing has increased, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, modest skilled labor and material shortages in certain of our markets as the supply chain adjusts to uneven industry growth.  The cost of labor may also be adversely affected by shortages of qualified subcontractors and construction personnel, changes in laws and regulations relating to union activity and changes in immigration laws and trends in labor migration.  We cannot provide any assurance that there will be a sufficient supply of materials or a sufficient supply of, or satisfactory performance by, these unaffiliated third-party subcontractors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Tax law changes could make home ownership more expensive and/or less attractive.. Prior to the enactment of the Tax Act , which was signed into law in December 2017, significant expenses of owning a home, including residential consumer mortgage loan interest costs and real estate taxes, generally were deductible expenses for the purpose of calculating an individual's federal, and in some cases state, taxable income, subject to various limitations.  The Tax Act establishes new limits on the federal tax deductions individual taxpayers may take on mortgage loan interest payments and on state and local taxes, including property taxes.  Through the end of 2025, under the Tax Act, the annual deduction for property taxes and state and local income or sales taxes generally is limited to $10,000.  Furthermore, through the end of 2025, the deduction for mortgage interest is only available with respect to acquisition indebtedness that does not exceed $750,000.  The Tax Act also raises the standard deduction to help fully or partially offset these new limits.  These changes could, however,  reduce the actual or perceived affordability of homeownership, and therefore the demand for homes, and/or have a moderating impact on home sales prices, especially in areas with relatively high housing prices and/or high state and local income taxes and real estate taxes.  In addition, if the federal government further changes, or a state government changes, its income tax laws by eliminating or substantially reducing the income tax benefits associated with homeownership, the after-tax cost of owning a home could measurably increase.  Any increases in personal income tax rates and/or tax deduction limits or restrictions enacted at the federal or state levels, including those enacted under the Tax Act, could adversely impact demand for and/or selling prices of new homes, including our homes, and the effect on our consolidated financial statements could be adverse and material.. We may not be able to offset the impact of inflation through price increases.. Inflation can have a long-term impact on us because if the costs of land, materials and labor increase, we would need to attempt to increase the sale prices of homes to maintain satisfactory margins.  In a highly inflationary environment, we may be precluded from raising home prices enough to keep pace with the rate of inflation, which could reduce our profit margins.  In addition, significant inflation is often accompanied by higher interest rates, which have a negative impact on demand for our homes.  Moreover, with inflation, the costs of capital will likely increase and the purchasing power of our cash resources can decline.  Although the rate of inflation has been low for the last several years, we have recently been experiencing modest increases in the prices of labor and materials that exceed the rate of inflation, and some economists predict that government spending programs and other factors could lead to significant inflation in the future.. Our limited geographic diversification could adversely affect us if the demand for new homes in our markets declines.. We have operations in Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Minnesota, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, Florida and Texas.  Our limited geographic diversification could adversely impact us if the demand for new homes or the level of homebuilding activity in our current markets declines, since there may not be a balancing opportunity in a stronger market in other geographic regions.. 13. Changes in energy prices may have an adverse effect on the economies in certain markets we operate in and our cost of building homes.. The economies of some of the markets in which we operate are impacted by the health of the energy industry.  To the extent that energy prices decline, the economies of certain of our markets may be negatively impacted which could have a material adverse effect on our business.  Furthermore, the pricing offered by our suppliers and subcontractors can be adversely affected by increases in various energy costs resulting in a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Operational Risks. We may not be successful in integrating acquisitions or implementing our growth strategies or in achieving the benefits we expect from such acquisitions and strategies.. We may in the future consider growth or expansion of our operations in our current markets or in other areas of the country, whether through strategic acquisitions of homebuilding companies or otherwise.  The magnitude, timing and nature of any future expansion will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to identify suitable additional markets and/or acquisition candidates, the negotiation of acceptable terms, our financial capabilities and general economic and business conditions.  Our expansion into new or existing markets, whether through acquisition or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and/or profitability, and any future acquisitions could result in the dilution of existing shareholders if we issue our common shares as consideration.  Acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired company's operations, the incurrence of unanticipated liabilities or expenses, the risk of impairing inventory and other assets related to the acquisition, the diversion of management's attention and resources from other business concerns, risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company.  In addition, we may not be able to improve our earnings as a result of acquisitions, and our failure to successfully identify and manage future acquisitions could have an adverse impact on our operating results.. We have financial needs that we meet through the capital markets, including the debt and secondary mortgage markets, and disruptions in these markets could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows.. We have financial needs that we meet through the capital markets, including the debt and secondary mortgage markets.  Our requirements for additional capital, whether to finance operations or to service or refinance our existing indebtedness, fluctuate as market conditions and our financial performance and operations change.  We cannot provide assurances that we will maintain cash reserves and generate sufficient cash flow from operations in an amount to enable us to service our debt or to fund other liquidity needs.. The availability of additional capital, whether from private capital sources or the public capital markets, fluctuates as our financial condition and general market conditions change.  There may be times when the private capital markets and the public debt or equity markets lack sufficient liquidity or when our securities cannot be sold at attractive prices, in which case we would not be able to access capital from these sources.  In addition, a weakening of our financial condition or deterioration in our credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary funds.  Even if financing is available, it could be costly or have other adverse consequences.. There are a limited number of third-party purchasers of mortgage loans originated by our financial services operations.  The exit of third-party purchasers of mortgage loans from the business, reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities in the secondary mortgage markets and increased investor yield requirements for those loans and securities may have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position and/or cash flows.. The mortgage warehousing agreement of our financial services segment will expire in June 2018.. M/I Financial is party to a $125 million secured mortgage warehousing agreement, as amended, among M/I Financial, the lenders party thereto and the administrative agent (the \"MIF Mortgage Warehousing Agreement\").  M/I Financial uses the MIF Mortgage Warehousing Agreement to finance eligible residential mortgage loans originated by M/I Financial.  The MIF Mortgage Warehousing Agreement will expire on June 22, 2018.  If we are unable to renew or replace the MIF Mortgage Warehousing Agreement when it matures, the activities of our financial services segment could be seriously impeded and our home sales and our homebuilding and financial services results of operations may be adversely affected.. Reduced numbers of home sales may force us to absorb additional carrying costs.. We incur many costs even before we begin to build homes in a community.  These include costs of preparing land and installing roads, sewage and other utilities, as well as taxes and other costs related to ownership of the land on which we plan to build homes.  Reducing the rate at which we build homes extends the length of time it takes us to recover these additional costs.  Also, we. 14. frequently enter into contracts to purchase land and make deposits that may be forfeited if we do not fulfill our purchase obligation within specified periods.. If our ability to resell mortgages to investors is impaired, we may be required to broker loans.. M/I Financial sells a portion of the loans originated on a servicing released, non-recourse basis, although M/I Financial remains liable for certain limited representations and warranties related to loan sales and for repurchase obligations in certain limited circumstances.  If M/I Financial is unable to sell to viable purchasers in the marketplace, our ability to originate and sell mortgage loans at competitive prices could be limited which would negatively affect our operations and our profitability.  Additionally, if there is a significant decline in the secondary mortgage market, our ability to sell mortgages could be adversely impacted and we would be required to make arrangements with banks or other financial institutions to fund our buyers' closings.  If we became unable to sell loans into the secondary mortgage market or directly to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or issue Ginnie Mae securities, we would have to modify our origination model, which, among other things, could significantly reduce our ability to sell homes.. Mortgage investors could seek to have us buy back loans or compensate them for losses incurred on mortgages we have sold based on claims that we breached our limited representations or warranties.. M/I Financial originates mortgages, primarily for our homebuilding customers.  A portion of the mortgage loans originated are sold on a servicing released, non-recourse basis, although we remain liable for certain limited representations, such as fraud, and warranties related to loan sales.  Accordingly, mortgage investors have in the past and could in the future seek to have us buy back loans or compensate them for losses incurred on mortgages we have sold based on claims that we breached our limited representations or warranties.  There can be no assurance that we will not have significant liabilities in respect of such claims in the future, which could exceed our reserves, or that the impact of such claims on our results of operations will not be material.. Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected if pending or future legal claims against us are not resolved in our favor.. In addition to the legal proceedings related to stucco discussed below, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries have been named as defendants in certain other legal proceedings which are incidental to our business.  While management currently believes that the ultimate resolution of these other legal proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows, such legal proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties.  The Company has recorded a liability to provide for the anticipated costs, including legal defense costs, associated with the resolution of these other legal proceedings.  However, the possibility exists that the costs to resolve these legal proceedings could differ from the recorded estimates and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.. Similarly, if additional legal proceedings are filed against us in the future, including with respect to stucco installation in our Florida communities, the negative outcome of one or more of such legal proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our ability to operate and, if our financial performance declines, we may be unable to maintain compliance with the covenants in the documents governing our indebtedness.. Our $475 million unsecured revolving credit facility dated July 18, 2013, as amended, with M/I Homes, Inc. as borrower and guaranteed by the Company's wholly-owned homebuilding subsidiaries (the \"Credit Facility\"), the indenture governing our 5.625% Senior Notes due 2025 (the \"2025 Senior Notes\") and the indenture governing our 6.75% Senior Notes due 2021 (the \"2021 Senior Notes\") impose restrictions on our operations and activities.  These restrictions and/or our failure to comply with the terms of our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to operate our business.. Under the terms of the Credit Facility, we are required, among other things, to maintain compliance with various covenants, including financial covenants relating to a minimum consolidated tangible net worth requirement, a minimum interest coverage ratio or liquidity requirement, and a maximum leverage ratio.  Failure to comply with these covenants or any of the other restrictions of the Credit Facility, whether because of a decline in our operating performance or otherwise, could result in a default under the Credit Facility.  If a default occurs, the affected lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, which in turn could cause a default under the documents governing any of our other indebtedness that is then outstanding if we are not able to repay such indebtedness from other sources.  If this happens and we are unable to obtain waivers from the required lenders, the lenders could exercise their rights under such documents, including forcing us into bankruptcy or liquidation.. 15. The indenture governing the 2025 Senior Notes and the indenture governing the 2021 Senior Notes also contain covenants that may restrict our ability to operate our business and may prohibit or limit our ability to enhance our operations or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise.  Failure to comply with these covenants or any of the other restrictions or covenants contained in the indenture governing the 2025 Senior Notes and/or the indenture governing the 2021 Senior Notes could result in a default under the applicable indenture, in which case holders of the 2025 Senior Notes and/or the 2021 Senior Notes may be entitled to cause the sums evidenced by such notes to become due immediately.  This acceleration of our obligations under the 2025 Senior Notes and the 2021 Senior Notes could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation and we may be unable to repay those amounts without selling substantial assets, which might be at prices well below the long-term fair values and carrying values of the assets.  Our ability to comply with the foregoing restrictions and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions.. In addition, while the indenture governing our $86.3 million aggregate principal amount of 3.0% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2018 (the \"2018 Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes\") does not contain any financial or operating covenants relating to or restrictions on the payment of dividends, the incurrence of indebtedness or the repurchase or issuance of securities by us or any of our subsidiaries, the indenture does impose certain other requirements on us, such as the requirement to offer to repurchase the 2018 Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes upon a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture.  Our failure to comply with the requirements contained in the indenture governing the 2018 Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes could result in a default under such indenture, in which case holders of the 2018 Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes may be entitled to cause the sums evidenced by such notes to become due immediately.  The acceleration of our obligations under the 2018 Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes could have the same effect as an acceleration of the 2025 Senior Notes or the 2021 Senior Notes described above.. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, and we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness, which could increase the risks created by our indebtedness.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $639.5 million of indebtedness (net of debt issuance costs), excluding issuances of letters of credit, the MIF Mortgage Warehousing Agreement and our $35 million mortgage repurchase agreement with M/I Financial as borrower, as amended and restated on October 30, 2017 (the \"MIF Mortgage Repurchase Facility\"), and we had $426.0 million of remaining availability for borrowings under the Credit Facility.  In addition, under the terms of the Credit Facility, the indentures governing the 2025 Senior Notes, 2021 Senior Notes and the 2018 Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes and the documents governing our other indebtedness, we have the ability, subject to applicable debt covenants, to incur additional indebtedness.  The incurrence of additional indebtedness could magnify other risks related to us and our business.  Our indebtedness and any future indebtedness we may incur could have a significant adverse effect on our future financial condition.. For example:. • a significant portion of our cash flow may be required to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, which could reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes;. • borrowings under the Credit Facility bear, and borrowings under any new facility could bear, interest at floating rates, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of an increase in interest rates;. • the terms of our indebtedness could limit our ability to borrow additional funds or sell assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes;. • our debt level and the various covenants contained in the Credit Facility, the respective indentures governing our 2025 Senior  Notes and 2021 Senior Notes and the documents governing our other indebtedness could place us at a relative competitive disadvantage as compared to some of our competitors; and. • the terms of our indebtedness could prevent us from raising the funds necessary to repurchase all of the 2025 Senior Notes and the 2021 Senior Notes tendered to us upon the occurrence of a change of control or all of the 2018 Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, which, in each case, would constitute a default under the applicable indenture, which in turn could trigger a default under the Credit Facility and the documents governing our other indebtedness.. In the ordinary course of business, we are required to obtain performance bonds, the unavailability of which could adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows.. As is customary in the homebuilding industry, we are often required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance under construction contracts, development agreements and other arrangements.  Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our credit rating, capitalization, working capital, past performance, management expertise and certain external factors, including the overall capacity of the surety market and the underwriting practices of surety bond issuers.  The ability to obtain surety bonds also can be impacted by the willingness of insurance companies to issue performance bonds.  If we were unable to obtain surety bonds when required, our results of operations and/or cash flows could be adversely impacted.. 16. We can be injured by failures of persons who act on our behalf to comply with applicable regulations and guidelines.. There are instances in which subcontractors or others through whom we do business engage in practices that do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines.  When we learn of practices relating to homes we build or financing we provide that do not comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, we actively move to stop the non-complying practices as soon as possible.  However, regardless of the steps we take after we learn of practices that do not comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations, we can in some instances be subject to fines or other governmental penalties, and our reputation can be injured, due to the practices having taken place.. We could be adversely affected by efforts to impose joint employer liability on us for labor law violations committed by our subcontractors.. Our homes are constructed by employees of subcontractors and other parties.  We have limited ability to control what these parties pay their employees or the rules they impose on their employees.  However, various governmental agencies may seek to hold parties like us responsible for violations of wage and hour laws and other labor laws by subcontractors.  A ruling by the National Labor Relations Board that a company, under some circumstances, could be held responsible for labor violations by its contractors has been recently withdrawn.  Although this ruling has been withdrawn, a similar ruling in the future by the National Labor Relations Board or other courts or governmental agencies could make us responsible for labor violations committed by our subcontractors.  Governmental rulings that hold us responsible for labor practices by our subcontractors could create substantial exposures for us under our subcontractor relationships.. Because of the seasonal nature of our business, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate.. We experience noticeable seasonality and quarter-to-quarter variability in homebuilding activity levels.  In general, the number of homes delivered and associated home sales revenue have increased during the third and fourth quarters, compared with the first and second quarters.  We believe that this type of seasonality reflects the historical tendency of homebuyers to purchase new homes in the spring and summer with deliveries scheduled in the fall or winter, as well as the scheduling of construction to accommodate seasonal weather conditions in certain markets.  There can be no assurance that this seasonality pattern will continue to exist in future reporting periods.  In addition, as a result of such variability, our historical performance may not be a meaningful indicator of future results.. Homebuilding is subject to construction defect, product liability and warranty claims that can be significant and costly.. As a homebuilder, we are subject to construction defect, product liability and warranty claims in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the homebuilding industry and can be significant and costly.  We and many of our subcontractors have general liability, property, workers compensation and other business insurance.  This insurance is intended to protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims, subject to certain self-insured retentions, deductibles and other coverage limits. The availability of insurance for construction defects, and the scope of the coverage, are currently limited and the policies that can be obtained are costly and often include exclusions.  There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted or become more costly.  Also, at times we have waived certain provisions of our customary subcontractor insurance requirements, which increases our and our insurers' exposure to claims and increases the possibility that our insurance will not be adequate to protect us for all the costs we incur.. We record warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on a number of factors, including historical experience in our markets, insurance and actuarial assumptions and our judgment with respect to the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes we build.  Because of the high degree of judgment required in determining these liability reserves, our actual future liability could differ significantly from our reserves.  Given the inherent uncertainties, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements and our reserves will be adequate to address all of our construction defect, product liability and warranty claims.  If the costs to resolve these claims exceed our estimates, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.. We have received claims related to stucco installation from homeowners in certain of our communities in our Tampa and Orlando, Florida markets and have been named as a defendant in legal proceedings initiated by certain of such homeowners.  While we have estimated our overall future stucco repair costs, our review of the stucco-related issues in our Florida communities is ongoing. Our estimate of our overall stucco repair costs is based on our judgment, various assumptions and internal data.  Given the inherent uncertainties, we cannot provide assurance that the final costs to resolve these claims will not exceed our accrual and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  Please see Note 1 and Note 8 to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding these stucco claims and our warranty reserves.. 17. Our subcontractors can expose us to warranty and other risks.. We rely on subcontractors to construct our homes, and in many cases, to select and obtain building materials.  Despite our detailed specifications and quality control procedures, in some cases, it may be determined that subcontractors used improper construction processes or defective materials in the construction of our homes.  Although our subcontractors have principal responsibility for defects in the work they do, we have ultimate responsibility to the homebuyers.  When we find these issues, we repair them in accordance with our warranty obligations.  Improper construction processes and defective products widely used in the homebuilding industry can result in the need to perform extensive repairs to large numbers of homes.  The cost of complying with our warranty obligations may be significant if we are unable to recover the cost of repairs from subcontractors, materials suppliers and insurers.. We also can suffer damage to our reputation, and may be exposed to possible liability, if subcontractors fail to comply with applicable laws, including laws involving things that are not within our control.  When we learn about possibly improper practices by subcontractors, we try to cause the subcontractors to discontinue them.  However, we are not always able to do that, and even when we can, it may not avoid claims against us relating to what the subcontractors already did.. Damage to our corporate reputation or brands from negative publicity could adversely affect our business, financial results and/or stock price.. Adverse publicity related to our company, industry, personnel, operations or business performance may cause damage to our corporate reputation or brands and may generate negative sentiment, potentially affecting the performance of our business or our stock price, regardless of its accuracy.  Negative publicity can be disseminated rapidly through digital platforms, including social media, websites, blogs and newsletters.  Customers and other interested parties value readily available information and often act on such information without further investigation and without regard to its accuracy.  The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction, and our success in preserving our brand image depends on our ability to recognize, respond to and effectively manage negative publicity in a rapidly changing environment.  Adverse publicity or unfavorable commentary from any source could damage our reputation, reduce the demand for our homes or negatively impact the morale and performance of our employees, which could adversely affect our business.. Natural disasters and severe weather conditions could delay deliveries, increase costs and decrease demand for homes in affected areas.. Several of our markets, specifically our operations in Florida, North Carolina, Washington, D.C. and Texas, are situated in geographical areas that are regularly impacted by severe storms, including hurricanes, flooding and tornadoes.  For example, in September 2017, Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma caused disruption and delays in our Houston and Florida markets which may continue to impact results in these markets in fiscal 2018.  In addition, our operations in the Midwest can be impacted by severe storms, including tornadoes.  The occurrence of these or other natural disasters can cause delays in the completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our communities, and as a result could materially and adversely impact our results of operations.. We are subject to extensive government regulations, which could restrict our business and cause us to incur significant expense.. The homebuilding industry is subject to numerous local, state, and federal statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations concerning building, zoning, sales, consumer protection, the environment, and similar matters.  This regulation affects construction activities as well as sales activities, mortgage lending activities, land availability and other dealings with home buyers.  These statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations, and any failure to comply therewith, could give rise to additional liabilities or expenditures and have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or business.. We must also obtain licenses, permits and approvals from various governmental authorities in connection with our development activities, and these governmental authorities often have broad discretion in exercising their approval authority.  Municipalities may also restrict or place moratoriums on the availability of utilities, such as water and sewer taps.  In some areas, municipalities may enact growth control initiatives, which will restrict the number of building permits available in a given year.  In addition, we may be required to apply for additional approvals or modify our existing approvals because of changes in local circumstances or applicable law.  If municipalities in which we operate take actions like these, it could have an adverse effect on our business by causing delays, increasing our costs, or limiting our ability to operate in those municipalities.. We incur substantial costs related to compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.  Any increase in legal and regulatory requirements may cause us to incur substantial additional costs or, in some cases, cause us to determine that certain property is not feasible for development.. 18. Information technology failures and data security breaches could harm our business.. We use information technology, digital communications and other computer resources to carry out important operational and marketing activities and to maintain our business records.  Many of these resources are provided to us and/or maintained on our behalf by third-party service providers pursuant to agreements that specify to varying degrees certain security and service level standards.  Our ability to conduct our business may be impaired if these resources, including our website, are compromised, degraded, damaged or fail, whether due to a virus or other harmful circumstance, intentional penetration or disruption of our information technology resources by a third party, natural disaster, hardware or software corruption or failure or error (including a failure of security controls incorporated into or applied to such hardware or software), telecommunications system failure, service provider error or failure or intentional or unintentional personnel actions (including the failure to follow our security protocols), or lost connectivity to our networked resources.  A material breach in the security of our information technology systems or other data security controls could result in third parties obtaining customer, employee or company data.  A significant and extended disruption in the functioning of these resources, including our website, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, sales and revenue, result in the unintended and/or unauthorized public disclosure or the misappropriation of proprietary, personal identifying and confidential information (including information about our homebuyers, business partners and employees), and require us to incur significant expense (that we may not be able to recover in whole or in part from our service providers or responsible parties, or their or our insurers) to address and remediate or otherwise resolve these kinds of issues.  The release of confidential information may also lead to litigation or other proceedings against us by affected individuals and/or business partners and/or by regulators, and the outcome of such proceedings could have a material and adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  In addition, the costs of maintaining adequate protection against such threats, based on considerations of their evolution, pervasiveness and frequency and/or government-mandated standards or obligations regarding protective efforts, could be material to our consolidated financial statements in a particular period or over various periods.. We are dependent on the services of certain key employees, and the loss of their services could hurt our business.. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract, train and retain skilled personnel.  If we are unable to retain our key employees or attract, train and retain other skilled personnel in the future, this could materially and adversely impact our operations and result in additional expenses for identifying and training new personnel."
