[1] "ITEM 1A:    Risk Factors.. Risks related to the our Business. Earnings in recent years were supported, in part, by negative provisions for loan losses and non-recurring events, which will not necessarily be available in future years.. We were profitable in years 2013 through 2017. Earnings in these years were supported, in part, by negative provisions for loan losses and non-recurring events.  We have recorded negative provisions for loan losses of 1.35 million, $1.35 million, $3.5 million, $3.35 million and $4.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We do not expect a similar level of negative provisions for loan losses in 2018, and non-recurring events with similar levels of positive impact on earnings are not likely to occur in 2018.. Our nonperforming assets and other problem loans could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Our nonperforming assets (which includes non-accrual loans, foreclosed properties and other accruing loans past due 90 days or more) were approximately $6.2 million at December 31, 2017.  These assets could negatively impact operating results through higher loan losses, lost interest and higher costs to administer problem assets.. National, state and local economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The results of operations for financial institutions, including our Bank, may be materially and adversely affected by changes in prevailing national, state and local economic conditions. Our profitability is heavily influenced by the quality of the Company's loan portfolio and the stability of the Company's deposits. Unlike larger national or regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in Ottawa, Kent and Allegan Counties of western Michigan. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for the Company's products and services, and the ability of the Company's customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of the Company's deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities, financial, capital or credit markets or other factors, could impact national and local economic conditions and have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. - 13 -. Table of Contents. Our credit losses could increase and our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses.. The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in all lending activities and nonpayment of loans may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and overall financial condition, and the value of our common stock. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for potential losses based on a number of factors. If our assumptions are wrong, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover our losses, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results, and may cause us to increase the allowance in the future. The actual amount of future provisions for loan losses cannot now be determined and may exceed the amounts of past provisions for loan losses. Federal and state banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from ours. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses could have a negative effect on our regulatory capital ratios, net income, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to liquidity risk in our operations, which could adversely affect our ability to fund various obligations.. Liquidity risk is the possibility of being unable to meet obligations as they come due, pay deposits when withdrawn, and fund loan and investment opportunities as they arise because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding on a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit obligations to borrowers, mortgage originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of debt, operating expenses and capital expenditures. Liquidity of the Bank is derived primarily from retail deposit growth and retention, principal and interest payments on loans and investment securities, net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources. Liquidity is essential to our business. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale or pledging as collateral of loans and other assets could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity.  An inability to retain the current level of deposits, including the loss of one or more of the Bank's larger deposit relationships, could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's liquidity.  Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of the business activity due to a market down turn or regulatory action that limits or eliminates access to alternate funding sources, including brokered deposits discussed above. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are nonspecific to the Company, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole.. Our construction and development lending exposes us to significant risks.. Construction and development loans consist of loans to commercial customers for the construction of their business facilities.  They also include construction loans to builders and developers for the construction of one- to four-family residences and the development of one- to four-family lots, residential subdivisions, condominium developments and other commercial developments.  This portfolio may be particularly adversely affected by job losses, declines in real estate values, declines in home sale volumes, and declines in new home building. Declining real estate values may result in sharp increases in losses, particularly in the land development and construction loan portfolios to residential developers.  This type of lending is generally considered to have more complex credit risks than traditional single-family residential lending because the principal is concentrated in a limited number of loans with repayment dependent on the successful completion and sales of the related real estate project.  Consequently, these loans are often more sensitive to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the general economy than other real estate loans.  These loans are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor and collateral may be difficult to dispose of in a market decline. Additionally, we may experience significant construction loan losses if independent appraisers or project engineers inaccurately estimate the cost and value of construction loan projects.. We have significant exposure to risks associated with commercial and residential real estate.. A substantial portion of our loan portfolio consists of commercial and residential real estate-related loans, including real estate development, construction and residential and commercial mortgage loans.  As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately  $541.9 million of commercial real estate loans outstanding, which represented approximately 41.1% of our loan portfolio.  As of that same date, we had approximately $306.6 million in residential real estate loans outstanding, or approximately 23.2% of our loan portfolio. Consequently, real estate-related credit risks are a significant concern for us. The adverse consequences from real estate-related credit risks tend to be cyclical and are often driven by national economic developments that are not controllable or entirely foreseeable by us or our borrowers.. - 14 -. Table of Contents. Commercial loans may expose us to greater financial and credit risk than other loans.. Our commercial loan portfolio, including commercial mortgages, was approximately $1.0 billion at December 31, 2017, comprising approximately 76.3% of our total loan portfolio. Commercial loans generally carry larger loan balances and can involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than other loans. Any significant failure to pay on time by our customers would hurt our earnings. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans are a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. In addition, when underwriting a commercial or industrial loan, we may take a security interest in commercial real estate, and, in some instances upon a default by the borrower, we may foreclose on and take title to the property, which may lead to potential financial risks for us under applicable environmental laws. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental agencies or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination.. Our loan portfolio has and will continue to be affected by the housing market.. Loans to residential developers involved in the development or sale of 1-4 family residential properties were approximately $30.8 million, $26.0 million, $30.1 million, $29.8 million and $35.2 million at December 31, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. As we continue our on-going portfolio monitoring, we will make credit and reserve decisions based on the current conditions of the borrower or project combined with our expectations for the future. If the housing market deteriorates, we could experience higher charge-offs and delinquencies in this portfolio.. We may face pressure from historical purchasers of our residential mortgage loans to repurchase those loans or reimburse purchasers for losses related to those loans.. We generally sell the fixed rate long-term residential mortgage loans we originate on the secondary market and retain adjustable rate mortgage loans for our portfolios.  Purchasers of residential mortgage loans, such as government sponsored entities, may seek to require sellers of residential mortgage loans to either repurchase loans previously sold or reimburse purchasers for losses related to loans previously sold when losses are incurred on a loan previously sold due to actual or alleged failure to strictly conform to the purchaser's purchase criteria.  We may face claims from historical purchasers of our residential mortgage loans to repurchase those loans or reimburse purchasers for losses related to those loans and we may face increasing expenses to defend against such claims.  If we are required in the future to repurchase loans previously sold, reimburse purchasers for losses related to loans previously sold, or if we incur increasing expenses to defend against such claims, our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected, and would lower our capital ratios as a result of increasing assets and lowering income through expenses and any loss incurred.. For the five-year period ended December 31, 2017, the Company has sold an aggregate of $460.9 million of residential mortgage loans on the secondary market.  During the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company settled claims on loans having an aggregate of $857,000 in principal amount for loans originated and sold during 2006 through 2008, realizing a nominal loss.  This settlement closes all potential claims related to loans sold to Countrywide Mortgage.  As of December 31, 2017, the Company had no other repurchase demands or claims related to residential mortgage loans sold on the secondary market during the five-year period ended December 31, 2017.. Changes in interest rates may negatively affect our earnings and the value of our assets.. Our earnings and cash flows depend substantially upon our net interest income.  Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds.  Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the policies of the Federal Reserve Board.  Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect: (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits; (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, including our securities portfolio; and (iii) the average duration of our interest-earning assets.  This also includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rates indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk), including a prolonged flat or inverted yield curve environment.  Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. For several years prior to December 2015, the Federal Open Market Committee (\"FOMC\") kept the target federal funds between 0% and 0.25%.  In December 2015, the FOMC increased the target federal funds rate by 25 basis points, representing the first increase in nearly a decade.  In December 2016, the FOMC increased the target federal funds by another 25 basis points.  The FOMC increased the target federal funds rate by 25 basis points in each of March, June and December 2017.  Based on comments made by the FOMC, we expect gradual increases during 2018, but the overall low interest rate environment is expected to continue in 2018.  The extended low interest rate environment has compressed our net interest spread and reduced our spread-based revenues, which has had an adverse impact on our revenue and results of operations.. - 15 -. Table of Contents. We are subject to significant government regulation, and any regulatory changes may adversely affect us.. The banking industry is heavily regulated under both federal and state law.  These regulations are primarily intended to protect customers and the Deposit Insurance Fund, not our creditors or shareholders.  We are subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the DIFS, in addition to other regulatory and self-regulatory organizations.  Future regulatory changes or accounting pronouncements may increase our regulatory capital requirements or adversely affect our regulatory capital levels.  Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of such changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition.. The Company could be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions, including defaults by larger financial institutions.. The Company's ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships between financial institutions. The Company has exposure to multiple counterparties, and the Company routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as \"systemic risk\" and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which the Company interacts on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect the Company.. We rely heavily on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect our operations.. We are and will continue to be dependent upon the services of our management team and other key personnel.  Losing the services of one or more key members of our management team could adversely affect our operations.. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met.  If we fail to identify and remediate control deficiencies, it is possible that a material misstatement of interim or annual financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.  In addition, any failure or circumvention of our other controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Bank may be required to pay additional insurance premiums to the FDIC, which could negatively impact earnings.. Depending upon any future losses that the FDIC insurance fund may suffer, there can be no assurance that there will not be additional premium increases in order to replenish the fund. The FDIC may need to set a higher base rate schedule or impose special assessments due to future financial institution failures and updated failure and loss projections. Increased FDIC assessment rates could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through organic growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired.. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain specified levels of capital to support our operations.  We may need to raise additional capital to support our current level of assets or our growth.  Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance.  We cannot assure that we will be able to raise additional capital in the future on terms acceptable to us or at all.  If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to expand our operations through organic growth or acquisitions could be materially limited.  Additional information on the capital requirements applicable to the Bank may be found under the heading \"Regulatory Capital\" in Note 17 in Item 8.. - 16 -. Table of Contents. We may be a defendant in a variety of litigation and other actions, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation or cause us to incur unexpected expenses, which could be material in amount. Should the ultimate expenses, judgments or settlements in any litigation exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, and we may not be able to obtain adequate replacement of our existing policies with acceptable terms, if at all.. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry.. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors.  Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment.  We compete for deposits, loans and other financial services with numerous Michigan-based and out-of-state banks, thrifts, credit unions and other financial institutions as well as other entities which provide financial services.  Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we are.  Most of our competitors have been in business for many years, have established customer bases, are larger, and have substantially higher lending limits than we do.  The financial services industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services.  Competition for limited, high-quality lending opportunities and core deposits in an increasingly competitive marketplace may adversely affect our results of operations.. Evaluation of investment securities for other-than-temporary impairment involves subjective determinations and could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition.. The evaluation of impairments is a quantitative and qualitative process, which is subject to risks and uncertainties and is intended to determine whether declines in the fair value of investments should be recognized in current period earnings. The risks and uncertainties include changes in general economic conditions, the issuer's financial condition or future recovery prospects, the effects of changes in interest rates or credit spreads and the expected recovery period. Estimating future cash flows involves incorporating information received from third-party sources and making internal assumptions and judgments regarding the future performance of the underlying collateral and assessing the probability that an adverse change in future cash flows has occurred. The determination of the amount of other-than-temporary impairments is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available.  Our management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses reasonable judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for recovery. Inherent in management's evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Impairments to the carrying value of our investment securities may need to be taken in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. We depend upon the accuracy and completeness of information about customers.. In deciding whether to extend credit to customers, we rely on information provided to us by our customers, including financial statements and other financial information. We also rely on representations of customers as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent that we extend credit in reliance on financial statements or other information provided by customers that is false, misleading or incomplete.. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a breach of computer systems or otherwise, or failure or interruption of the Company's communication or information systems, could severely harm the Company's business.. As part of its business, the Company collects, processes and retains sensitive and confidential client and customer information on behalf of the Company and other third parties. Despite the security measures the Company has in place for its facilities and systems, and the security measures of its third party service providers, the Company may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events.. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure or interruption of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company's customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems.  In addition, customers could lose access to their accounts and be unable to conduct financial transactions during a period of failure or interruption of these systems.. - 17 -. Table of Contents. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer information, whether by the Company or by its vendors, or failure or interruption of the Company's communication or information systems, could severely damage the Company's reputation, expose it to risks of regulatory scrutiny, litigation and liability, disrupt the Company's operations, or result in a loss of customer business, the occurrence of any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations.. Global cybersecurity threats and incidents can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology (IT) systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the Company and/or its third party service providers. While we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, none of them to date have been material to the Company. Although we employ comprehensive measures to prevent, detect, address and mitigate these threats (including access controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments, continuous monitoring of our IT networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems), cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, litigation with third parties and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations.. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements.. The banking industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services.  In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs.  Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations.  Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing such products and services to our customers.. An \"ownership change\" for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code could materially impair our ability to use our deferred tax assets.. At December 31, 2017, our gross deferred tax asset was $5.2 million. Our ability to use our deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income will be limited if we experience an \"ownership change\" as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative increase in our ownership by \"5-percent shareholders\" (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. A corporation that experiences an ownership change will generally be subject to an annual limitation on the use of its pre-ownership change deferred tax assets equal to the equity value of the corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate.. If an \"ownership change\" occurs, we could lose certain built-in losses that have not been recognized for tax purposes. The amount of the permanent loss would depend on the size of the annual limitation (which is in part a function of our market capitalization at the time of an \"ownership change\") and the remaining carry forward period (U.S. federal net operating losses generally may be carried forward for a period of 20 years).. Risks Associated With the Company's Stock. The market price of our common stock can be volatile, which may make it more difficult to resell our common stock at a desired time and price.. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for a shareholder to resell our common stock when a shareholder wants to and at prices a shareholder finds attractive or at all.  Our stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors, regardless of operating results.  These factors include, among other things:. <U+25CF>    Variations in our anticipated or actual operating results or the results of our competitors;. <U+25CF>    Changes in investors' or analysts' perceptions of the risks and conditions of our business;. <U+25CF>    The size of the public float of our common stock;. - 18 -. Table of Contents. <U+25CF>    Regulatory developments, including changes to regulatory capital levels, components of regulatory capital and how regulatory capital is calculated;. <U+25CF>    Interest rate changes or credit loss trends;. <U+25CF>    Trading volume in our common stock;. <U+25CF>    Market conditions; and. <U+25CF>    General economic conditions.. The Company may issue additional shares of its common stock in the future, which could dilute a shareholder's ownership of common stock.. The Company's articles of incorporation authorize its Board of Directors, without shareholder approval, to, among other things, issue additional shares of common or preferred stock. The issuance of any additional shares of common or preferred stock could be dilutive to a shareholder's ownership of Company common stock.. To the extent that the Company issues options or warrants to purchase common stock in the future and the options or warrants are exercised, the Company's shareholders may experience further dilution. Holders of shares of Company common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, shareholders may not be permitted to invest in future issuances of Company common or preferred stock.. Although publicly traded, our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average liquidity of stocks listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market.. Although our common stock is listed for trading on The Nasdaq Global Select Market, our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average liquidity for companies listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market.  A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This marketplace depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. This limited market may affect a shareholder's ability to sell their shares on short notice, and the sale of a large number of shares at one time could temporarily depress the market price of our common stock. For these reasons, our common stock should not be viewed as a short-term investment.. The Company's common stock is not insured by any governmental entity.. Our common stock is not a deposit account or other obligation of any bank and is not insured by the FDIC or any other governmental entity.  Investment in Company common stock is subject to risk, including possible loss.. The Company may issue debt and equity securities that are senior to Company common stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of Company common stock.. The Company has in the past and may in the future increase its capital by entering into debt or debt-like financing or issuing debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of senior notes, subordinated notes, preferred stock or common stock. In the event of the Company's liquidation, its lenders and holders of its debt securities would receive a distribution of the Company's available assets before distributions to the holders of Company common stock. The Company's decision to incur debt and issue securities in future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond its control. The Company cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of its future offerings and debt financings. Future offerings could reduce the value of shares of Company common stock and dilute a shareholder's interest in the Company.. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws and Michigan laws contain certain provisions that could make a takeover more difficult.. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and the laws of Michigan, include provisions which are designed to provide our Board of Directors with time to consider whether a hostile takeover offer is in our best interest and the best interests of our shareholders. These provisions could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control. The provisions also could diminish the opportunities for a holder of our common stock to participate in tender offers, including tender offers at a price above the then-current price for our common stock. These provisions could also prevent transactions in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices, and may limit the ability of our shareholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests.. The Michigan Business Corporation Act contains provisions intended to protect shareholders and prohibit or discourage certain types of hostile takeover activities. In addition to these provisions and the provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, federal law requires the Federal Reserve Board's approval prior to acquisition of \"control\" of a bank holding company. All of these provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company without action by our shareholders, and therefore, could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. - 19 -. Table of Contents. If an entity holds as little as a 5% interest in our outstanding securities, that entity could, under certain circumstances, be subject to regulation as a \"bank holding company.\". Any entity, including a \"group\" composed of natural persons, owning or controlling with the power to vote 25% or more of our outstanding securities, or 5% or more if the holder otherwise exercises a \"controlling influence\" over us, may be subject to regulation as a \"bank holding company\" in accordance with the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the \"BHC Act\").  In addition, any bank holding company or foreign bank with a U.S. presence may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board under the BHC Act to acquire or retain 5% or more of our outstanding securities.  Becoming a bank holding company imposes statutory and regulatory restrictions and obligations, such as providing managerial and financial strength for its bank subsidiaries.  Regulation as a bank holding company could require the holder to divest all or a portion of the holder's investment in our securities or those nonbanking investments that may be deemed impermissible or incompatible with bank holding company status, such as a material investment in a company unrelated to banking.. Any person not defined as a company by the BHC Act may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, to acquire or retain 10% or more of our outstanding securities.. Any person not otherwise defined as a company by the BHC Act and its implementing regulations may be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, to acquire or retain 10% or more of our outstanding securities.  Applying to obtain this approval could result in a person incurring substantial costs and time delays.  There can be no assurance that regulatory approval will be obtained.. - 20 -. Table of Contents"
