[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. Reliance on Customer Contracts - The Company's inability to renew, extend or replace expiring or terminated contracts could adversely affect the Company's liquidity, profitability and financial condition.. Substantially all of the Company's net revenue is derived from contracts that may be terminated immediately with cause and many, including some of the Company's most significant contracts, are terminable without cause by the customer upon notice and the passage of a specified period of time (typically between 60 and 180 days), or upon the occurrence of certain other specified events. The Company's ten largest customers accounted for approximately 50.0 percent, 43.9 percent and 40.3 percent of the Company's net revenue in the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively. Loss of all of these contracts or customers would, and loss of any one of these contracts or customers could, materially reduce the Company's net revenue and have a material adverse effect on the Company's liquidity, profitability and financial condition. See Note 2 - \"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Significant Customers\" to the consolidated financial statements set forth elsewhere herein for a discussion of the Company's significant customers.. Integration of Companies Acquired by Magellan - The Company's profitability could be adversely affected if the integration of companies acquired by Magellan is not completed in a timely and effective manner.. One of the Company's growth strategies is to make strategic acquisitions which are complementary to its existing operations. After Magellan closes on an acquisition, it must integrate the acquired company into Magellan's policies, procedures and systems. Failure to effectively integrate an acquired business or the failure of the acquired business to perform as anticipated could result in excessive costs being incurred, a delay in obtaining targeted synergies, decreased customer performance (which could result in contract penalties and/or terminations), increased employee turnover, and lost sales opportunities. Finally, difficulties assimilating acquired operations and services could result in the diversion of capital and management's attention away from other business issues and opportunities.. Changes in the Medical Managed Care Carve - Out Industry - Certain changes in the business practices of this industry could negatively impact the Company's resources, profitability and results of operations.. A portion of the Company's Healthcare and Pharmacy Management segments' net revenues are derived from customers in the medical managed healthcare industry, including managed care companies, health insurers and other health plans. Some types of changes in this industry's business practices could negatively impact the Company. For example, if the Company's managed care customers seek to provide services directly to their subscribers, instead of contracting with the Company for such services, the Company could be adversely affected. In this regard, certain of the Company's major customers in the past have not renewed all or part of their contracts with the Company, and instead provided managed healthcare services directly to their subscribers. In addition, the Company has a significant number of contracts with Blue Cross Blue Shield plans and other regional health plans. Consolidation of the healthcare industry through acquisitions and mergers could potentially result in the loss of contracts for the Company. Any of these changes could reduce the Company's net revenue, and adversely affect the Company's profitability and financial condition.. Changes in the Contracting Model for Medicaid Contracts - Certain changes in the contracting model used by states for managed healthcare services contracts relating to Medicaid lives could negatively impact the Company's resources, profitability and results of operations.. A portion of the Company's Healthcare segment net revenue is derived from direct contracts that it has with state or county governments for the provision of services to Medicaid enrollees. Certain states have recently contracted with managed care companies to manage both the behavioral and physical medical care of their Medicaid enrollees. If other governmental entities change the method for contracting for Medicaid business to a fully integrated model, the Company will attempt to subcontract with the managed care organizations to provide behavioral healthcare management for such Medicaid business; however, there is no assurance that the Company would be able to secure such arrangements. Alternatively, the Company may choose to pursue licensure as a health plan to bid on this integrated business. Accordingly, if such a change in the contracting model were to occur, it is possible that the Company could lose current contracted revenues, as well as be unable to bid on potential new business opportunities, thus negatively impacting the Company's profitability and financial condition.. Risk - Based Products - Because the Company provides services at a fixed fee, if the Company is unable to maintain historical margins, or is unable to accurately predict and control healthcare costs, the Company's profitability could decline.. The Company derives its net revenue primarily from arrangements under which the Company assumes responsibility for costs of treatment in exchange for a fixed fee. The Company refers to such arrangements as \"risk - based contracts\" or \"risk - based products,\" which include EAP services. These arrangements provided 58.8 percent, 49.1 percent and 49.6 percent of the Company's net revenue in the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively.. The profitability of the Company's risk contracts could be reduced if the Company is unable to maintain its historical margins. The competitive environment for the Company's risk products could result in pricing pressures which cause the Company to reduce its rates. In addition, customer demands or expectations as to margin levels could cause the Company to reduce its rates. A reduction in risk rates which are not accompanied by a reduction in services covered or expected underlying care trend could result in a decrease in the Company's operating margins.. Profitability of the Company's risk contracts could also be reduced if the Company is unable to accurately estimate the rate of service utilization by members or the cost of such services when the Company prices its services. The Company's assumptions of utilization and costs when the Company prices its services may not ultimately reflect actual utilization rates and costs, many aspects of which are beyond the Company's control. If the cost of services provided to members under a contract together with the administrative costs exceeds the aggregate fees received by the Company under such contract, the Company will incur a loss on the contract.. The Company's profitability could also be reduced if the Company is required to make adjustments to estimates made in reporting historical financial results regarding cost of care, reflected in the Company's financial statements as medical claims payable. Medical claims payable includes reserves for incurred but not reported (\"IBNR\") claims, which are claims for covered services rendered by the Company's providers which have not yet been submitted to the Company for payment. The Company estimates and reserves for IBNR claims based on past claims payment experience, including the average interval between the date services are rendered and the date the claims are received and between the date services are rendered and the date claims are paid, enrollment data, utilization statistics, adjudication decisions, authorized healthcare services and other factors. This data is incorporated into contract - specific reserve models. The estimates for submitted claims and IBNR claims are made on an accrual basis and adjusted in future periods as required. If such risk - based products are not correctly underwritten, the Company's profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Factors that affect the Company's ability to price the Company's services, or accurately make estimates of IBNR claims and other expenses for which the Company creates reserves may include differences between the Company's assumptions and actual results arising from, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the delivery system;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in utilization patterns;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the number of members seeking treatment;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunforeseen fluctuations in claims backlogs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunforeseen increases in the costs of the services;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe occurrence of catastrophes;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tregulatory changes; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in benefit plan design.. Some of these factors could impact the ability of the Company to manage and control the medical costs to the extent assumed in the pricing of its services.. If the Company's membership in risk - based business continues to grow (which is a major focus of the Company's strategy), the Company's exposure to potential losses from risk - based products will also increase.. Expansion of Risk - Based Products - Because the Company intends to continue its expansion into clinically integrated management of special populations eligible for Medicaid and Medicare including individuals with SMI, and other unique high - cost populations, if the Company is unable to accurately underwrite the healthcare cost risk for this new business and control associated costs, the Company's profitability could decline.. The Company believes that it can leverage its information systems, call center, claims and network infrastructure as well as its financial strength and underwriting expertise to facilitate the development of risk product offerings to states that include behavioral healthcare and physical medical care for their special Medicaid and dual eligible populations, particularly individuals with SMI. As the Company expands into new markets, the Company will incur start - up costs to develop and grow this business. The Company's profitability may be negatively impacted until such time that sufficient business is generated to offset these start - up costs.. Furthermore, as the Company expands into new markets, there is an increased risk associated with the underwriting and implementation for this business. Profitability of any such business could be adversely affected if the Company is unable to accurately estimate the rate of service utilization or the cost of such services when the Company prices its services. The Company's assumptions of utilization and costs when the Company prices its services may not ultimately reflect actual utilization rates and costs, many aspects of which are beyond the Company's control. If the cost of services provided to members under a contract together with the administrative costs exceeds the aggregate fees received by the Company under such contract, the Company will incur a loss on the contract.. The Company may partner with managed care organizations to create joint ventures in some states. Conflicts or disagreements between the Company and any joint venture partner may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the relevant joint venture or may ultimately threaten the ability of any such joint venture to continue. The Company is also subject to additional risks and uncertainties because the Company may be dependent upon, and subject to, liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, controls and personnel that are not entirely under the Company's control.. Provider Agreements - Failure to maintain or to secure cost - effective healthcare provider contracts may result in a loss of membership or higher medical costs.. The Company's profitability depends, to an extent, upon the ability to contract favorably with certain healthcare providers. The Company may be unable to enter into agreements with providers in new markets on a timely basis or under favorable terms. If the Company is unable to retain its current provider contracts or enter into new provider contracts timely or on favorable terms, the Company's profitability could be reduced. The Company cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to continue to renew its existing provider contracts or enter into new contracts.. Pharmacy Management - Loss of Relationship with Providers - If we lose our relationship, or our relationship otherwise changes in an unfavorable manner, with one or more key pharmacy providers or if significant changes occur within the pharmacy provider marketplace, or if other issues arise with respect to our pharmacy networks, our business could be adversely affected.. Our operations are dependent to a significant extent on our ability to obtain discounts on prescription purchases from retail pharmacies that can be utilized by our clients and their members. Our contracts with retail pharmacies, which are non - exclusive, are generally terminable by either party on short notice. If one or more of our top pharmacy chains elects to terminate its relationship with us, or if we are only able to continue our relationship on terms less favorable to us, access to retail pharmacies by our clients and their health plan members, and consequently our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected.. Pharmacy Management - Loss of Relationship with Vendors - Our specialty pharmacies, pharmacy claims processing, and mail processing are dependent on our relationships with a limited number of vendors and suppliers and the loss of any of these relationships could significantly impact our ability to sustain our financial performance.. We acquire a substantial percentage of our specialty pharmacies prescription drug supply from a limited number of suppliers. Our agreements with these suppliers may be short - term and cancelable by either party without cause with a relatively short time - frame of prior notice. These agreements may limit our ability to provide services for competing drugs during the term of the agreement and allow the supplier to dispense through channels other than us. Further, certain of these agreements allow pricing and other terms of these relationships to be periodically adjusted for changing market conditions or required service levels. A termination or modification to any of these relationships could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An additional risk related to supply is that many products dispensed by our specialty pharmacy business are manufactured with ingredients that are susceptible to supply shortages. If any products we dispense are in short supply for long periods of time, this could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we source from a limited number of vendors certain aspects of our pharmacy claims and mail processing capabilities. An interruption of service, termination or modification to the terms to any of these agreements may adversely affect our business and financial condition.. Pharmacy Management - Loss of Relationship with Manufacturers - If we lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers or third party rebate administrators or if rebate payments we receive from pharmaceutical manufacturers and rebate processing service providers decline, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected.. We receive fees from our clients for administering rebate programs with pharmaceutical manufacturers based on the use of selected drugs by members of health plans sponsored by our clients, as well as fees for other programs and services. Our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected if:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe lose relationships with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers or third party rebate administrators;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe are unable to renew or finalize rebate contracts with one or more key pharmaceutical manufacturers in the future, or are unable to negotiate interim arrangements;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trebates decline due to the failure of our health plan sponsors to meet market share or other thresholds;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlegal restrictions are imposed on the ability of pharmaceutical manufacturers to offer rebates or purchase our programs or services;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpharmaceutical manufacturers choose not to offer rebates or purchase our programs or services; or.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trebates decline due to contract branded products losing their patients.. Fluctuation in Operating Results - The Company experiences fluctuations in quarterly operating results and, as a consequence, the Company may fail to meet or exceed market expectations, which could cause the Company's stock price to decline.. The Company's quarterly operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to seasonal and other factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in utilization levels by enrolled members of the Company's risk - based contracts, including seasonal utilization patterns (for example, members generally tend to seek services less during the third and fourth quarters of the year than in the first and second quarters of the year);.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tperformance - based contractual adjustments to net revenue, reflecting utilization results or other performance measures;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in estimates for contractual adjustments under commercial contracts;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tretrospective membership adjustments;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe timing of implementation of new contracts, enrollment changes and contract terminations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpricing adjustments upon contract renewals;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe timing of acquisitions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in estimates regarding medical costs and IBNR claims;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe timing of recognition of pharmacy revenues, including rebates and Medicare Part D; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in estimates of contingent consideration.. These factors may affect the Company's quarterly and annual net revenue, expenses and profitability in the future and, accordingly, the Company may fail to meet market expectations, which could cause the Company's stock price to decline.. Dependence on Government Spending - The Company can be adversely affected by changes in federal, state and local healthcare policies, programs, funding and enrollments.. A portion of the Company's net revenues are derived, directly or indirectly, from governmental agencies, including state Medicaid programs. Contract rates vary from state to state, are subject to periodic negotiation and may limit the Company's ability to maintain or increase rates. The Company is unable to predict the impact on the Company's operations of future regulations or legislation affecting Medicaid programs, or the healthcare industry in general. Future regulations or legislation may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Moreover, any reduction in government spending for such programs could also have a material adverse effect on the Company (See \"Reliance on Customer Contracts\"). In addition, the Company's contracts with federal, state and local governmental agencies, under both direct contract and subcontract arrangements, generally are conditioned upon financial appropriations by one or more governmental agencies, especially in the case of state Medicaid programs. These contracts generally can be terminated or modified by the customer if such appropriations are not made. The Company faces increased risks in this regard as state budgets have come under increasing pressure. Finally, some of the Company's contracts with federal, state and local governmental agencies, under both direct contract and subcontract arrangements, require the Company to perform additional services if federal, state or local laws or regulations imposed after the contract is signed so require, in exchange for additional compensation, to be negotiated by the parties in good faith. Government and other third - party payors generally seek to impose lower contract rates and to renegotiate reduced contract rates with service providers in a trend toward cost control.. Restrictive Covenants in the Company's Debt Instruments - Restrictions imposed by the Company's debt agreements limit the Company's operating and financial flexibility. These restrictions may adversely affect the Company's ability to finance the Company's future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in the Company's interest.. On September 22, 2017, the Company completed the public offering of $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 4.400% Senior Notes due 2024 (the \"Notes\"). The Notes are governed by an indenture, dated as of September 22, 2017 (the \"Base Indenture\"), between the Company, as issuer and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, as supplemented by a first supplemental indenture, dated as of September 22, 2017 (the \"First Supplemental Indenture\" together, with the Base Indenture, the \"Indenture\"), between the Company, as issuer, and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee.. The Indenture contains certain covenants which restrict the Company's ability to, among other things, create liens on its and its subsidiaries' assets; engage in sale and lease-back transactions; and engage in a consolidation, merger or sale of assets.. On September 22, 2017, the Company entered into a credit agreement with various lenders that provides for a $400.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility and a $350.0 million senior unsecured term loan facility to the Company, as the borrower (the \"2017 Credit Agreement\"). The 2017 Credit Agreement is scheduled to mature on September 22, 2022.. The 2017 Credit Agreement contains covenants that limit management's discretion in operating the Company's business by restricting or limiting the Company's ability, among other things, to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred or redeemable stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpay dividends and make other distributions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trepurchase equity interests;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmake certain advances, investments and loans;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into sale and leaseback transactions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcreate liens;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsell and otherwise dispose of assets;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tacquire or merge or consolidate with another company; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tenter into some types of transactions with affiliates.. These restrictions could adversely affect the Company's ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in the Company's interest. The 2017 Credit Agreement also requires the Company to comply with specified financial ratios and tests. Failure to do so, unless waived by the lenders under the 2017 Credit Agreement, pursuant to its terms, would result in an event of default.. Required Assurances of Financial Resources - The Company's liquidity, financial condition, prospects and profitability can be adversely affected by present or future state regulations and contractual requirements that the Company provide financial assurance of the Company's ability to meet the Company's obligations.. Some of the Company's contracts and certain state regulations require the Company or certain of the Company's subsidiaries to maintain specified cash reserves or letters of credit and/or to maintain certain minimum tangible net equity in certain of the Company's subsidiaries as assurance that the Company has financial resources to meet the Company's contractual obligations. Many of these state regulations also restrict the investment activity of certain of the Company's subsidiaries. Some state regulations also restrict the ability of certain of the Company's subsidiaries to pay dividends to Magellan. Additional state regulations could be promulgated that would increase the cash or other security the Company would be required to maintain. In addition, the Company's customers may require additional restricted cash or other security with respect to the Company's obligations under the Company's contracts, including the Company's obligation to pay IBNR claims and other medical claims not yet processed and paid. In addition, certain of the Company's contracts and state regulations limit the profits that the Company may earn on risk - based business. The Company's liquidity, financial condition, prospects and profitability could be adversely affected by the effects of such regulations and contractual provisions. See Note 2 - \"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Restricted Assets\" to the consolidated financial statements set forth elsewhere herein for a discussion of the Company's restricted assets.. Competition - The competitive environment in the managed healthcare industry may limit the Company's ability to maintain or increase the Company's rates, which would limit or adversely affect the Company's profitability, and any failure in the Company's ability to respond adequately may adversely affect the Company's ability to maintain contracts or obtain new contracts.. The Company's business is highly competitive. The Company competes with other healthcare organizations as well as with insurance companies, including HMOs, PPOs, TPAs, IPAs, multi - disciplinary medical groups, PBMs, specialty pharmacy companies, RBM companies and other specialty healthcare and managed care companies. Many of the Company's competitors, particularly certain insurance companies, HMOs and PBMs are significantly larger and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than the Company, which can create downward pressure on prices through economies of scale. The entrance or expansion of these larger companies in the managed healthcare industry (including the Company's customers who have in - sourced or who may choose to in - source healthcare services) could increase the competitive pressures the Company faces and could limit the Company's ability to maintain or increase the Company's rates. If this happens, the Company's profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, if the Company does not adequately respond to these competitive pressures, it could cause the Company to not be able to maintain its current contracts or to not be able to obtain new contracts.. Possible Impact of Federal Healthcare Reform Law - can significantly impact the Company's revenues or profitability.. The ACA is a comprehensive piece of legislation intended to make significant changes to the healthcare system in the United States. The ACA contains various effective dates extending through 2020. Numerous regulations have been promulgated related to the ACA with hundreds more expected in the future.. Significant provisions in the ACA include requiring individuals to purchase health insurance, minimum medical loss ratios for health insurance issuers, significant changes to the Medicare and Medicaid programs and many other changes that affect healthcare insurance and managed care. See \"Regulation\" above for more information. Therefore, it is uncertain at this time what the financial impact of healthcare reform will be to the Company. The Company cannot predict the effect of this legislation or other legislation that may be adopted by the United States Congress or by the states, and such legislation, if implemented, could have an adverse effect on the Company.. The ACA also contains provisions related to fees that impact the Company's direct public sector contracts and provisions regarding the non - deductibility of those fees. We believe that our state public sector customers will make rate adjustments to cover the direct costs of these fees and a majority of the impact from non - deductibility of such fees for federal income tax purposes. There may be some impact due to taxes paid for non - renewing customers where the timing and amount of recoupment of these additional costs is uncertain. There can be no guarantees regarding this adjustment from our state public sector customers and these taxes and fees may have a material impact on the Company.. Possible Impact of Federal Mental Health Parity - can significantly impact the Company's revenues or profitability.. In October 2008, the United States Congress passed the Paul Wellstone and Pete Dominici Mental Health Parity Act of 2008 (\"MHPAEA\") establishing parity in financial requirements (e.g. co - pays, deductibles, etc.) and treatment limitations (e.g., limits on the number of visits) between mental health and substance abuse benefits and medical/surgical benefits for health plan members. This law does not require coverage for mental health or substance abuse disorders but if coverage is provided it must be provided at parity. No specific disorders are mandated for coverage; health plans are able to define mental health and substance abuse to determine what they are going to cover. Under the ACA non - grandfathered individual and small group plans (both on and off of the exchange) are required to provide mental health and substance use disorder benefits as essential health benefits. These mandated benefits under the ACA must be provided at parity in these plans. Under the ACA, grandfathered individual plans are required to comply with parity if they offer behavioral health benefits. Grandfathered small group plans are exempt from requirements to provide essential health benefits and parity requirements. State mandated benefits laws are not preempted. The law applies to ERISA plans, Medicaid managed care plans and SCHIP plans. On February 2, 2010, the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Labor and the Department of Health and Human Services issued Interim Final Rules interpreting the MHPAEA (\"IFR\"). The IFR applies to ERISA plans and insured business. A State Medicaid Director Letter was issued in January 2013 discussing applicability of parity to Medicaid managed care plans, SCHIP plans and Alternative Benefit (Benchmark) Plans. It is possible that some states will change their behavioral health plan benefits or management techniques as a result of this letter. On November 13, 2013 the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Labor and the Department of Health and Human Services issued Final Rules on the MHPAEA (\"Final Rules\"). The IFR included some concepts not included under the statute including the requirement to conduct the parity review at the category level within the plan, introducing the concept of non - quantitative treatment limitations, and prohibiting separate but equal deductibles. While some of the regulatory requirements in the IFR were not anticipated, the Company believes it is in compliance with the requirements of the IFR. The Company does not anticipate any significant impacts from the Final Rules however it is still reviewing and assessing the Final Rules with customers. The Company's risk contracts do allow for repricing to occur effective the same date that any legislation/regulation becomes effective if that legislation/regulation is projected to have a material effect on cost of care.. Government Regulation - The Company is subject to substantial government regulation and scrutiny, which increase the Company's costs of doing business and could adversely affect the Company's profitability.. The managed healthcare industry is subject to extensive and evolving federal and state regulation. Such laws and regulations cover, but are not limited to, matters such as licensure, accreditation, government healthcare program participation requirements, information privacy and security, reimbursement for patient services, and Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse. The Company's pharmaceutical management business is also the subject of substantial federal and state governmental regulation and scrutiny.. The Company is subject to certain state laws and regulations and federal laws as a result of the Company's role in management of customers' employee benefit plans.. Regulatory issues may also affect the Company's operations including, but not limited to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditional state licenses that may be required to conduct the Company's businesses, including utilization review, PBM, pharmacy, HMO and TPA activities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlimits imposed by state authorities upon corporations' control or excessive influence over managed healthcare services through the direct employment of physicians, psychiatrists, psychologists or other professionals, and prohibiting fee splitting;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlaws that impose financial terms and requirements on the Company due to the Company's assumption of risk under contracts with licensed insurance companies or HMOs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlaws in certain states that impose an obligation to contract with any healthcare provider willing to meet the terms of the Company's contracts with similar providers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompliance with HIPAA (including the federal HITECH Act, which strengthens and expands HIPAA) and other federal and state laws impacting the confidentiality of member information;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tstate legislation regulating PBMs or imposing fiduciary status on PBMs;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpharmacy laws and regulation;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlegislation imposing benefit plan design restrictions, which limit how our clients can design their drug benefit plans; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnetwork pharmacy access laws, including \"any willing provider\" and \"due process\" legislation, that affect aspects of our pharmacy network contracts.. The imposition of additional licensing and other regulatory requirements may, among other things, increase the Company's equity requirements, increase the cost of doing business or force significant changes in the Company's operations to comply with these requirements.. The costs associated with compliance with government regulation as discussed above may adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operation.. Noncompliance With Regulations - Noncompliance with regulations may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations, including from monetary or criminal liabilities and penalties, investigations or regulatory actions, additional compliance requirements, heightened governmental scrutiny, or exclusion from participating in government programs.. Extensive laws and regulation are applicable to all of our business operations. Noncompliance by the Company with these laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Government investigations and allegations have become more frequent concerning possible violations of statutes and regulations by healthcare organizations. The Company also conducts its own investigations into these matters and may choose to self-report its findings to governmental agencies. Violations by the Company with certain laws and regulations may result in it being excluded from participating in government healthcare programs, subject to fines or penalties or required to repay amounts received from the government for previously billed services. In addition, alleged violations may result in litigation or regulatory action. A subsequent legal liability or a significant regulatory action against the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, even if the Company ultimately prevails in any litigation, regulatory action or investigation, such litigation, regulatory action or investigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Company also receives notifications from and engages in discussions with various government agencies concerning the Company's businesses and operations. As a result of these contacts with regulators, the Company may, as appropriate, be required to implement changes to the Company's operations, revise the Company's filings with such agencies and/or seek additional licenses to conduct the Company's business. The Company's inability to comply with the various regulatory requirements may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. Reference is made to information set forth under \"Regulation - Other Federal and State Laws and Regulations\" under Item 1 of this Report.. Medicare Part D - The Company's participation in Medicare Part D is subject to government regulation and failure to comply with regulatory requirements could adversely impact the Company's profitability.. There are many uncertainties about the financial and regulatory risks of participating in the Medicare Part D program, and we can give no assurance these risks will not materially adversely impact the Company's results. Certain of the Company's subsidiaries have been approved by CMS to offer Medicare Part D prescription drug plans to individual beneficiaries and employer groups. Such subsidiaries are required to comply with Medicare Part D laws and regulations and, because CMS requires that Medicare Part D sponsors be licensed as risk - bearing entities, also with applicable state laws and regulations regarding the business of insurance. The Company also provides services in support of our clients' Medicare Part D plans and must be able to deliver such services in a manner that complies with applicable regulatory requirements. We have made substantial investments in both human resources and the technology required to administer Medicare Part D benefits. The adoption of new or more complex regulatory requirements or changes in the interpretation of existing regulatory requirements associated with Medicare Part D may require us to incur significant costs or otherwise impact our ability to earn a profit on such business. In addition, the Company's receipt of federal funds made available through the Medicare Part D program is subject to compliance with the laws and regulations governing the federal government's payment for healthcare goods and services, including the federal anti - kickback law and false claims acts. If we fail to comply materially with applicable regulatory or contractual requirements, whether identified through CMS or other government audits, client audits, or otherwise, we may be subject to certain sanctions, penalties, or other remedies, including, but not limited to, suspension of marketing or enrollment activities, restrictions on expanding our service area, civil monetary penalties or other monetary amounts, termination of our contract(s) with CMS or Part D clients, and exclusion from federal healthcare programs.. The Company faces risks related to unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential member and other information.. As part of its normal operations, the Company collects, processes and retains confidential member information making the Company subject to various federal and state laws and rules regarding the use and disclosure of confidential member information, including HIPAA. The Company also maintains other confidential information related to its business and operations. Despite appropriate security measures, the Company may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. Noncompliance with any privacy or security laws and regulations or any security breach, whether by the Company or by its vendors, could result in enforcement actions, material fines and penalties and could also subject the Company to litigation.. Cyber - Security - The Company faces risks related to a breach or failure in our operational security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business.. Our business requires us to securely store, process and transmit confidential, proprietary and other information in our operations. Security breaches may arise from computer hackers penetrating our systems to obtain personal information for financial gain, attempting to cause harm to our operations, or intending to obtain competitive information. Our systems are also subject to the attack of viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs. We maintain a comprehensive system of preventive and detective controls through our security programs; however, our prevention and detection controls may not prevent or identify all such attacks. The costs to update our security protocols to mitigate a security breach could be significant. A breach or failure in our operational security systems may result in loss of data or an unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential member or employee information and could result in significant penalties or fines, litigation, loss of customers, or significant damage to our reputation and business, which could adversely impact the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company faces additional regulatory risks associated with its Pharmacy Management segment which could subject it to additional regulatory scrutiny and liability and which could adversely affect the profitability of the Pharmacy Management segment in the future.. Various aspects of the Company's Pharmacy Management segment are governed by federal and state laws and regulations. Pharmaceutical management services are provided by the Company to Medicaid and Medicare plans as well as commercial insurance plans. There has been enhanced scrutiny on federal programs and the Company must remain vigilant in ensuring compliance with the requirements of these programs. In addition, there are provisions of the ACA which may impact the Company's business. For example, the ACA imposes transparency requirements on PBMs. PBMs have also increasingly become the target of federal and state litigation over alleged practices relating to prescription drug switching, soliciting, and receiving unlawful remuneration, handling rebates, and fiduciary duties, among others. Significant sanctions may be imposed for violations of these laws and compliance programs are a significant operational requirement of the Company's business. There are significant uncertainties involving the application of many of these legal requirements to the Company. Accordingly, the Company may be required to incur additional administrative and compliance expenses in determining the applicable requirements and in adapting its compliance practices, or modifying its business practices, in order to satisfy changing interpretations and regulatory policies. In addition, there are numerous proposed healthcare laws and regulations at the federal and state levels, many of which, if adopted, could adversely affect the Company's business. See \"Regulation\" above.. Risks Related to Realization of Goodwill and Intangible Assets - The Company's profitability could be adversely affected if the value of intangible assets is not fully realized.. The Company's total assets at December 31, 2017 reflect goodwill of approximately $1.0 billion, representing approximately 34.0 percent of total assets. The Company completed its annual impairment analysis of goodwill as of October 1, 2017, noting that no impairment was identified.. At December 31, 2017, identifiable intangible assets (customer lists, contracts, provider networks and trade names) totaled approximately $268.3 million. Intangible assets are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives, which range from approximately one to eighteen years. The amortization periods used may differ from those used by other entities. In addition, the Company may be required to shorten the amortization period for intangible assets in future periods based on changes in the Company's business. There can be no assurance that such goodwill or intangible assets will be realizable.. The Company evaluates, on a regular basis, whether for any reason the carrying value of the Company's intangible assets and other long - lived assets may no longer be completely recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings for impairment losses could become necessary. When events or changes in circumstances occur that indicate the carrying amount of long - lived assets may not be recoverable, the Company assesses the recoverability of long - lived assets other than goodwill by determining whether the carrying value of such assets will be recovered through the future cash flows expected from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition.. Any event or change in circumstances leading to a future determination requiring write - off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets or goodwill would adversely affect the Company's profitability.. Claims for Professional Liability - Pending or future actions or claims for professional liability (including any associated judgments, settlements, legal fees and other costs) could require the Company to make significant cash expenditures and consume significant management time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's profitability and financial condition.. The Company's operating activities entail significant risks of liability. In recent years, participants in the healthcare industry generally, as well as the managed healthcare industry, have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits. From time to time, the Company is subject to various actions and claims of professional liability alleging negligence in performing utilization review and other managed healthcare activities, as well as for the acts or omissions of the Company's employees, including employed physicians and other clinicians, network providers, pharmacists, or others. In the normal course of business, the Company receives reports relating to deaths and other serious incidents involving patients whose care is being managed by the Company. Such incidents occasionally give rise to malpractice, professional negligence and other related actions and claims against the Company, the Company's employees or the Company's network providers. The Company is also subject to actions and claims for the costs of services for which payment was denied. Many of these actions and claims seek substantial damages and require the Company to incur significant fees and costs related to the Company's defense and consume significant management time and resources. While the Company maintains professional liability insurance, there can be no assurance that future actions or claims for professional liability (including any judgments, settlements or costs associated therewith) will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's profitability and financial condition.. Professional Liability and Other Insurance - Claims brought against the Company that exceed the scope of the Company's liability coverage or denial of coverage could materially and adversely affect the Company's profitability and financial condition.. The Company maintains a program of insurance coverage against a broad range of risks in the Company's business. As part of this program of insurance, the Company carries professional liability insurance, subject to certain deductibles and self - insured retentions. The Company also is sometimes required by customer contracts to post surety bonds with respect to the Company's potential liability on professional responsibility claims that may be asserted in connection with services the Company provides. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had approximately $67.7 million of such bonds outstanding. The Company's insurance may not be sufficient to cover any judgments, settlements or costs relating to present or future claims, suits or complaints. Upon expiration of the Company's insurance policies, sufficient insurance may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. To the extent the Company's customers are entitled to indemnification under their contracts with the Company relating to liabilities they incur arising from the operation of the Company's programs, such indemnification may not be covered under the Company's insurance policies. To the extent that certain actions and claims seek punitive and compensatory damages arising from the Company's alleged intentional misconduct, such damages, if awarded, may not be covered, in whole or in part, by the Company's insurance policies. If the Company is unable to secure adequate insurance in the future, or if the insurance the Company carries is not sufficient to cover any judgments, settlements or costs relating to any present or future actions or claims, such judgments, settlements or costs may have a material adverse effect on the Company's profitability and financial condition. If the Company is unable to obtain needed surety bonds in adequate amounts or make alternative arrangements to satisfy the requirements for such bonds, the Company may no longer be able to operate in those states, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company.. Class Action Suits and Other Legal Proceedings - The Company is subject to class action and other lawsuits that could result in material liabilities to the Company or cause the Company to incur material costs, to change the Company's operating procedures in ways that increase costs or to comply with additional regulatory requirements.. Managed healthcare companies and PBM companies have been targeted as defendants in national class action lawsuits regarding their business practices. The Company has in the past been subject to such national class actions as defendants and is also subject to or a party to other class actions, lawsuits and legal proceedings in conducting the Company's business. In addition, certain of the Company's customers are parties to pending class action lawsuits regarding the customers' business practices for which the customers could seek indemnification from the Company. These lawsuits may take years to resolve and cause the Company to incur substantial litigation expense, and the outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the Company's profitability and financial condition. In addition to potential damage awards, depending upon the outcomes of such cases, these lawsuits may cause or force changes in practices of the Company's industry and may also cause additional regulation of the industry through new federal or state laws or new applications of existing laws or regulations. Such changes could increase the Company's operating costs.. Negative Publicity - The Company may be subject to negative publicity which may adversely affect the Company's business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. From time to time, the managed healthcare industry has received negative publicity. This publicity has led to increased legislation, regulation, review of industry practices and private litigation. These factors may adversely affect the Company's ability to market our services, require the Company to change its services, or increase the overall regulatory burden under which the Company operates. Any of these factors may increase the costs of doing business and adversely affect the Company's business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.. Investment Portfolio - The value of the Company's investments is influenced by varying economic and market conditions, and a decrease in value may result in a loss charged to income.. All of the Company's investments are classified as \"available - for - sale\" and are carried at fair value. The Company's available - for - sale investment securities were $327.9 million and represented 11.1 percent of the Company's total assets at December 31, 2017.. The current economic environment and recent volatility of securities markets increase the difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. The Company believes it has adequately reviewed its investment securities for impairment and that its investment securities are carried at fair value. However, over time, the economic and market environment may provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change the Company's judgment regarding impairment. This could result in realized losses relating to other - than - temporary declines being charged against future income. Given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is a risk that declines in fair value may occur and material other - than - temporary impairments may be charged to income in future periods, resulting in realized losses. In addition, if it became necessary for the Company to liquidate its investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, it could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.. Adverse Economic Conditions - Adverse changes in national economic conditions could adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations.. Changes in national economic conditions could adversely affect the Company's reimbursement from state Medicaid programs in its Healthcare segment. Adverse economic conditions could also adversely affect the Company's customers in the Healthcare and Pharmacy Management segments resulting in increased pressures on the Company's operating margins. In addition, economic conditions may result in decreased membership in the Healthcare and Pharmacy Management segments, thereby adversely affecting the revenues to the Company from such customers as well as the Company's operating profitability.. Adverse economic conditions in the debt markets could affect the Company's ability to refinance the Company's existing Credit Agreement upon its maturity on acceptable terms, or at all."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
