[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following describes the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those presented in our forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face but do represent those risks and uncertainties that we believe are material to us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also harm our business.. Risks Related to Our Business. General economic conditions, particularly in the United States, affect our industry, demand for our products, and our business and results of operations.. Demand for new recreational powerboats has been significantly influenced in the past by weak economic conditions, low consumer confidence and high unemployment and increased market volatility worldwide, especially in the United States. In times of economic uncertainty and contraction, consumers tend to have less discretionary income and defer or avoid expenditures for discretionary items, such as our products. Sales of our products are highly sensitive to personal discretionary spending levels, and our success depends on general economic conditions and overall consumer confidence and personal income levels. Any deterioration in general economic conditions that diminishes consumer confidence or discretionary income may reduce our sales and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict the duration or strength of an economic recovery, either in the United States or in the specific markets where we sell our products.. 16. Table of Contents. Consumers often finance purchases of our products and accordingly, consumer credit market conditions also influence demand for our boats. If credit conditions worsen, and adversely affect the ability of consumers to finance potential purchases at acceptable terms and interest rates, it could result in a decrease in the sales of our products.. We have signed an agreement to purchase substantially all of the assets of the Pursuit division of S2 Yachts, Inc., which is subject to closing conditions.  If we are unable to complete this acquisition we will not be able to realize any anticipated benefits of the acquisition.. On August 21, 2018, we entered into an agreement with S2 Yachts, Inc. and other parties thereto to acquire the Pursuit division, or Pursuit, of S2 Yachts, Inc.  Although we currently expect the acquisition of Pursuit to close in the fourth quarter of calendar 2018, the acquisition is subject to closing conditions and there can be no assurance that it will be completed as expected or at all.  If the acquisition of Pursuit is not completed, we will be subject to a number of risks without realizing the anticipated benefits of having completed the acquisition, including the following:. • the market price of our securities could decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the acquisition of Pursuit will be completed, or to the extent that investors believe that the acquisition of Pursuit is material to our business strategy;. • we will be required to pay our costs relating to the acquisition of Pursuit, such as legal, accounting, financing and financial advisory fees, whether or not the acquisition of Pursuit is completed; and. • a delay in the closing or inability to close may require more time of our management that could be used for ongoing operational matters.. We continue to grow our business through acquisitions or strategic alliances and new partnerships, such as our pending acquisition of Pursuit and our recent acquisition of Cobalt, and we may not be successful in completing or integrating these acquisitions in a way that fully realizes their expected benefits to our business.. We continue to grow our business through acquisitions and strategic alliances, including our pending acquisition of Pursuit, our acquisition of Cobalt in 2017 and of our Australian licensee in 2015.  We believe these acquisitions will enable us to acquire complementary skills and capabilities, offer new products, expand our consumer base, enter new product categories or geographic markets and obtain other competitive advantages. We cannot assure you, however, that we will fully realize these benefits.  Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve anticipated levels of sales or profitability, or otherwise perform as expected. Acquisitions also involve special risks, including risks associated with unanticipated challenges, liabilities and contingencies, and diversion of management attention and resources from our existing operations.  Further, we may not be able to identify future acquisition candidates or strategic partners as part of our growth strategy that are suitable to our business, or we may not be able to obtain financing on satisfactory terms to complete such acquisitions.. Our results after the acquisition of Cobalt and, if completed, our acquisition of Pursuit may suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations following the acquisitions.. The size of our business increased significantly as a result of our acquisition of Cobalt and may increase further as a result of our pending acquisition of Pursuit. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of additional operations and associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances we will be successful or that we will realize the benefits from our acquisition of Cobalt or the expected benefits currently anticipated from the completion of our acquisition of Pursuit.. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant acquisition-related integration costs and transaction expenses in connection with the acquisition of Cobalt and pending acquisition of Pursuit.. We incurred non-recurring, acquisition-related integration costs with the integration of Cobalt into our business, and we anticipate that we will incur similar charges in connection with the integration of Pursuit if we complete that acquisition.  We cannot currently identify the timing, nature and amount of the integration related cost we will incur with our anticipated integration of Pursuit. We have also incurred and will continue to incur significant transaction costs related to the negotiation and completion of our acquisition of Pursuit. These integration costs and transaction expenses will be charged as an expense in the period incurred. The significant transaction costs and integration costs could materially affect our results of operations in the period in which such charges are recorded. Although we believe that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the business, will offset incremental transaction and integration costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all.. The Cobalt and Pursuit businesses may underperform relative to our expectations.. 17. Table of Contents. Although Cobalt has been a part of our business since July 2017, we are still integrating its business into our operations.  We will also need to integrate the operations of Pursuit if we complete that acquisition. We may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that we, Cobalt and Pursuit have achieved or might achieve separately. The business and financial performance of Cobalt and Pursuit are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the loss of, or changes to, its relationships with its dealers and suppliers, increased product liability and warranty claims, and negative publicity or other events that could diminish the value of the Cobalt and Pursuit brands. We may be unable to achieve the same growth, revenues and profitability that Cobalt and Pursuit has each achieved in the past.. Our growth strategy may require us to secure significant additional capital, the amount of which will depend upon the size, timing, and structure of future acquisitions or vertical integrations and our working capital and general corporate needs.. Our growth strategy could include acquiring businesses, similar to our acquisition of Cobalt in July 2017 and our pending acquisition of Pursuit, and the integration of new product lines or related products to our boats, similar to our integration of the manufacturing of our own trailers beginning with model year 2016 and our initiative to integrate the production of our own engines as soon as model year 2019. These actions may require us to secure significant additional capital through the borrowing of money or the issuance of equity.  For instance, we are increasing the amount available to borrow under our existing revolving credit facility by an incremental $50.0 million to fund a portion of our purchase price of Pursuit. Any borrowings made to finance future strategic initiatives could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our operating results, a downturn in economic conditions, or increases in interest rates on borrowings that are subject to interest rate fluctuations. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to meet our debt service requirements, we could then be required to sell additional equity securities, refinance our obligations or dispose of assets in order to meet our debt service requirements. Adequate financing may not be available if and when we need it or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. The failure to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms and conditions could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects.. Further, we could choose to finance acquisitions or other strategic initiatives, in whole or in part through the issuance of our Class A Common Stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for our Class A Common Stock. If we do so, existing stockholders will experience dilution in the voting power of their Class A Common Stock and earnings per share could be negatively impacted. The extent to which we will be able and willing to use our Class A Common Stock for acquisitions and other strategic initiatives will depend on the market value of our Class A Common Stock and the willingness of potential third parties to accept our Class A Common Stock as full or partial consideration. Our inability to use our Class A Common Stock as consideration, to generate cash from operations, or to obtain additional funding through debt or equity financings in order to pursue our strategic initiatives could materially limit our growth.. Our annual and quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control.. Our sales and operating results can vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to:. • seasonal consumer demand for our products;. • discretionary spending habits;. • changes in pricing in, or the availability of supply in, the used powerboat market;. • failure to maintain a premium brand image;. • disruption in the operation of our manufacturing facilities;. • variations in the timing and volume of our sales;. • the timing of our expenditures in anticipation of future sales;. • sales promotions by us and our competitors;. • consumer preferences and competition for consumers' leisure time; and. • changes in competitive and economic conditions generally;. • consumer preferences and competition for consumers' leisure time; and. • changes in the cost or availability of our labor.. 18. Table of Contents. As a result, our results of operations may decline quickly and significantly in response to changes in order patterns or rapid decreases in demand for our products. We anticipate that fluctuations in operating results will continue in the future.. In addition to the factors noted above, unfavorable weather conditions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, especially during the peak boating season.. Adverse weather conditions in any year in any particular geographic region may adversely affect sales in that region, especially during the peak boating season. Sales of our products are generally stronger just before and during spring and summer, which represent the peak boating months in most of our markets, and favorable weather during these months generally has a positive effect on consumer demand. Conversely, unseasonably cool weather, excessive rainfall, reduced rainfall levels, or drought conditions during these periods may close area boating locations or render boating dangerous or inconvenient, thereby generally reducing consumer demand for our products. Our annual results would be materially and adversely affected if our net sales were to fall below expected seasonal levels during these periods. We may also experience more pronounced seasonal fluctuation in net sales in the future as we continue to expand our businesses. Additionally, to the extent that unfavorable weather conditions are exacerbated by global climate change or otherwise, our sales may be affected to a greater degree than we have previously experienced. There can be no assurance that weather conditions will not have a material effect on the sales of any of our products.. We depend on our network of independent dealers, face increasing competition for dealers and have little control over their activities.. Substantially all of our sales are derived from our network of independent dealers. We have agreements with the dealers in our network that typically provide for one-year terms, although some agreements have a term of up to three years. For fiscal years 2018,  2017 and 2016, our top ten dealers for Malibu and Axis brands accounted for 37.3%, 40.6% and 31.9%, respectively, of our total units sold. For Cobalt's fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, Cobalt's top ten dealers account for 44.4%, 41.8%, and 39.2%, respectively, of Cobalt's total units sold. The loss of a significant number of these dealers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The number of dealers supporting our products and the quality of their marketing and servicing efforts are essential to our ability to generate sales. Competition for dealers among recreational powerboat manufacturers continues to increase based on the quality, price, value and availability of the manufacturers' products, the manufacturers' attention to customer service and the marketing support that the manufacturer provides to the dealers. We face intense competition from other recreational powerboat manufacturers in attracting and retaining dealers, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain relationships with qualified and successful dealers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or improve our relationship with our dealers or our market share position. In addition, independent dealers in the recreational powerboat industry have experienced significant consolidation in recent years, which could result in the loss of one or more of our dealers in the future if the surviving entity in any such consolidation purchases similar products from a competitor. A substantial deterioration in the number of dealers or quality of our network of dealers, including our network of Cobalt dealers, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our success depends, in part, upon the financial health of our dealers and their continued access to financing.. Because we sell nearly all of our products through dealers, the financial health of our dealers is critical to our success. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if the financial health of the dealers that sell our products suffers. Their financial health may suffer for a variety of reasons, including a downturn in general economic conditions, rising interest rates, higher rents, increased labor costs and taxes, compliance with regulations and personal financial issues.. In addition, our dealers require adequate liquidity to finance their operations, including purchases of our products. Dealers are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could unfavorably affect their liquidity positions, including, among other things, continued access to adequate financing sources on a timely basis on reasonable terms. These sources of financing are vital to our ability to sell products through our distribution network. Access to floor plan financing generally facilitates our dealers' ability to purchase boats from us, and their financed purchases reduce our working capital requirements. If floor plan financing were not available to our dealers, our sales and our working capital levels would be adversely affected. The availability and terms of financing offered by our dealers' floor plan financing providers will continue to be influenced by:. • their ability to access certain capital markets and to fund their operations in a cost-effective manner;. • the performance of their overall credit portfolios;. • their willingness to accept the risks associated with lending to dealers; and. 19. Table of Contents. • the overall creditworthiness of those dealers.. We may be required to repurchase inventory of certain dealers.. Many of our dealers have floor plan financing arrangements with third-party finance companies that enable the dealers to purchase our products. In connection with these agreements, we may have an obligation to repurchase our products from a finance company under certain circumstances, and we may not have any control over the timing or amount of any repurchase obligation nor have access to capital on terms acceptable to us to satisfy any repurchase obligation. This obligation is triggered if a dealer defaults on its debt obligations to a finance company, the finance company repossesses the boat and the boat is returned to us. Our obligation to repurchase a repossessed boat for the unpaid balance of our original invoice price for the boat is subject to reduction or limitation based on the age and condition of the boat at the time of repurchase, and in certain cases by an aggregate cap on repurchase obligations associated with a particular floor plan financing program. For fiscal year 2016, we agreed to repurchase three units from the lender of two of our former dealers resulting in combined losses of $0.03 million.  Other than these repurchase commitments, we have not repurchased any units from lenders since July 1, 2010. There is no assurance that a dealer will not default on the terms of a credit line in the future. In addition, applicable laws regulating dealer relations may also require us to repurchase our products from our dealers under certain circumstances, and we may not have any control over the timing or amount of any repurchase obligation nor have access to capital on terms acceptable to us to satisfy any repurchase obligation. If we were obligated to repurchase a significant number of units under any repurchase agreement or under applicable dealer laws, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. If we fail to manage our manufacturing levels while still addressing the seasonal retail pattern for our products, our business and margins may suffer.. The seasonality of retail demand for our products, together with our goal of balancing production throughout the year, requires us to manage our manufacturing and allocate our products to our dealer network to address anticipated retail demand. Our dealers must manage seasonal changes in consumer demand and inventory. If our dealers reduce their inventories in response to weakness in retail demand, or if new models or product introductions are expected to replace or reduce demand. for older models or products, we could be required to reduce our production, resulting in lower rates of absorption of fixed costs in our manufacturing and, therefore, lower margins. As a result, we must balance the economies of level production with the seasonal retail sales pattern experienced by our dealers. Failure to adjust manufacturing levels adequately may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We have a large fixed cost base that will affect our profitability if our sales decrease.. The fixed cost levels of operating a recreational powerboat manufacturer can put pressure on profit margins when sales and production decline. Our profitability depends, in part, on our ability to spread fixed costs over a sufficiently large number of products sold and shipped, and if we make a decision to reduce our rate of production, gross or net margins could be negatively affected. Consequently, decreased demand or the need to reduce production can lower our ability to absorb fixed costs and materially impact our financial condition or results of operations.. Our industry is characterized by intense competition, which affects our sales and profits.. The recreational powerboat industry, and in particular the performance sport boat category, is highly competitive for consumers and dealers. We also compete against consumer demand for used boats. Competition affects our ability to succeed in both the markets we currently serve and new markets that we may enter in the future, including the saltwater outboard. fishing boat market in which Pursuit competes. Competition is based primarily on brand name, price, product selection and product performance. We compete with several large manufacturers that may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do and who are represented by dealers in the markets in which we now operate and into which we plan to expand. We also compete with a variety of small, independent manufacturers. We cannot assure you that we will not face greater competition from existing large or small manufacturers or that we will be able to compete successfully with new competitors. Our failure to compete effectively with our current and future competitors would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our sales may be adversely impacted by increased consumer preference for used boats or the supply of new boats by competitors in excess of demand.. During the economic downturn that commenced in 2008, we observed a shift in consumer demand toward purchasing more used boats, primarily because prices for used boats are typically lower than retail prices for new boats. If this were to occur again, it could have the effect of reducing demand among retail purchasers for our new boats. Also, while we have taken steps designed to balance production volumes for our boats with demand, our competitors could choose to reduce the price of. 20. Table of Contents. their products, which could have the effect of reducing demand for our new boats. Reduced demand for new boats could lead to reduced sales by us, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition.. Our sales and profitability depend, in part, on the successful introduction of new products.. Market acceptance of our products depends on our technological innovation and our ability to implement technology in our boats. Our sales and profitability may be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development, such as an inability to develop viable or innovative new products. Our failure to introduce new technologies and product offerings that our markets desire could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, we believe we have been able to achieve higher margins in part as a result of the introduction of new features or enhancements to our existing boat models. If we fail to introduce new features or those we introduce fail to gain market acceptance, our margins may suffer.. In addition, some of our direct competitors and indirect competitors may have significantly more resources to develop and patent new technologies. It is possible that our competitors will develop and patent equivalent or superior technologies and other products that compete with ours. They may assert these patents against us and we may be required to license these patents on unfavorable terms or cease using the technology covered by these patents, either of which would harm our competitive position and may materially adversely affect our business.. We also cannot be certain that our products or technologies have not infringed or will not infringe the proprietary rights of others. Any such infringement could cause third parties, including our competitors, to bring claims against us, resulting in significant costs and potential damages.. We compete with a variety of other activities for consumers' scarce leisure time.. Our boats are used for recreational and sport purposes, and demand for our boats may be adversely affected by competition from other activities that occupy consumers' leisure time and by changes in consumer life style, usage pattern or taste. Similarly, an overall decrease in consumer leisure time may reduce consumers' willingness to purchase and enjoy our products.. Our success depends upon the continued strength of our brands  -  Malibu, Axis, and Cobalt  -  and the value of our brands and sales of our products could be diminished if we, the athletes who use our products or the sports and activities in which our products are used, are associated with negative publicity.. We believe that our brands  - , Malibu, Axis, and Cobalt  -  are significant contributors to the success of our business and that maintaining and enhancing our brands are important to expanding our consumer and dealer base. Failure to continue to protect our brands may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Negative publicity, including that resulting from severe injuries or death occurring in the sports and activities in which our products are used, could negatively affect our reputation and result in restrictions, recalls or bans on the use of our products. Further, actions taken by athletes associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes could also harm our brand image and adversely affect our financial condition. If the popularity of the sports and activities for which we design, manufacture and sell products were to decrease as a result of these risks or any negative publicity, sales of our products could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our net revenue, profitability and operating results. In addition, if we become exposed to additional claims and litigation relating to the use of our products, our reputation may be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful, including by generating potential negative publicity about our products, which could adversely impact our business and financial condition.. We may not be able to execute our manufacturing strategy successfully, which could cause the profitability of our products to suffer.. Our manufacturing strategy is designed to improve product quality and increase productivity, while reducing costs and increasing flexibility to respond to ongoing changes in the marketplace. To implement this strategy, we must be successful in our continuous improvement efforts, which depend on the involvement of management, production employees and suppliers. In addition, we began manufacturing our own trailers for model year 2016 and have entered into an engine supply agreement with General Motors LLC for the development of our own engines. Because the integration of our trailer manufacturing is relatively new to us, we must continue to seek ways to improve our trailer production. Further, our vertical integration strategy for our engines may not be successful. Any inability to achieve these objectives could adversely impact the profitability of our products and our ability to deliver desirable products to our consumers.. Our engine integration strategy will require significant cash expenditures and we may not be able to execute our strategy successfully, which could cause our profitability to suffer.. In November, 2016, we entered an engine supply agreement with General Motors LLC for the supply of engines to us. 21. Table of Contents. for use in our Malibu and Axis brand performance sports boats beginning as early as model year 2019 through model year 2023. Unlike our current strategy that purchases engines prepared for marine use, we will be solely responsible for integrating the engines purchased from General Motors for marine use. We adopted this strategy in order to more directly control product path (design, innovation, calibration and integration) of our largest dollar procured part, to differentiate our product from our competitors, and to increase our ability to respond to ongoing changes in the marketplace.. This strategy will require significant additional capital. We purchased an additional facility adjacent to our current manufacturing facility for the production of our engines. We expect a total investment through expenditures, working capital, and capital expenses of approximately $18.0 million for the three years since entering the engine supply agreement in November 2016, which we have financed and intend to continue to finance with cash from operations and our revolving credit facility. In addition, this strategy will increase the fixed costs of our operations. And, because the integration of engines into our manufacturing process is new to us, we must be successful in continuous improvement efforts, which depend on the involvement of management, production employees and suppliers. If we are not successful in our engine integration strategy, it could adversely impact the profitability of our products and our ability to deliver desirable products to our consumers.. We have entered into an agreement with Yamaha Motor Corporation, U.S.A. that will require us to purchase substantially all of our outboard motors from Yamaha if we complete our acquisition of Pursuit, which will make us reliant on Yamaha for our supply of outboard engines.. In August 2018, we entered into an agreement with Yamaha Motor Corporation, U.S.A., or Yamaha, that becomes. effective only if we complete our acquisition of Pursuit. Under our agreement with Yamaha, we will be obligated to purchase Yamaha outboard engines for use in at least 90% of all of our boats equipped with outboard motors, which would include boats under our Cobalt brand and Pursuit brand, if that acquisition is completed. While we believe that this agreement with Yamaha will provide the engines we need for our Cobalt boats and Pursuit boats, if the acquisition of Pursuit is completed, Yamaha could potentially exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to the outboard engines we use. We will also be required to purchase a minimum volume of engines from Yamaha for the term of the agreement or refund unearned funds to Yamaha. While we believe such minimum amount is achievable at our current volumes, there can be no assurance that we will continue to maintain such volumes in the future.. As a result of our engine integration strategy, we will rely solely on General Motors for the supply of Malibu and Axis engines, which we will then integrate for marine use.. The availability and cost of engines used in the manufacture of our boats are critical. For fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, we purchased approximately 66%, 64% and 60%, respectively, of the engines for our Malibu and Axis boats from a single supplier. These engines were prepared for marine use as purchased. We have begun purchasing engines from General Motors LLC for our Malibu and Axis boats and we will prepare the engines for marine use. We expect to be purchasing engines solely from General Motors as soon as model year 2020. If we are required to replace General Motors for any reason, it could cause a decrease in products available for sale or an increase in our cost of sales, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on third-party suppliers and may be unable to obtain adequate raw materials and components.. We depend on third-party suppliers to provide components and raw materials essential to the construction of our boats. Historically, we have not entered into long-term agreements with our suppliers, but have developed 90-day forecast models with our major suppliers to minimize disruptions in our supply chain. While we believe that our relationships with our current suppliers are sufficient to provide the materials necessary to meet present production demand, we cannot assure you that these relationships will continue or that the quantity or quality of materials available from these suppliers will be sufficient to meet our future needs, irrespective of whether we successfully implement our growth strategy.. In particular, the availability and cost of engines used in the manufacture of our boats are critical. For fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016 we purchased approximately 66%, 64% and 60%, respectively, of the engines for our Malibu and Axis boats from a single supplier. Even with our engine integration strategy, we intend to continue to purchase engines for our Malibu and Axis boats from our engine supplier through at least model year 2019. If we are required to replace these suppliers or the supplier of any other key components or raw materials, it could cause a decrease in products available for sale or an increase in the cost of sales, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations even as our engines development initiative continues.. Termination or interruption of informal supply arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. 22. Table of Contents. We have informal supply arrangements with many of our suppliers. In the event of a termination of the supply arrangement, there can be no assurance that alternate supply arrangements will be made on satisfactory terms. If we need to enter into supply arrangements on unsatisfactory terms, or if there are any delays to our supply arrangements, it could adversely affect our business and operating results.. Our ability to meet our manufacturing workforce needs is crucial to our results of operations and future sales and profitability.. We rely on the existence of an available hourly workforce to manufacture our boats. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified employees to meet current or future manufacturing needs at a reasonable cost, or at all. Although none of our employees is currently covered by collective bargaining agreements, we cannot assure you that our employees will not elect to be represented by labor unions in the future. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees. Significant increases in manufacturing workforce costs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Product liability, warranty, personal injury, property damage and recall claims may materially affect our financial condition and damage our reputation.. We are engaged in a business that exposes us to claims for product liability and warranty claims in the event our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in property damage, personal injury or death. In the past, we have provided limited product warranties, generally covering periods from 12 to 36 months for Malibu brand boats and 12 to 24 months for Axis brand boats. Effective July 1, 2015, we began providing a limited warranty for a period up to five years to our consumers for both our Malibu and Axis brand boats manufactured after this point in time. We expect the extension of our warranty coverage period to increase our obligations to cover warranty claims over time resulting in an increase in our reserve to cover these warranty claims.. For Cobalt boats, we provide limited warranty for a period of up to ten years on structural components such as hull/deck joints, bulkheads, floor, transom, stringers, and motor mount, and up to five years on manufactured or purchased components, including canvas and upholstery. Gelcoat is covered up to three years for Cobalt and one year for Malibu and Axis.  If we complete our acquisition of Pursuit, we will continue to provide warranties for Pursuit boats, which provide limited warranty for a period of up to five years on structural components such as the hull, deck and fiberglass fuel tanks and defects in the gelcoat surface of the hull bottom, and up to two years for components and accessories, subject to certain exclusions. In addition, we will be assuming any warranty claims on Pursuit boats manufactured prior to our acquisition of Pursuit.. Our standard warranties require us or our dealers to repair or replace defective products during such warranty periods at no cost to the consumer. Although we maintain product and general liability insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for the industry, we are not fully insured against all such potential claims. We may experience legal claims in excess of our insurance coverage or claims that are not covered by insurance, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse determination of material product liability and warranty claims made against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and harm our reputation. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of that product if the defect or alleged defect relates to safety. These and other claims we face could be costly to us and require substantial management attention.. We depend on key personnel and we may not  be able to retain them or to attract, assimilate, and retain highly qualified employees in the future.. Our future success will depend in significant part upon the continued service of our senior management and our continuing ability to attract, assimilate, and retain highly qualified and skilled managerial, product development, manufacturing, and marketing and other personnel. The loss of services of any members of our senior management or key personnel or the inability to hire or retain qualified personnel in the future could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our reliance upon patents, trademark laws and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property from others who may sell similar products and may lead to costly litigation. We are currently, and may be in the future, party to lawsuits and other intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time-consuming.. We hold patents and trademarks relating to various aspects of our products and believe that proprietary technical know-how is important to our business. Proprietary rights relating to our products are protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or trademarks or are maintained in confidence as trade secrets. We cannot be certain that we will be issued any patents from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us or that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In the. 23. Table of Contents. absence of enforceable patent or trademark protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, gain access to our trade secrets and know-how or diminish our brand through unauthorized use of our trademarks, all of which could adversely affect our business. Accordingly, we may need to engage in future litigation to enforce intellectual property rights to protect trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. For example, in May 2017 we settled two Tennessee lawsuits in which we were previously a plaintiff alleging infringement by a competitor of our patent rights in certain wake surfing technology. For more information, see Note 15 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report.. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation, or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how, or other proprietary information. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, we could be materially adversely affected.. In addition, others may initiate litigation or other proceedings to challenge the validity of our patents, or allege that we infringe their patents, or they may use their resources to design comparable products that do not infringe our patents. We may incur substantial costs if our competitors initiate litigation to challenge the validity of our patents, or allege that we infringe their patents, or if we initiate any proceedings to protect our proprietary rights. As an example, we entered into a settlement agreement in September 2014 and agreed to pay $20.0 million in cash for settlement of a lawsuit alleging patent infringement and related claims against us in connection with windshields installed in our boats that we purchased from a third party supplier. If the outcome of any litigation challenging our patents is unfavorable to us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. We rely on network and information systems and other technologies for our business activities and certain events, such as computer hackings, viruses or other destructive or disruptive software or activities may disrupt our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Network and information systems and other technologies are important to our business activities and operations. Network and information systems-related events, such as computer hackings, cyber threats, security breaches, viruses, or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns or malicious or other activities could result in a disruption of our services and operations or improper disclosure of personal data or confidential information, which could damage our reputation and require us to expend resources to remedy any such breaches. Moreover, the amount and scope of insurance we maintain against losses resulting from any such events or security breaches may not be sufficient to cover our losses or otherwise adequately compensate us for any disruptions to our businesses that may result, and the occurrence of any such events or security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The risk of these systems-related events and security breaches occurring has intensified, in part because we maintain certain information necessary to conduct our businesses in digital form stored on cloud servers. While we develop and maintain systems seeking to prevent systems-related events and security breaches from occurring, the development and maintenance of these systems is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Despite these efforts, there can be no assurance that disruptions and security breaches will not occur in the future. Moreover, we may provide certain confidential, proprietary and personal information to third parties in connection with our businesses, and while we obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information, there is a risk that this information may be compromised. The occurrence of any of such network or information systems-related events or security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The nature of our business exposes us to workers' compensation claims and other workplace liabilities.. Certain materials we use require our employees to handle potentially hazardous or toxic substances. While our employees who handle these and other potentially hazardous or toxic materials receive specialized training and wear protective clothing, there is still a risk that they, or others, may be exposed to these substances. Exposure to these substances could result in significant injury to our employees and damage to our property or the property of others, including natural resource damage. Our personnel are also at risk for other workplace-related injuries, including slips and falls. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to fines, penalties, and other liabilities in connection with any such injury or damage. Although we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable and adequate insurance in excess of our self-insured amounts, we may be unable to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or such insurance may not provide adequate protection against potential liabilities.. 24. Table of Contents. Our international markets require significant management attention, expose us to difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal and business factors, and may not be successful or produce desired levels of sales and profitability.. We currently sell our products throughout the world. Our total sales outside North America were less than 10% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016. International markets have been, and will continue to be, a focus for sales growth. We believe many opportunities exist in the international markets, and over time we intend for international sales to comprise a larger percentage of our total revenue. Several factors, including weakened international economic conditions, could adversely affect such growth. The expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets require significant management attention. Some of the countries in which we market and our distributors or licensee sell our products are to some degree subject to political, economic or social instability. Our international operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include, but are not limited to:. • increased costs of customizing products for foreign countries;. • unfamiliarity with local demographics, consumer preferences and discretionary spending patterns;. • difficulties in attracting customers due to a reduced level of customer familiarity with our brand;. • competition with new, unfamiliar competitors;. • the imposition of additional foreign governmental controls or regulations, including rules relating to environmental, health and safety matters and regulations and other laws applicable to publicly-traded companies, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA;. • new or enhanced trade restrictions and restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors, including the imposition of additional or new tariffs;. • the imposition of increases in costly and lengthy import and export licensing and other compliance requirements, customs duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade;. • laws and business practices favoring local companies;. • longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; and. • difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights.. Our international operations may not produce desired levels of total sales, or one or more of the foregoing factors may harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in currency exchange rates can adversely affect our results.. A portion of our sales are denominated in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. Consequently, a strong U.S. dollar may adversely affect reported revenues. We also maintain a portion of our manufacturing operations in Australia which partially mitigates the impact of a strengthening U.S. dollar in that country. A portion of our selling, general and administrative costs are transacted in Australian dollars as a result. We also sell U.S. manufactured products into certain international markets in U.S. dollars, including the sale of products into Canada, Europe and Latin America. Demand for our products in these markets may also be adversely affected by a strengthening U.S. dollar. For example, we have experienced decreased demand in Canada due to the weakening Canadian dollar and demand is weak in other areas of the world, notably South America, South Africa and Europe. We do not currently use hedging or other derivative instruments to mitigate our foreign currency risks.. An increase in energy and fuel costs may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Higher energy costs result in increases in operating expenses at our manufacturing facility and in the expense of shipping products to our dealers. In addition, increases in energy costs may adversely affect the pricing and availability of petroleum-based raw materials, such as resins and foams, that are used in our products. Also, higher fuel prices may have an adverse effect on demand for our boats, as they increase the cost of ownership and operation.. 25. Table of Contents. We are subject to U.S. and other anti-corruption laws, trade controls, economic sanctions and similar laws and regulations, including those in the jurisdictions where we operate. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to civil, criminal and administrative penalties and harm our reputation.. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires us to comply with the laws and regulations of various foreign jurisdictions. These laws and regulations place restrictions on our operations, trade practices, partners and investment decisions. In particular, our operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption and trade control laws and regulations, such as the FCPA, export controls and economic sanctions programs, including those administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, or the OFAC. As a result of doing business in foreign countries and with foreign partners, we are exposed to a heightened risk of violating anti-corruption and trade control laws and sanctions regulations.. The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper business advantage. It also requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions.. Economic sanctions programs restrict our business dealings with certain sanctioned countries, persons and entities. In addition, because we act through dealers and distributors, we face the risk that our dealers, distributors or consumers might further distribute our products to a sanctioned person or entity, or an ultimate end-user in a sanctioned country, which might subject us to an investigation concerning compliance with OFAC or other sanctions regulations.. Violations of anti-corruption and trade control laws and sanctions regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We cannot assure you that all of our local, strategic or joint partners will comply with these laws and regulations, in which case we could be held liable for actions taken inside or outside of the United States, even though our partners may not be subject to these laws. Such a violation could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Our continued international expansion, including in developing countries, and our development of new partnerships and joint venture relationships worldwide, could increase the risk of FCPA or OFAC violations in the future.. If we are unable to comply with environmental and other regulatory requirements, our business may be exposed to material liability or fines.. We are subject to extensive regulation, including product safety, environmental and health and safety requirements under various federal, state, local and foreign statutes, ordinances and regulations. While we believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable federal, state, local and foreign regulatory requirements, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Compliance with regulatory requirements could increase the cost of our products, which in turn, may reduce consumer demand, or could materially increase the cost of operations. The failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could cause us to incur significant fines or penalties, obligations to conduct remedial or corrective actions, or, in extreme circumstances, revocation of our permits or injunctions preventing some or all of our operations. In addition, the components of our boats must meet certain regulatory standards, including air emission standards for boat engines and fuel systems. Failure to meet these standards could result in an inability to sell our boats in key markets, which would adversely affect our business. In addition, legal requirements are constantly evolving, and changes in laws, regulations or policies, or changes in interpretations of the foregoing, could also increase our costs or create liabilities where none exists today.. As with boat construction in general, our manufacturing processes involve the use, handling, storage and contracting for recycling or disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. The failure to manage or dispose of such hazardous substances and wastes properly could expose us to material liability or fines, including liability for personal injury or property damage due to exposure to hazardous substances, damages to natural resources, or for the investigation and remediation of environmental conditions. Under certain environmental laws, we may be liable for remediation of contamination at sites where our hazardous wastes have been disposed or at our current or former facilities, regardless of whether such facilities are owned or leased or whether we caused the condition of contamination. Also, the components in our boats may become subject to more stringent environmental regulations. For example, boat engines and other emission producing components may be subject to more stringent emissions standards, which could increase the cost of our engines, components and our products, which, in turn, may reduce consumer demand for our products.. A natural disaster or other disruption at our manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on the continuous operation of manufacturing facilities in Tennessee, Kansas, California and Australia. If we. 26. Table of Contents. complete our acquisition of Pursuit, we will also have manufacturing facilities in southern Florida. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to our facilities due to fire, flood, earthquake or any other unforeseen circumstances could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in climate could adversely affect our operations by limiting or increasing the costs associated with equipment or fuel supplies.  In addition, adverse weather conditions, such as increased frequency and/or severity of storms, or floods could impair our ability to operate by damaging our facilities and equipment or restricting product delivery to customers. The occurrence of any disruption at our manufacturing facilities, even for a short period of time, may have an adverse effect on our productivity and profitability, during and after the period of the disruption. These disruptions may also cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage. Although we maintain property, casualty and business interruption insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for the industry, we are not fully insured against all potential natural disasters or other disruptions to our manufacturing facilities.. Increases in income tax rates or changes in income tax laws or enforcement could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. Changes in domestic and international tax legislation could expose us to additional tax liability and could impact the amount of our tax receivable agreement liability. Although we monitor changes in tax laws and work to mitigate the impact of proposed changes, such changes may negatively impact our financial results. In addition, any increase in individual income tax rates, such as those implemented in the United States at the beginning of 2013, would negatively affect our potential consumers' discretionary income and could decrease the demand for our products. While we do not expect the provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, or the Tax Act to have a material adverse impact on our business or financial results, quantifying all of the impacts of the Tax Act requires significant judgment by our management, including the inherent complexities involved in determining the timing of reversals of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Accordingly, we will continue to analyze the impacts of the Tax Act on our business and financial results and, if necessary, record any further adjustments to our deferred tax assets and liabilities and our tax receivable agreement liability in future periods. Such adjustments may negatively impact our financial results.. The credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and term loan contains restrictive covenants which may limit our operating flexibility and may impair our ability to access sufficient capital to operate our business.. We have relied on and continue to rely on our term loan and revolving credit facility to provide us with adequate liquidity to operate our business. Our credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and term loan contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional debt and additional liens on property and make future payments of dividends or distributions on our capital stock. Further, the credit agreement requires compliance with financial covenants, including a minimum ratio of EBITDA to fixed charges and a maximum ratio of total debt to EBITDA.. These covenants may affect our ability to operate and finance our business as we deem appropriate. Violation of these covenants could constitute an event of default under the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and term loan. If there were an event of default under the credit agreement, our lenders could reduce or terminate our access to amounts under our credit facilities or declare all of the indebtedness outstanding under our revolving credit facility and term loan immediately due and payable. We may not have sufficient funds available, or we may not have access to sufficient capital from other sources, to continue funding our operations or to repay any accelerated debt. Even if we could obtain additional financing, the terms of the financing may not be favorable to us. In addition, substantially all of our assets are subject to liens securing our revolving credit facility and term loan. If amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility or term loan were accelerated, our lenders could foreclose on these liens and we could lose substantially all of our assets. Any event of default under the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and term loan could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility and term loan are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. Interest rates are currently at relatively low levels. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. We manage our exposure to interest rate movements on our term loan through the use of an interest rate swap agreement on a notional amount of $39.3 million. We have elected not to designate our interest rate swap as a hedge; therefore, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument may cause volatility in our interest expense based on fluctuations in interest rates. In the future, we may enter into similar interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce future interest rate volatility on the remaining unhedged portion of our term loan; however, there is no guarantee we may take such action and we. 27. Table of Contents. may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. A hypothetical 1% increase in LIBOR over the 1.52% floor could increase our annual interest expense and related cash flows by approximately $0.9 million based on the unhedged portion of the amounts outstanding under our credit facility as of June 30, 2018.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our Class A Common Stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or the JOBS Act. We have taken, and for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take, advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to emerging growth companies, which includes, among other things:. • exemption from the auditor attestation requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act;. • reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements;. • exemption from the requirements of holding non-binding stockholder votes on executive compensation arrangements; and. • exemption from any public rules requiring mandatory audit firm rotation and auditor discussion and analysis and, unless the SEC otherwise determines, any future audit rules that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.. We could be an emerging growth company until the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary after our initial public offering (June 30, 2019) or until the earliest of (1) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have annual gross revenue of $1.0 billion or more, (2) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt or (3) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the federal securities laws, which requires, among other things, the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates to be at least $700.0 million as of the last business day of our second fiscal quarter. We would qualify as a large accelerated filer as of the first day of the first fiscal year after we have more than $700.0 million in our outstanding common equity held by our non-affiliates on the last business day of our second fiscal quarter. We expect that we will no longer qualify as an emerging growth company as of June 30, 2019.. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies are also permitted to elect to delay adoption of new or revised accounting standards until companies that are not subject to periodic reporting obligations are required to comply, if such accounting standards apply to non-reporting companies. We have made an irrevocable decision to opt out of this extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards.. We cannot predict if investors will find our Class A Common Stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Class A Common Stock less attractive as a result, there may be less active trading market for our Class A Common Stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Management is similarly required to review disclosure controls, which are controls established to ensure that information required to be disclosed in SEC reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported in a timely manner. Additionally, once we are no longer an emerging growth company, as defined by the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis. We expect our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019.. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. The existence of any material weakness could require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any such material weakness and management may not be able to remediate any such material weakness in a timely manner. The existence of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could also result in errors in our financial statements that could require us to restate our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our. 28. Table of Contents. reporting obligations, and cause stockholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business and stock price. In addition, if our independent registered public accounting firm is. unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our internal controls after we cease to be an emerging growth company, investors could lose confidence in our financial information and the price of our stock could decline.. We incur significant increased costs as a result of being a public company, and our management devotes substantial time to comply with the laws and regulations affecting public companies. We expect our costs to increase after we are no longer an emerging growth company.. We became a public company on January 30, 2014. As a public company, we have incurred significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting and corporate governance requirements, in order to comply with the rules and regulations imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq. We expect these costs to increase after we cease to qualify as an emerging growth company, which we expect to be on June 30, 2019. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives and our legal and accounting compliance costs have increased. It is likely that we will need to hire additional staff in the areas of investor relations, legal and accounting as we continue to operate as a public company. We also believe it is more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and liability insurance as a public company, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur in the future or the timing of such costs.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, as a public company, we are required to perform system and process evaluations and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As an emerging growth company, we are not required to comply with the auditor attestation provisions of Section 404 but we expect to comply beginning with our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial accounting expense and management time on compliance-related issues. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could cause our stock price to decline.. When we cease to qualify as an emerging growth company, we expect to incur additional expenses and devote increased management effort toward ensuring compliance with them. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur as a result of becoming a public company or the timing of such costs.. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure. Our only material asset is our interest in the LLC, and we are accordingly dependent upon distributions from the LLC to pay taxes, make payments under the tax receivable agreement or pay dividends.. Malibu Boats, Inc. is a holding company and has no material assets other than our ownership of LLC Units. Malibu Boats, Inc. has no independent means of generating revenue. We intend to cause the LLC to make distributions to its unit holders in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes at assumed tax rates, payments under the tax receivable agreement and dividends, if any, declared by us. To the extent that we need funds, and the LLC is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of its financing arrangements, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. For example, our credit agreement generally prohibits the LLC, Malibu Boats, LLC, Malibu Australian Acquisition Corp., and Cobalt Boats, LLC from paying dividends or making distributions. Our credit agreement permits, however, (i) distributions based on a member's allocated taxable income, (ii) distributions to fund payments that are required under the LLC's tax receivable agreement, (iii) purchase of stock or stock options of the LLC from former officers, directors or employees of loan parties or payments pursuant to stock option and other benefit plans up to $2.0 million in any fiscal year, and (iv) share repurchase payments up to $20.0 million in any fiscal year subject to one-year carry forward and compliance with other financial covenants. In addition, the LLC may make dividends and distributions of up to $6.0 million in any fiscal year, subject to compliance with other financial covenants.. 29. Table of Contents. We will be required to pay the pre-IPO owners (or any permitted assignee) for certain tax benefits pursuant to our tax receivable agreement with them, and the amounts we may pay could be significant.. We entered into a tax receivable agreement with the pre-IPO owners (or their permitted assignees) that provides for the payment by us to the pre-IPO owners (or any permitted assignee) of 85% of the tax benefits, if any, that we are deemed to realize as a result of (1) the increases in tax basis resulting from our purchases or exchanges of LLC Units and (2) certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. These payment obligations are our obligations and not of the LLC. For purposes of the agreement, the benefit deemed realized by us will be computed by comparing our actual income tax liability (calculated with certain assumptions) to the amount of such taxes that we would have been required to pay had there been no increase to the tax basis of the assets of the LLC as a result of the purchases or exchanges, and had we not entered into the tax receivable agreement. Estimating the amount of payments that may be made under the tax receivable agreement is by its nature imprecise, insofar as the calculation of amounts payable depends on a variety of factors. The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including:. • the timing of purchases or exchanges-for instance, the increase in any tax deductions will vary depending on the fair value, which may fluctuate over time, of the depreciable or amortizable assets of the LLC at the time of each purchase or exchange;. • the price of shares of our Class A Common Stock at the time of the purchase or exchange-the increase in any tax deductions, as well as the tax basis increase in other assets, of the LLC is directly related to the price of shares of our Class A Common Stock at the time of the purchase or exchange;. • the extent to which such purchases or exchanges are taxable-if an exchange or purchase is not taxable for any reason, increased deductions will not be available; and. • the amount and timing of our income-the corporate taxpayer will be required to pay 85% of the deemed benefits as and when deemed realized. If we do not have taxable income, we generally will not be required (absent a change of control or other circumstances requiring an early termination payment) to make payments under the tax receivable agreement for that taxable year because no benefit will have been realized. However, any tax benefits that do not result in realized benefits in a given tax year will likely generate tax attributes that may be utilized to generate benefits in previous or future tax years. The utilization of such tax attributes will result in payments under the tax receivable agreement.. For more information see Note 2 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report.. We expect that the payments that we may make under the tax receivable agreement may be substantial. Assuming no material changes in the relevant tax law, and that we earn sufficient taxable income to realize all tax benefits that are subject to the agreement, we expect that future payments under the tax receivable agreement relating to the purchases by Malibu Boats, Inc. of LLC Units will be approximately $55.0 million over the next eighteen (18) years. Future payments to pre-IPO owners (or their permitted assignees) in respect of subsequent exchanges or purchases would be in addition to these amounts and are expected to be substantial. The foregoing numbers are merely estimates and the actual payments could differ materially. It is possible that future transactions or events, such as changes in tax legislation, could increase or decrease the actual tax benefits realized and the corresponding tax receivable agreement payments. For example, during the second quarter of fiscal 2018, the U.S. Congress enacted tax legislation called the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"the Tax Act\") on December 22, 2017, which, among other provisions, lowered our U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018. The Tax Act lowered the estimated tax rate used to compute our future tax obligations and, in turn, reduced the future tax benefit expected to be realized by us related to increased tax basis from previous sales and exchanges of LLC Units by pre-IPO owners of the LLC. The change in the underlying tax rate assumptions used to estimate the tax receivable agreement liability, resulted in a decrease in the tax receivable agreement liability of $30.3 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Refer to Note 10 for further information on the Tax Act. Also, during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we acquired Cobalt, which expanded our footprint into new state tax jurisdictions. This change in the our state tax posture increased the estimated tax rate used in computing our future tax obligations and, in turn, increased the future tax benefit expected to be realized by us related to increased tax basis from previous sales and exchanges of LLC Units by pre-IPO owners of the LLC. The change in the underlying tax rate assumptions used to estimate the tax receivable agreement liability resulted in an increase in the tax receivable agreement liability of $6.0 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, the state of Tennessee enacted tax legislation, which lowered the estimated tax rate used in computing our future tax obligations and, in turn, reduced the future tax benefit expected to be realized by us related to increased tax basis from previous sales and exchanges of LLC Units by pre-IPO owners. The change in the underlying tax rate assumptions used to estimate our tax. 30. Table of Contents. receivable agreement liability resulted in a decrease in such liability of  $8.1 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017.. Further, there may be a material negative effect on our liquidity if distributions to us by the LLC are not sufficient to permit us to make payments under the tax receivable agreement after we have paid taxes. For example, we may have an obligation to make tax receivable agreement payments for a certain amount while receiving distributions from the LLC in a lesser amount, which would negatively affect our liquidity. The payments under the tax receivable agreement are not conditioned upon the pre-IPO owners' (or any permitted assignees') continued ownership of us.. We are required to make a good faith effort to ensure that we have sufficient cash available to make any required payments under the tax receivable agreement. The limited liability company agreement of the LLC requires the LLC to make \"tax distributions\" which, in the ordinary course, will be sufficient to pay our actual tax liability and to fund required payments under the tax receivable agreement. If for any reason the LLC is not able to make a tax distribution in an amount that is sufficient to make any required payment under the tax receivable agreement or we otherwise lack sufficient funds, interest would accrue on any unpaid amounts at the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, plus 500 basis points until they are paid.. In certain cases, payments under the tax receivable agreement to the pre-IPO owners (or any permitted assignees) of LLC Units may be accelerated or significantly exceed the actual benefits we realize in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement.. The tax receivable agreement provides that, in the event that we exercise our right to early termination of the tax receivable agreement, or in the event of a change in control or a material breach by us of our obligations under the tax receivable agreement, the tax receivable agreement will terminate, and we will be required to make a lump-sum payment equal to the present value of all forecasted future payments that would have otherwise been made under the tax receivable agreement, which lump-sum payment would be based on certain assumptions, including those relating to our future taxable income. The change in control payment and termination payments to the pre-IPO owners (or any permitted assignees) could be substantial and could exceed the actual tax benefits that we receive as a result of acquiring the LLC Units because the amounts of such payments would be calculated assuming that we would have been able to use the potential tax benefits each year for the remainder of the amortization periods applicable to the basis increases, and that tax rates applicable to us would be the same as they were in the year of the termination. In these situations, our obligations under the tax receivable agreement could have a substantial negative impact on our liquidity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to finance our obligations under the tax receivable agreement.. Payments under the tax receivable agreement will be based on the tax reporting positions that we determine. Although we are not aware of any issue that would cause the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, to challenge a tax basis increase, Malibu Boats, Inc. will not be reimbursed for any payments previously made under the tax receivable agreement. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the tax receivable agreement in excess of the benefits that Malibu Boats, Inc. actually realizes in respect of (1) the increases in tax basis resulting from our purchases or exchanges of LLC Units and (2) certain other tax benefits related to our entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement.. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock. Our stock price may be volatile and stockholders may be unable to sell shares at or above the price at which they purchased them.. Our stock price ranged from $25.00 per share to $46.49 per share during fiscal year 2018. The market price of our Class A Common Stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to the many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including:. • our ability to continue to integrate our acquisition of Cobalt and the possible integration of our pending acquisition of Pursuit into our business;. • our ability to complete our acquisition of Pursuit;. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and results of operations;. • addition or loss of consumers or dealers;. • actual or anticipated changes in our rate of growth relative to our competitors;. 31. Table of Contents. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • failure to introduce new products, or for those products to achieve market acceptance;. • disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain intellectual property protection for our technologies;. • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us;. • changes in applicable laws or regulations;. • issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts;. • sales of our Class A Common Stock by us or our stockholders; and. • share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares.. Further, the stock markets may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can affect the market prices of equity securities. These fluctuations can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, could harm the market price of our Class A Common Stock.. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could harm our business.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our Class A Common Stock may depend on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish research or reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.. Future sales of our Class A Common Stock in the public market could cause our share price to fall; furthermore, you may be diluted by future issuances of Class A Common Stock in connection with our incentive plans, acquisitions or otherwise.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A Common Stock in the public market, in particular sales by our directors, officers or other affiliates,, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our Class A Common Stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Furthermore, any Class A Common Stock that we issue in connection with our Long-Term Incentive Plan or other equity incentive plans that we may adopt in the future, our acquisitions or otherwise would dilute the percentage ownership of holders of our Class A Common Stock.. Our governing documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock.. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain certain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include, without limitation:. • a classified board structure;. • a requirement that stockholders must provide advance notice to propose nominations or have other business considered at a meeting of stockholders;. • supermajority stockholder approval to amend our bylaws or certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation; and. • authorization of blank check preferred stock.. 32. Table of Contents. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding Class A Common Stock, from engaging in certain business combinations without the approval of substantially all of our stockholders for a certain period of time.. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our Class A Common Stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions.. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our Class A Common Stock and, consequently, the only opportunity for stockholders to achieve a return on their investment is if the price of our Class A Common Stock appreciates.. We currently do not plan to declare or pay dividends on shares of our Class A Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Further, because we are a holding company, our ability to pay dividends depends on our receipt of cash distributions from the LLC and the LLC also relies on its subsidiaries for receipt of cash for distributions. This may further restrict our ability to pay dividends as a result of the laws of the jurisdiction of organization of the LLC and its subsidiaries, agreements of the LLC or its subsidiaries or covenants under our, the LLC's or its subsidiaries' existing or future indebtedness. For example, our credit agreement generally prohibits the LLC, Malibu Boats, LLC, Malibu Australian Acquisition Corp. and Cobalt Boats, LLC. from paying dividends or making distributions. Our credit agreement permits, however, (i) distributions based on a member's allocated taxable income, (ii) distributions to fund payments that are required under the LLC's tax receivable agreement, (iii) purchase of stock or stock options of the LLC from former officers, directors or employees of loan parties or payments pursuant to stock option and other benefit plans up to $2.0 million in any fiscal year, and (iv) share repurchase payments up to $20.0 million in any fiscal year subject to one-year carry forward and compliance with other financial covenants. In addition, the LLC may make dividends and distributions of up to $6.0 million in any fiscal year, subject to compliance with other financial covenants. Consequently, for stockholders the only opportunity to achieve a return on the shares they purchase will be if the market price of our Class A Common Stock appreciates and they sell their shares at a profit."
