[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business and the Industries We Serve. A portion of our business depends on the oil and natural gas industry and particularly on the level of exploration and production activity within the United States and Canada, and the ongoing volatility in prices for oil and natural gas has had, and continues to have, an adverse effect on our revenue, cash flows, profitability and growth.. Demand for our oil and natural gas products and services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by companies in the oil and natural gas industry. The significant decline in oil and natural gas prices during 2015 continued during the first part of 2016 before seeing a rebound during the second half of 2016 and throughout 2017. The low commodity price environment caused many of our customers to reduce spending on drilling, completion and other production activities. Although the prices for oil and natural gas have recently stabilized, the industry conditions are dynamic and the continuation or a weakening of commodity prices from current levels may result in a material adverse impact on certain of our customers' liquidity and financial position resulting in spending reductions, delays in the collection of amounts owing to us and similar impacts. These conditions have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and it is difficult to predict how long the current commodity price environment will continue.. Many factors over which we have no control affect the supply of and demand for, and our customers' willingness to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas, and therefore, influence prices for our products and services, including:. • the domestic and foreign supply of and demand for oil and natural gas;. • the level of prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and natural gas;. • the level of global oil and natural gas exploration and production;. • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas;. • the expected decline rates of current production;. • the price and quantity of foreign imports;. • political and economic conditions in oil producing countries, including the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia;. 23. • the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls;. • speculative trading in crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts;. • the level of consumer product demand;. • the discovery rates of new oil and natural gas reserves;. • contractions in the credit market;. • the strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar;. • available pipeline and other transportation capacity;. • the levels of oil and natural gas storage;. • weather conditions and other natural disasters;. • political instability in oil and natural gas producing countries;. • domestic and foreign tax policy;. • domestic and foreign governmental approvals and regulatory requirements and conditions;. • the continued threat of terrorism and the impact of military and other action, including military action in the Middle East;. • technical advances affecting energy consumption;. • the proximity and capacity of oil and natural gas pipelines and other transportation facilities;. • the price and availability of alternative fuels;. • the ability of oil and natural gas producers to raise equity capital and debt financing;. • merger and divestiture activity among oil and natural gas producers; and. • overall domestic and global economic conditions.. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Any of the above factors could impact the level of oil and natural gas exploration and production activity and could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, future weakness in commodity prices could impact our business going forward, and we could encounter difficulties such as an inability to access needed capital on attractive terms or at all, recognizing asset impairment charges, an inability to meet financial ratios contained in our debt agreements, a need to reduce our capital spending and other similar impacts.. The cyclicality of the oil and natural gas industry may cause our operating results to fluctuate.. We derive a portion of our revenues from companies in the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry, a historically cyclical industry with levels of activity that are significantly affected by the levels and volatility of oil and natural gas prices. We have, and may in the future, experience significant fluctuations in operating results as a result of the reactions of our customers to changes in oil and natural gas prices. For example, prolonged low commodity prices experienced by the oil and natural gas industry during 2015 and the first part of 2016, combined with adverse changes in the capital and credit markets, caused many exploration and production companies to reduce their capital budgets and drilling activity. This resulted in a significant decline in demand for oilfield services and adversely impacted the prices oilfield services companies could charge for their services. In addition, a majority of the service revenue we earn is based upon a charge for a relatively short period of time (e.g., an hour, a day, a week) for the actual period of time the service is provided to our customers. By contracting services on a short-term basis, we are exposed to the risks of a rapid reduction in market prices and utilization, with resulting volatility in our revenues.. If oil prices or natural gas prices decline, the demand for our oil and natural gas services could be adversely affected.. The demand for our oil and natural gas services is primarily determined by current and anticipated oil and natural gas prices and the related general production spending and level of drilling activity in the areas in which we have operations. Volatility or weakness in oil prices or natural gas prices (or the perception that oil prices or natural gas prices will decrease) affects the spending patterns of our customers and may result in the drilling of fewer new wells or lower production spending on existing wells. This, in turn, could result in lower demand for our services and may cause lower rates and lower utilization of our well service equipment.. Any future decline in oil and gas prices could materially affect the demand for our services and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Prices for oil and natural gas historically have been extremely volatile and are expected to continue to be volatile in the years to come. During 2017, West Texas Intermediate posted prices ranged from $42.53 to $60.42 per Bbl and the Henry Hub spot market price of natural gas ranged from $2.56 to $3.72 per MMBtu. If the prices of oil and natural gas decline from current levels, our operations, financial condition and level of expenditures may be materially and adversely affected.. 24. Our business is difficult to evaluate because we have a limited operating history.. Mammoth Energy Services, Inc. was formed in June 2016, and did not conduct any material business operations prior to its initial public offering, or the IPO, which closed on October 19, 2016. Prior to the IPO, Mammoth Energy Services, Inc. was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mammoth Energy Partners LP, referred to as Mammoth Partners, which was originally formed in February 2014. Except as expressly noted otherwise, the historical financial information of Mammoth Energy Services, Inc. and operational data for the periods prior to October 12, 2016 is that of Mammoth Partners and its consolidated subsidiaries. These subsidiaries were formed or acquired between 2007 and 2016. As a result, there is only limited historical financial and operating information available upon which to base your evaluation of our performance.. Our customer base is concentrated and the loss of one or more of our significant customers, or their failure to pay the amounts they owe us, could cause our revenue to decline substantially.. Our top five customers accounted for approximately 71% and 80%, respectively, of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. Gulfport was our largest customer for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 accounting for approximately 30% and 57%, respectively, of our revenue. PREPA was our second largest customer for the year ended December 31, 2017 accounting for approximately 29% of our revenue. It is likely that we will continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of customers in the future. If a major customer decided not to continue to use our services, our revenue would decline and our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, we are subject to credit risk due to the concentration of our customer base. Any nonperformance by our counterparties, including their failure to pay the amounts they owe us on a timely basis or at all, either as a result of changes in financial and economic conditions or otherwise, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could adversely affect our liquidity.. Our failure to receive payment for contract change orders or adequately recover on claims brought by us against customers related to payment terms and costs could materially and adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We have in the past brought, and may in the future bring, claims against our customers related to, among other things, the payment terms of our contracts and change orders relating to such contracts. These types of claims can occur due to, among other things, customer-caused delays or changes in project scope, both of which may result in additional costs. In some instances, these claims can be the subject of lengthy legal proceedings, and it is difficult to predict the timing and outcome of such proceedings. Our failure to promptly and adequately recover on these types of claims could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. One of our infrastructure services subsidiaries recently entered into a contract with PREPA, which, as amended, provides for payments to us of up to $945.4 million. PREPA is currently subject to pending bankruptcy proceedings. In the event that PREPA does not have or does not obtain the funds necessary to satisfy its payment obligations to our subsidiary under the contract or terminates the contract prior to the end of the contract term, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. On October 19, 2017, one of our subsidiaries, Cobra, and PREPA entered into an emergency master services agreement for repairs to PREPA's electrical grid as a result of Hurricane Maria. The one-year contract, as amended through February 27, 2018, provides for payments of up to $945.4 million. PREPA is currently subject to bankruptcy proceedings pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of Puerto Rico. As a result, PREPA's ability to meet its payment obligations under the contract will be largely dependent upon funding from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, or FEMA, or other sources. PREPA's contracting practices in connection with restoration and repair of PREPA's electrical grid in Puerto Rico, and the terms of certain of those contracts, have been subject to critical comment and are the subject of review and hearings by U.S. federal and Puerto Rican governmental entities. Recently, a contract for restoration and repair services entered into by PREPA with an unrelated third party was terminated by PREPA. In the event that PREPA does not have or does not obtain the funds necessary to satisfy its current obligations to Cobra under the contract or terminates the contract prior to the end of the contract term, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, government contracts are subject to various uncertainties, restrictions and regulations, including oversight audits by government representatives and profit and cost controls, which could result in withholding or delayed payments to us or efforts to recover payments already made.. 25. We provide the majority of our hydraulic fracturing completion services to a limited number of customers, and the termination of one or more of these relationships could adversely affect our operations.. We provide completion services, which services include hydraulic fracturing. The majority of our revenue from this business is derived from Gulfport pursuant to a contract that expires in September 2018. We cannot assure you that we will be able to extend or renew our contract with Gulfport on favorable terms and conditions or at all. Likewise, we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain a replacement long-term contract with other customers sufficient to continue providing the level of services as we currently do with Gulfport. The termination of our relationship or nonrenewal of our contract with Gulfport, or one or more of our other customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We provide the majority of our infrastructure services to one customer, and the termination of this relationship could adversely affect our operations.. We provide infrastructure services that focus on the repair, maintenance and construction of transmission and distribution networks. The majority of our revenue from this business has been derived from PREPA pursuant to a contract entered into on October 19, 2017, as subsequently amended, with a term of up to one year. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue our contract with PREPA on favorable terms and conditions or at all. Likewise, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain one or more replacement contracts with other customers sufficient to continue providing the level of services as we currently do with PREPA. The termination of our relationship with PREPA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We provide natural sand proppant to a limited number of customers, and the termination of one or more of these relationships could adversely affect our operations.. We provide natural sand proppant used for hydraulic fracturing. Historically, we have derived a large portion of our revenue from this business from Gulfport pursuant to a contract that expires in September 2018. The termination of our relationship or nonrenewal of our contract with Gulfport, or one or more of our other customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Deterioration of the commodity price environment can negatively impact oil and natural gas exploration and production companies and, in some cases, impair their ability to timely pay for products or services provided or result in their insolvency or bankruptcy, any of which exposes us to credit risk of our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers.. In weak economic and commodity price environments, we may experience increased difficulties, delays or failures in collecting outstanding receivables from our customers, due to, among other reasons, a reduction in their cash flow from operations, their inability to access the credit markets and, in certain cases, their insolvencies. Such increases in collection issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We cannot assure you that the reserves we have established for potential credit losses will be sufficient to meet write-offs of uncollectible receivables or that our losses from such receivables will be consistent with our expectations. To the extent one or more of our key customers commences bankruptcy proceedings, our contracts with these customers may be subject to rejection under applicable provisions of the United States Bankruptcy Code, or may be renegotiated. Further, during any such bankruptcy proceeding, prior to assumption, rejection or renegotiation of such contracts, the bankruptcy court may temporarily authorize the payment of value for our services less than contractually required, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Delays and reductions in government appropriations can negatively impact energy infrastructure construction, maintenance and repair projects and may impair the ability of our energy infrastructure customers to timely pay for products or services provided or result in their insolvency or bankruptcy, any of which exposes us to credit risk of our infrastructure customers.. Many of our infrastructure customers derive funding from federal, state and local bodies.  Delayed or reduced appropriations may cancel, curtail or delay projects and may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. 26. Competition within the energy services industry may adversely affect our ability to market our services.. The energy services industry is highly competitive and fragmented and includes numerous small companies capable of competing effectively in our markets on a local basis, as well as large companies that possess substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. Our larger competitors' greater resources could allow those competitors to compete more effectively than we can. The amount of equipment available may exceed demand, which could result in active price competition. Many contracts are awarded on a bid basis, which may further increase competition based primarily on price. In addition, adverse market conditions lower demand for well servicing equipment, which results in excess equipment and lower utilization rates. If market conditions in our oil-oriented operating areas were to deteriorate or if adverse market conditions in our natural gas-oriented operating areas persist, utilization rates may decline.. Shortages, delays in delivery and interruptions in supply of drill pipe, replacement parts, other equipment, supplies and materials may adversely affect our contract land and directional drilling business or our pressure pumping business.. During periods of increased demand for drilling and completion services, the industry has experienced shortages of drill pipe, replacement parts, other equipment, supplies and materials, including, in the case of our pressure pumping operations, replacement parts, other equipment, proppants, acid, gel and water. These shortages can cause the price of these items to increase significantly and require that orders for the items be placed well in advance of expected use. In addition, any interruption in supply could result in significant delays in delivery of equipment and materials or prevent operations. Interruptions may be caused by, among other reasons:. • weather issues, whether short-term such as a hurricane, or long-term such as a drought; and. • shortage in the number of vendors able or willing to provide the necessary equipment, supplies and materials, including as a result of commitments of vendors to other customers or third parties.. These price increases, delays in delivery and interruptions in supply may require us to increase capital and repair expenditures and incur higher operating costs. Severe shortages, delays in delivery and interruptions in supply could limit our ability to construct and operate our drilling rigs or pressure pumping fleets and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. Oilfield services equipment, refurbishment and new asset construction projects, as well as the reactivation of oilfield service assets that have been idle for six months or longer, are subject to risks which could cause delays or cost overruns and adversely affect our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial position.. Oilfield services equipment or assets being upgraded, converted or re-activated following a period of inactivity may experience start-up complications and may encounter other operational problems that could result in significant delays, uncompensated downtime, reduced dayrates or the cancellation, termination or non-renewal of contracts. Construction and upgrade projects are subject to risks of delay or significant cost overruns inherent in any large construction project from numerous factors, including the following:. • shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor;. • unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment or shipyard construction;. • failure of equipment to meet quality and/or performance standards;. • financial or operating difficulties of equipment vendors;. • unanticipated actual or purported change orders;. • inability by us or our customers to obtain required permits or approvals, or to meet applicable regulatory standards in our areas of operations;. • unanticipated cost increases between order and delivery;. • adverse weather conditions and other events of force majeure;. • design or engineering changes; and. • work stoppages and other labor disputes.. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial position.. 27. Advancements in oilfield service technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The oilfield services industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services using new technologies. As new horizontal and directional drilling, pressure pumping, pressure control and well service technologies develop, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressure may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. We may not be able to successfully acquire or use new technologies. Further, our customers are increasingly demanding the services of newer, higher specification drilling rigs. There can be no assurance that we will:. • have sufficient capital resources to build new, technologically advanced equipment and other assets;. • successfully integrate additional oilfield service equipment and other assets;. • effectively manage the growth and increased size of our organization, equipment and other assets;. • successfully deploy idle, stacked or additional oilfield service assets;. • maintain crews necessary to operate additional drilling rigs or pressure pumping service equipment; or. • successfully improve our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects.. If we are not successful in building or acquiring new oilfield service equipment and other assets or upgrading our existing rigs and equipment in a timely and cost-effective manner, we could lose market share. New technologies, services or standards could render some of our services, equipment and other assets obsolete, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business depends upon our ability to obtain specialized equipment and parts from third-party suppliers, and we may be vulnerable to delayed deliveries and future price increases.. We purchase specialized equipment and parts from third party suppliers. At times during the business cycle, there is a high demand for hydraulic fracturing, coiled tubing and other oilfield services and extended lead times to obtain equipment needed to provide these services. Further, there are a limited number of suppliers that manufacture the equipment we use. Should our current suppliers be unable or unwilling to provide the necessary equipment and parts or otherwise fail to deliver the products timely and in the quantities required, any resulting delays in the provision of our services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, future price increases for this type of equipment and parts could negatively impact our ability to purchase new equipment to update or expand our existing fleet or to timely repair equipment in our existing fleet.. An increase in the prices of certain materials used in our businesses could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows.. We are exposed to market risk of increases in certain commodity prices of materials, such as copper and steel, which are used as components of supplies or materials utilized in some of our infrastructure and pressure pumping businesses.  An increase in these materials could increase our operating costs, limit our ability to service our customers' needs or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows.. Inaccuracies in estimates of volumes and qualities of our sand reserves could result in lower than expected sales and higher than expected production costs.. On May 26, 2017, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Chieftain Sand and Proppant, LLC and Chieftain Sand and Proppant Barron, LLC, unrelated third party sellers, following our successful bid in a bankruptcy court auction, which assets include a wet and dry plant and sand mine located on approximately 608 acres in New Auburn, Wisconsin. Also, on June 5, 2017, we acquired from Gulfport, certain affiliates of Wexford Capital LP, which we refer to as Wexford, and Rhino Exploration LLC, which we refer to as Rhino, all outstanding membership interests in Sturgeon Acquisitions LLC, which owns Taylor Frac, LLC, Taylor Real Estate Investments, LLC and South River Road, LLC (collectively referred to as Taylor Frac). These acquisitions added sand reserves to our operations and increased our production capacity.. Estimates of our sand reserves are by nature imprecise and depend to some extent on statistical inferences drawn from available data, which may prove unreliable. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of sand reserves and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of economically recoverable sand reserves necessarily depend on a number of factors and assumptions, all of which may vary considerably from actual results, such as:. 28. • geological and mining conditions and/or effects from prior mining that may not be fully identified by available data or that may differ from experience;. • assumptions concerning future prices of frac sand, operating costs, mining technology improvements, development costs and reclamation costs; and. • assumptions concerning future effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits and taxes by governmental agencies.. Any inaccuracy in the estimates related to our sand reserves could result in lower than expected sales and higher than expected costs. For example, these estimates assume that our revenue and cost structure will remain relatively constant over the life of our reserves. If these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, some or all of our reserves may not be economically mineable, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our current customer contracts require us to deliver frac sand that meets certain specifications. If the estimates of the quality of our sand reserves, including the volumes of the various specifications of those reserves, prove to be inaccurate, we may incur significantly higher excavation costs without corresponding increases in revenues, we may not be able to meet our contractual obligations, or our facilities may have a shorter than expected reserve life, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. As part of our natural sand proppant services business, we rely on third parties for raw materials and transportation, and the suspension or termination of our relationship with one or more of these third parties could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows.. As part of our natural sand proppant services business, we mine and process sand into premium monocrystalline sand, a specialized mineral that is used as a proppant (also known as frac sand) at our Barron County and Jackson County, Wisconsin plants.  We also buy processed sand from suppliers on the spot market. In addition, we also buy raw or washed sand and process it at our indoor sand processing plant located in Pierce County, Wisconsin. We sell natural sand proppant to our customers for use in their hydraulic fracturing operations to enhance the recovery rates of hydrocarbons from oil and natural gas wells. We also provide logistics solutions to deliver our frac sand products to our customers. Because our customers generally find it impractical to store frac sand in large quantities near their job sites, they seek to arrange for product to be delivered where and as needed, which requires predictable and efficient loading and shipping of product. To facilitate our logistics and transload facility capabilities, we contract with third party providers to transport our frac sand products to railroad facilities for delivery to our customers. We also lease a railcar fleet from various third parties to deliver our frac sand products to our customers and lease or otherwise utilize origin and destination transloading facilities. The suspension, termination or nonrenewal of our relationship with any one or more of these third parties involved in the sourcing, transportation and delivery of our frac sand products could result in material operational delays, increase our operating costs, limit our ability to service our customers' wells or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Future performance of our natural sand proppant services business will depend on our ability to succeed in competitive markets, and on our ability to appropriately react to potential fluctuations in the demand for and supply of frac sand.. In our natural sand proppant services business, we operate in a highly competitive market that is characterized by a small number of large, national producers and a larger number of small, regional or local producers. Competition in the industry is based on price, consistency and quality of product, site location, distribution and logistics capabilities, customer service, reliability of supply and breadth of product offering. The large, national producers with whom we compete include Badger Mining Corporation, Fairmount Santrol Holdings, Inc., Hi-Crush Partners LP, Preferred Proppants LLC, Unimin Corporation, Smart Sand, Inc., Emerge Energy Services LP and U.S. Silica Holdings Inc. Our larger competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we do, may develop technology superior to ours, may have production facilities that are located closer to sand mines from which raw sand is mined or to their key customers than our facilities or have a more cost effective access to raw sand and transportation facilities than we do. Should the demand for hydraulic fracturing services decrease, prices in the frac sand market could materially decrease as producers may seek to preserve market share or exit the market and sell frac sand at below market prices. In addition, oil and natural gas exploration and production companies and other providers of hydraulic fracturing services could acquire their own frac sand reserves, develop or expand frac sand production capacity or otherwise fulfill their own proppant requirements and existing or new frac sand producers could add to or expand their frac sand production capacity, which may negatively impact pricing and demand for our frac sand. We may not be able to compete successfully against either our larger or smaller competitors in the future, and competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 29. An increase in the supply of raw frac sand having similar characteristics as the raw frac sand we produce and sell could make it more difficult for us to market our sand on favorable terms or at all.. From time to time we have entered into take-or-pay contracts with our principal raw frac sand supplier for our Pierce County, Wisconsin plant. If significant new reserves of raw frac sand continue to be discovered and developed, and those frac sands have similar characteristics to the frac sand we produce and sell, the market price for our frac sand may decline. If the market price for our frac sand falls below an amount equal to the contracted purchase price in our take-or-pay contract plus our processing and related transportation costs, this could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows over the remaining term of this contract.. Diminished access to water and inability to secure or maintain necessary permits may adversely affect operations of our frac sand processing plants.. The processing of raw sand and production of natural sand proppant require significant amounts of water. As a result, securing water rights and water access is necessary to operate our processing facilities. If the areas where our facilities are located experience water shortages, restrictions or any other constraints due to drought, contamination or otherwise, there may be additional costs associated with securing water access. Although we have obtained water rights to service our activities when we are operating our processing plants, the amount of water that we are entitled to use pursuant to our water rights must be determined by the appropriate regulatory authorities. Such regulatory authorities may amend the regulations regarding such water rights, increase the cost of maintaining such water rights or eliminate our current water rights, and we may be unable to retain all or a portion of such water rights. If implemented, these new regulations could also affect local municipalities and other industrial operations and could have a material adverse effect on costs involved in operating our processing plant. Such changes in laws, regulations or government policy and related interpretations pertaining to water rights may alter the environment in which we do business, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, a water discharge permit may be required to properly dispose of water at our processing sites when in operation. Certain of our facilities are also required to obtain storm water permits. The water discharge, storm water or any other permits we may be required to have in order to conduct our frac sand processing operations is subject to regulatory discretion, and any inability to obtain or maintain the necessary permits could have an adverse effect on our ability to run such operations.. Demand for our frac sand products could be reduced by changes in well stimulation processes and technologies, as well as changes in governmental regulations and other applicable law.. As part of our natural sand proppant services business, we mine, process and sell frac sand products to our customers for use in their hydraulic fracturing operations to enhance the recovery rates of hydrocarbons from oil and natural gas wells. A significant shift in demand from frac sand to other proppants, or the development of new processes to replace hydraulic fracturing altogether, could cause a decline in the demand for the frac sand we produce and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, federal and state governments and agencies have adopted various laws and regulations or are evaluating proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing, a process which utilizes proppants such as those that we produce. Future hydraulic fracturing-related legislation or regulations could restrict the ability of our customers to utilize, or increase the cost associated with, hydraulic fracturing, which could reduce demand for our proppants and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For additional information regarding the regulation of hydraulic fracturing, see \"  - Risks Related to Our Business and the Oil and Natural Gas Industry - Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.\". The customized nature, and remote location, of the modular camps that we provide and service present unique challenges that could adversely affect our ability to successfully operate our remote accommodations business.. We rely on a third-party subcontractor to manufacture and install the customized modular units used in our remote accommodations business. These customized units often take a considerable amount of time to manufacture and, once manufactured, often need to be delivered to remote areas that are frequently difficult to access by traditional means of transportation. In the event we are unable to provide these modular units in a timely fashion, we may not be entitled to full, or any, payment therefor under the terms of our contracts with customers. In addition, the remote location of the modular camps often makes it difficult to install and maintain the units, and our failure, on a timely basis, to have such units installed and provide maintenance services could result in our breach of, and non-payment by our customers under, the terms of our customer contracts. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our remote accommodation business and our overall financial condition and results of operations.. 30. Health and food safety issues and food-borne illness concerns could adversely affect our remote accommodations business.. We provide food services to our customers as part of our remote accommodations business and, as a result, face health and food safety issues that are common in the food and hospitality industries. Food-borne illnesses, such as E. coli, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella, and food safety issues have occurred in the food industry in the past and could occur in the future. Our reliance on third-party food suppliers and distributors increases the risk that food-borne illness incidents could be caused by factors outside of our control. New illnesses resistant to any precautions may develop in the future, or diseases with long incubation periods could arise. Further, the remote nature of our accommodation facilities and related food services may increase the risk of contamination of our food supply and create additional health and hygiene concerns due to the limited access to modern amenities and conveniences that may not be faced by other food service providers or hospitality businesses operating in an urban environment. If our customers become ill from food-borne illness, we could be forced to close some or all of our remote accommodation facilities on a temporary basis or otherwise. Any such incidents and/or any report of publicity linking us to incidents of food-borne illness or other food safety issues, including food tampering or contamination, could adversely affect our remote accommodations business as well as our overall financial condition and results of operations.. Development of permanent infrastructure in the Canadian oil sands region or other locations where we locate our remote accommodations could negatively impact our remote accommodations business.. Our remote accommodations business specializes in providing modular housing and related services for work forces in remote areas which lack the infrastructure typically available in towns and cities. If permanent towns, cities and municipal infrastructure develop in the oil sands region of northern Alberta, Canada or other regions where we locate our modular camps, then demand for our accommodations could decrease as customer employees move to the region and choose to utilize permanent housing and food services.. Revenue generated and expenses incurred by our remote accommodation business are denominated in the Canadian dollar and could be negatively impacted by currency fluctuations.. Our remote accommodation business generates revenue and incurs expenses that are denominated in the Canadian dollar. These transactions could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. Changes in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our combined results of operations or financial position. We also maintain cash balances denominated in the Canadian dollar. At December 31, 2017, we had $2.5 million of cash in Canadian dollars, in Canadian accounts. A 10% increase in the strength of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar would have resulted in an increase in pre-tax income of approximately $0.1 million as of December 31, 2017. Conversely, a corresponding decrease in the strength of the Canadian dollar would have resulted in a comparable decrease in pre-tax income. We have not hedged our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and, as a result, could incur unanticipated translation gains and losses.. Certain of our completion and production services, particularly our hydraulic fracturing services, are substantially dependent on the availability of water. Restrictions on our ability, or our customers' ability, to obtain water may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Water is an essential component of deep shale oil and natural gas production during both the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Over the past several years, certain of the areas have experienced extreme drought conditions and competition for water in such shales is growing. As a result of this severe drought, some local water districts have begun restricting the use of water subject to their jurisdiction for hydraulic fracturing to protect local water supply. Our inability, or customers' inability, to obtain water to use in our operations from local sources or to effectively utilize flowback water could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We rely on a few key employees whose absence or loss could adversely affect our business.. Many key responsibilities within our business have been assigned to a small number of employees. The loss of their services could adversely affect our business. In particular, the loss of the services of our Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer could disrupt our operations. We do not have any written employment agreement with our executives at this time. Further, we do not maintain \"key person\" life insurance policies on any of our employees. As a result, we are not insured against any losses resulting from the death of our key employees.. If we are unable to employ a sufficient number of skilled and qualified workers, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired.. 31. The delivery of our products and services requires skilled and qualified workers with specialized skills and experience who can perform physically demanding work. As a result of the volatility of the energy services industry and the demanding nature of the work, workers may choose to pursue employment in fields that offer a more desirable work environment at wage rates that are competitive. Our ability to be productive and profitable will depend upon our ability to employ and retain skilled workers. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled workers is high, and the supply is limited. As a result, competition for experienced energy service personnel is intense, and we face significant challenges in competing for crews and management with large and well established competitors. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. If either of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired.. Unionization efforts could increase our costs or limit our flexibility.. Presently, none of our employees work under collective bargaining agreements. Unionization efforts have been made from time to time within our industries, to varying degrees of success. Any such unionization could increase our costs or limit our flexibility.. Our operations may be limited or disrupted in certain parts of the continental U.S., Puerto Rico and Canada during severe weather conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We provide pressure pumping and well services and contract land and directional drilling services in the Utica, SCOOP, STACK, Permian Basin, Marcellus, Granite Wash, Cana Woodford and Eagle Ford resource plays located in the continental U.S. We provide infrastructure services in the northeast, southwest and midwest portions of the United States and Puerto Rico. We provide remote accommodation services in the oil sands in Alberta, Canada. We serve these markets through our facilities and service centers located in Ohio, Oklahoma, Texas, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Kentucky, Puerto Rico and Alberta, Canada. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we generated approximately 42% and 84%, respectively, of our revenue from our operations in Ohio, Wisconsin, Minnesota, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Canada where weather conditions may be severe, particularly during winter and spring months. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include:. • curtailment of services;. • weather-related damage to equipment resulting in suspension of operations;. • weather-related damage to our facilities;. • inability to deliver equipment and materials to jobsites in accordance with contract schedules; and. • loss of productivity.. Many municipalities, including those in Ohio and Wisconsin, impose bans or other restrictions on the use of roads and highways, which include weight restrictions on the paved roads that lead to our jobsites due to the muddy conditions caused by spring thaws. This can limit our access to these jobsites and our ability to service wells in these areas. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs in those regions. Weather conditions may also affect the price of crude oil and natural gas, and related demand for our services. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Concerns over general economic, business or industry conditions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. Concerns over global economic conditions, energy costs, geopolitical issues, inflation, the availability and cost of credit and the European, Asian and the United States financial markets have contributed to economic uncertainty and diminished expectations for the global economy. These factors, combined with volatility in commodity prices, business and consumer confidence and unemployment rates, have in the past precipitated and may in the future precipitate an economic slowdown. Concerns about global economic growth may have a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and commodity prices. If the economic climate in the United States or abroad deteriorates, worldwide demand for petroleum products could diminish, which could impact the price at which oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids can be sold, which could affect the ability of our customers to continue operations and ultimately adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business.. 32. The occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks in the United States or other countries, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflicts involving the United States or other countries, including continued hostilities in the Middle East, may adversely affect the United States and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations. If any of these events occur, the resulting political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for oil and natural gas, potentially putting downward pressure on demand for our services and causing a reduction in our revenues. Oil and natural gas related facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our customers' operations is destroyed or damaged. Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all.. Our operations require substantial capital and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms or at all, which could limit our ability to grow.. Our capital budget for 2018 is estimated to be $125 million. Since November 2014, we have funded our capital expenditures primarily with cash on hand, cash proceeds from our initial public offering, cash generated by operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility (other than our acquisitions in June 2017, which we completed with the issuance of shares of our common stock). We may be unable to generate sufficient cash from operations and other capital resources to maintain planned or future levels of capital expenditures which, among other things, may prevent us from acquiring new equipment or properly maintaining our existing equipment. Further, any disruptions or continuing volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. This could put us at a competitive disadvantage or interfere with our growth plans. Further, our actual capital expenditures for 2018 or future years could exceed our capital expenditure budget. In the event our capital expenditure requirements at any time are greater than the amount we have available, we could be required to seek additional sources of capital, which may include debt financing, joint venture partnerships, sales of assets, offerings of debt or equity securities or other means. We may not be able to obtain any such alternative source of capital. We may be required to curtail or eliminate contemplated activities. If we can obtain alternative sources of capital, the terms of such alternative may not be favorable to us. In particular, the terms of any debt financing may include covenants that significantly restrict our operations. Our inability to grow as planned may reduce our chances of maintaining and improving profitability.. The growth of our business through acquisitions may expose us to various risks, including those relating to difficulties in identifying suitable, accretive acquisition opportunities and integrating businesses, assets and personnel, as well as difficulties in obtaining financing for targeted acquisitions and the potential for increased leverage or debt service requirements.. As a component of our business strategy, we have pursued and intend to continue to pursue selected, accretive acquisitions of complementary assets, businesses and technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including:. • unanticipated costs and assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired businesses, including but not limited to environmental liabilities;. • difficulties in integrating the operations and assets of the acquired business and the acquired personnel;. • limitations on our ability to properly assess and maintain an effective internal control environment over an acquired business, in order to comply with public reporting requirements;. • potential losses of key employees and customers of the acquired businesses;. • inability to commercially develop acquired technologies;. • risks of entering markets in which we have limited prior experience; and. • increases in our expenses and working capital requirements.. The process of integrating an acquired business may involve unforeseen costs and delays or other operational, technical and financial difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of management attention and financial and other resources. Our failure to achieve consolidation savings, to incorporate the acquired businesses and assets into our existing operations successfully or to minimize any unforeseen operational difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, there is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industries. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. In addition, we may not have sufficient capital resources to complete additional acquisitions. Historically, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with funding from our initial public offering, cash generated by operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and funding from our equity investors. We may incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions and also may issue equity, debt or convertible securities in connection with such acquisitions. Debt service requirements could represent a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition and the issuance of additional equity or convertible securities could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms. Even if we have access to the necessary capital, we may be unable to continue. 33. to identify additional suitable acquisition opportunities, negotiate acceptable terms or successfully acquire identified targets. Our ability to grow through acquisitions and manage growth will require us to continue to invest in operational, financial and management information systems and to attract, retain, motivate and effectively manage our employees. The inability to effectively manage the integration of acquisitions could reduce our focus on subsequent acquisitions and current operations, which, in turn, could negatively impact our earnings and growth. Our financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period, based on whether or not significant acquisitions are completed in particular periods.. We may have difficulty managing growth in our business, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. As a recently formed company, growth in accordance with our business plan, if achieved, could place a significant strain on our financial, technical, operational and management resources. As we expand the scope of our activities and our geographic coverage through both organic growth and acquisitions, there will be additional demands on our financial, technical, operational and management resources. The failure to continue to upgrade our technical, administrative, operating and financial control systems or the occurrences of unexpected expansion difficulties, including the failure to recruit and retain experienced managers, engineers and other professionals in the energy services industry, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to successfully or timely execute our business plan.. If our intended expansion of our business is not successful, our financial condition, profitability and results of operations could be adversely affected, and we may not achieve increases in revenue and profitability that we hope to realize.. A key element of our business strategy involves the expansion of our services, geographic presence and customer base. These aspects of our strategy are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including:. • an inability to retain or hire experienced crews and other personnel;. • a lack of customer demand for the services we intend to provide;. • an inability to secure necessary equipment, raw materials (particularly sand and other proppants) or technology to successfully execute our expansion plans;. • shortages of water used in our sand processing operations and our hydraulic fracturing operations;. • unanticipated delays that could limit or defer the provision of services by us and jeopardize our relationships with existing customers and adversely affect our ability to obtain new customers for such services; and. • competition from new and existing services providers.. Encountering any of these or any unforeseen problems in implementing our planned expansion could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and could prevent us from achieving the increases in revenues and profitability that we hope to realize.. Our liquidity needs could restrict our operations and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions.. Our future indebtedness, whether incurred in connection with acquisitions, operations or otherwise, may adversely affect our operations and limit our growth, and we may have difficulty making debt service payments on such indebtedness as payments become due. Our level of indebtedness may affect our operations in several ways, including the following:. • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • the covenants that are contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness could limit our ability to borrow funds, dispose of assets, pay dividends and make certain investments;. • our debt covenants could also affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in the economy and in our industries;. • any failure to comply with the financial or other covenants of our debt, including covenants that impose requirements to maintain certain financial ratios, could result in an event of default, which could result in some or all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable;. • our level of debt could impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; and. • our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable us to meet our obligations under our indebtedness.. 34. Our revolving credit facility imposes, and any of our future credit facilities may impose, restrictions on us that may affect our ability to successfully operate our business.. Our revolving credit facility limits, and any of our future credit facilities may limit, our ability to take various actions, such as:. • incurring additional indebtedness;. • paying dividends;. • creating certain additional liens on our assets;. • entering into sale and leaseback transactions;. • making investments;. • entering into transactions with affiliates;. • making material changes to the type of business we conduct or our business structure;. • making guarantees;. • entering into hedges;. • disposing of assets in excess of certain permitted amounts;. • merging or consolidating with other entities; and. • selling all or substantially all of our assets.. In addition, our revolving credit facility requires, and any future debt may require, us to maintain certain financial ratios and to satisfy certain financial conditions, which may require us to reduce our debt or take some other action in order to comply with each of them. These restrictions could also limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a downturn in our business or the economy in general, or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We also may be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facility and any future debt agreements. If we fail to comply with the covenants in our existing revolving credit facility or any future debt agreements and such failure is not waived by the lender, a default may be declared by the lenders, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. Our revolving credit facility provides, and any future credit facilities may provide, for variable interest rates, which may increase or decrease our interest expense.. At December 31, 2017, we had $99.9 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility bearing a weighted average interest rate of 4.37%. At December 31, 2017, availability under our credit facility was $62.8 million, after giving effect to $6.5 million of outstanding letters of credit. A 1% increase or decrease in the interest rate at that time would have increased or decreased our interest expense by approximately $1.0 million per year. We do not currently hedge our interest rate exposure.. We may not be able to provide services that meet the specific needs of oil and natural gas exploration and production companies or utilities at competitive prices.. The markets in which we operate are generally highly competitive and have relatively few barriers to entry. The principal competitive factors in our markets are price, product and service quality and availability, responsiveness, experience, technology, equipment quality and reputation for safety. We compete with large national and multi-national companies that have longer operating histories, greater financial, technical and other resources and greater name recognition than we do. Several of our competitors provide a broader array of services and have a stronger presence in more geographic markets. In addition, we compete with several smaller companies capable of competing effectively on a regional or local basis. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and services and changes in customer requirements. Some contracts are awarded on a bid basis, which further increases competition based on price. Pricing is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. The competitive environment may be further intensified by mergers and acquisitions among oil and natural gas or utility companies or other events that have the effect of reducing the number of available customers. As a result of competition, we may lose market share or be unable to maintain or increase prices for our present services or to acquire additional business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition, some exploration and production companies have begun performing hydraulic fracturing and directional drilling on their wells using their own equipment and personnel. Any increase in the development and utilization of in-house fracturing and directional drilling capabilities by our customers could decrease the demand for our oil and natural gas services and have a material adverse impact on our business.. 35. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas and energy infrastructure industries, which could expose us to substantial liability and cause us to lose customers and substantial revenue.. Our operations include hazards inherent in the oil and natural gas and energy infrastructure industries, such as equipment defects, vehicle accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, surface cratering, uncontrollable flows of gas or well fluids, pipe or pipeline failures, abnormally pressured formations and various environmental hazards such as oil spills and releases of, and exposure to, hazardous substances. For example, our operations are subject to risks associated with hydraulic fracturing, including any mishandling, surface spillage or potential underground migration of fracturing fluids, including chemical additives. The occurrence of any of these events could result in substantial losses to us due to injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties, suspension of operations and repairs required to resume operations. The cost of managing such risks may be significant. The frequency and severity of such incidents will affect operating costs, insurability and relationships with customers, employees and regulators. In particular, our customers may elect not to purchase our services if they view our environmental or safety record as unacceptable, which could cause us to lose customers and substantial revenues. In addition, these risks may be greater for us than some of our competitors because we sometimes acquire companies that may not have allocated significant resources and management focus to safety and environmental matters and may have a poor environmental and safety record and associated possible exposure. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we may suffer. Also, insurance may no longer be available to us or, if it is, its availability may be at premium levels that do not justify its purchase. The occurrence of a significant uninsured claim, a claim in excess of the insurance coverage limits maintained by us or a claim at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct normal business operations and on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we may not be able to secure additional insurance or bonding that might be required by new governmental regulations. This may cause us to restrict our operations, which might severely impact our financial position.. Since hydraulic fracturing activities are part of our operations, they are covered by our insurance against claims made for bodily injury, property damage and clean-up costs stemming from a sudden and accidental pollution event. However, we may not have coverage if we are unaware of the pollution event and unable to report the \"occurrence\" to our insurance company within the time frame required under our insurance policy. We have no coverage for gradual, long-term pollution events. In addition, these policies do not provide coverage for all liabilities, and the insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover claims that may arise, or we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance at rates we consider reasonable. A loss not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that may subject us to substantial liability or require us to take actions that will adversely affect our results of operations.. Our business is significantly affected by stringent and complex federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of substances into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection and health and safety matters. As part of our business, we handle, transport and dispose of a variety of fluids and substances, including hydraulic fracturing fluids which can contain hydrochloric acid and certain petrochemicals. This activity poses some risks of environmental liability, including leakage of hazardous substances from the wells to surface and subsurface soils, surface water or groundwater. We also handle, transport and store these substances. The handling, transportation, storage and disposal of these fluids are regulated by a number of laws, including: the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; the Clean Water Act; the Safe Drinking Water Act; and other federal and state laws and regulations promulgated thereunder. The cost of compliance with these laws can be significant. Failure to properly handle, transport or dispose of these materials or otherwise conduct our operations in accordance with these and other environmental laws could expose us to substantial liability for administrative, civil and criminal penalties, cleanup and site restoration costs and liability associated with releases of such materials, damages to natural resources and other damages, as well as potentially impair our ability to conduct our operations. We could be exposed to liability for cleanup costs, natural resource damages and other damages under these and other environmental laws. Such liability is commonly on a strict, joint and several liability basis, without regard to fault. Liability may be imposed as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Environmental laws and regulations have changed in the past, and they are likely to change in the future. If existing environmental requirements or enforcement policies change and become more stringent, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures.. Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for oil and natural gas.. 36. In recent years, federal, state and local governments have taken steps to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, or GHGs. The Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, has finalized a series of GHG monitoring, reporting and emissions control rules for the oil and natural gas industry, and the U.S. Congress has, from time to time, considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions. Almost one-half of the states have already taken measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap-and-trade programs. While we are subject to certain federal GHG monitoring and reporting requirements, our operations currently are not adversely impacted by existing federal, state and local climate change initiatives. For a description of existing and proposed GHG rules and regulations, see \" - Regulation of Hydraulic Fracturing.\". At the international level, in December 2015, the United States participated in the 21st Conference of the Parties (COP-21) of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France. The resulting Paris Agreement calls for the parties to undertake \"ambitious efforts\" to limit the average global temperature, and to conserve and enhance sinks and reservoirs of GHGs. The Agreement went into effect on November 4, 2016. The Agreement establishes a framework for the parties to cooperate and report actions to reduce GHG emissions. However, on June 1, 2017, President Trump announced that the United States would withdraw from the Paris Agreement, and begin negotiations to either re-enter or negotiate an entirely new agreement with more favorable terms for the United States. The Paris Agreement sets forth a specific exit process, whereby a party may not provide notice of its withdrawal until three years from the effective date, with such withdrawal taking effect one year from such notice. It is not clear what steps the Trump Administration plans to take to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, whether a new agreement can be negotiated or what terms would be included in such an agreement. Furthermore, in response to the announcement, many state and local leaders have stated their intent to intensify efforts to uphold the commitments set forth in the international accord.. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. In addition, substantial limitations on GHG emissions could adversely affect demand for oil and natural gas and, consequently, the services we provide.. In addition, there have also been efforts in recent years to influence the investment community, including investment. advisors and certain sovereign wealth, pension and endowment funds promoting divestment of fossil fuel equities and pressuring lenders to limit funding to companies engaged in the extraction of fossil fuel reserves. Such environmental activism and initiatives aimed at limiting climate change and reducing air pollution could interfere with our business activities, operations and ability to access capital. Furthermore, claims have been made against certain energy companies alleging that GHG emissions from oil and natural gas operations constitute a public nuisance under federal and/or state common law. As a result, private individuals or public entities may seek to enforce environmental laws and regulations against us and could allege personal injury, property damage or other liabilities. While our business is not a party to any such litigation, we could be named in actions making similar allegations. An unfavorable ruling in any such case could significantly impact our operations and could have an adverse impact on our financial condition.. Moreover, climate change may cause more extreme weather conditions such as more intense hurricanes,. thunderstorms, tornadoes and snow or ice storms, as well as rising sea levels and increased volatility in seasonal. temperatures. Extreme weather conditions can interfere with our productivity and increase our costs and damage resulting. from extreme weather may not be fully insured. However, at this time, we are unable to determine the extent to which climate. change may lead to increased storm or weather hazards affecting our operations.. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.. Our business is dependent on our ability to conduct hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling activities. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations, including shales. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals (also called \"proppants\") under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. There has been increasing public controversy regarding hydraulic fracturing with regard to the use of fracturing fluids, induced seismic activity, impacts on drinking water supplies, use of water and the potential for impacts to surface water, groundwater and the environment generally. A number of lawsuits and enforcement actions have been initiated across the country implicating hydraulic fracturing practices. The hydraulic fracturing process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. However, legislation has been proposed in recent sessions of Congress to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, or SDWA, to repeal the exemption for hydraulic fracturing from the definition of \"underground injection,\" to require federal permitting and regulatory control of hydraulic fracturing, and to require disclosure of the chemical constituents of the fluids. 37. used in the fracturing process. Furthermore, several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. In addition, several states and local jurisdictions in which we operate have adopted or are considering adopting regulations that could restrict or prohibit hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances, impose more stringent operating standards and/or require the disclosure of the composition of hydraulic fracturing fluids.. If new laws or regulations are adopted that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations as well as make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing is further regulated at the federal, state or local level, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting and financial assurance requirements, more stringent construction specifications, increased monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping obligations and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs, which could reduce the demand for our services. Such legislative or regulatory changes could cause us to incur substantial compliance costs, and compliance or the consequences of any failure to comply by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. At this time, it is not possible to estimate the impact on our business of newly enacted or potential federal, state or local laws governing hydraulic fracturing.. Our operations in our natural sand proppant services business are dependent on our rights and ability to mine our properties and on our having renewed or received the required permits and approvals from governmental authorities and other third parties.. We hold numerous governmental, environmental, mining and other permits, water rights and approvals authorizing operations at our production facilities. For our extraction and processing in Wisconsin, the permitting process is subject to federal, state and local authority. For example, at the federal level, a Mine Identification Request must be filed and obtained before mining commences. If wetlands are implicated, a U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Wetland Permit is required. At the state level, a series of permits are required related to air quality, wetlands, water quality (waste water and storm water), grading, endangered species and archaeological assessments in addition to other permits depending upon site specific factors and operational detail. At the local level, zoning, building, storm water, erosion control, wellhead protection, road usage and access are all regulated and require permitting to some degree. A non-metallic mining reclamation permit is required. A decision by a governmental agency or other third party to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations.. Title to, and the area of, mineral properties and water rights may also be disputed. Mineral properties sometimes contain claims or transfer histories that examiners cannot verify. A successful claim that we do not have title to our property or lack appropriate water rights could cause us to lose any rights to explore, develop and extract minerals, without compensation for our prior expenditures relating to such property. Our business may suffer a material adverse effect in the event we have title deficiencies.. In some instances, we have received access rights or easements from third parties, which allow for a more efficient operation than would exist without the access or easement. A third party could take action to suspend the access or easement, and any such action could be materially adverse to our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.. Penalties, fines or sanctions that may be imposed by the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration could have a material adverse effect on our proppant production and sales business and our overall financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration, or MSHA, has primary regulatory jurisdiction over commercial silica operations, including quarries, surface mines, underground mines, and industrial mineral process facilities. In addition, MSHA representatives perform at least two annual inspections of our production facilities to ensure employee and general site safety. As a result of these and future inspections and alleged violations and potential violations, we and our suppliers could be subject to material fines, penalties or sanctions. Any of our production facilities or our suppliers' mines could be subject to a temporary or extended shut down as a result of an alleged MSHA violation. Any such penalties, fines or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our proppant production and sales business and our overall financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 38. Increasing trucking regulations may increase our costs and negatively impact our results of operations.. In connection with our business operations, including the transportation and relocation of our energy service equipment and shipment of frac sand, we operate trucks and other heavy equipment. As such, we operate as a motor carrier in providing certain of our services and therefore are subject to regulation by the United States Department of Transportation and by various state agencies. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers, governing activities such as the authorization to engage in motor carrier operations, driver licensing, insurance requirements, financial reporting and review of certain mergers, consolidations and acquisitions, and transportation of hazardous materials (HAZMAT). Our trucking operations are subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may increase our costs. Some of these possible changes include increasingly stringent environmental regulations, changes in the hours of service regulations which govern the amount of time a driver may drive or work in any specific period, onboard black box recorder device requirements or limits on vehicle weight and size. Interstate motor carrier operations are subject to safety requirements prescribed by the United States Department of Transportation. To a large degree, intrastate motor carrier operations are subject to state safety regulations that mirror federal regulations. Matters such as the weight and dimensions of equipment are also subject to federal and state regulations. From time to time, various legislative proposals are introduced, including proposals to increase federal, state, or local taxes, including taxes on motor fuels, which may increase our costs or adversely impact the recruitment of drivers. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any increase in such taxes applicable to us will be enacted.. Certain motor vehicle operators require registration with the Department of Transportation. This registration requires an acceptable operating record. The Department of Transportation periodically conducts compliance reviews and may revoke registration privileges based on certain safety performance criteria that could result in a suspension of operations.. Restrictions on drilling activities intended to protect certain species of wildlife may adversely affect our ability to conduct mining or drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate.. Oil and natural gas operations in our operating areas can be adversely affected by seasonal or permanent restrictions on mining or drilling activities designed to protect various wildlife, which may limit our ability to operate in protected areas. Permanent restrictions imposed to protect endangered species could prohibit drilling in certain areas or require the implementation of expensive mitigation measures. Additionally, the designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where we operate could result in increased costs arising from species protection measures. Restrictions on oil and natural gas operations to protect wildlife could reduce demand for our services.. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and natural gas and our services.. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and natural gas, resulting in reduced demand for oilfield services. The impact of the changing demand for oil and natural gas services and products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Recently enacted U.S. tax legislation as well as compliance with and future changes in tax law and regulations may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law Public Law No. 115-97, a comprehensive tax reform bill commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act, that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. Among other changes, the Tax Act (i) permanently reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate, (ii) provides for a transition tax (toll tax) on a one-time \"deemed repatriation\" of accumulated foreign earnings, (iii) repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax, (iv) imposes new limitations on the utilization of net operating losses, and (v) provides for more general changes to the taxation of corporations, including changes to the deductibility of interest expense, the adoption of a modified territorial tax system, and introducing certain anti-base erosion provisions. The Tax Act is complex and far-reaching, and we cannot predict with certainty the resulting impact its enactment will have on us. The ultimate impact of the Tax Act may differ from our estimates due to changes in interpretations and assumptions made by us as well as additional regulatory guidance that may be issued, and any such changes in our interpretations and assumptions could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. In addition, we are subject to tax liabilities imposed by multiple jurisdictions, including income taxes, indirect taxes (excise/duty, sales/use and value-added taxes), payroll taxes, franchise taxes, withholding taxes and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed that could result in increased expenditures for tax liabilities in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, many of these liabilities are subject to periodic audits by the. 39. respective taxing authority. Subsequent changes to our tax liabilities as a result of these audits may subject us to interest and penalties.. Losses and liabilities from uninsured or underinsured activities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations.. The operational insurance coverage we maintain for our business may not fully insure us against all risks, either because insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs relative to perceived risk. Further, any insurance obtained by us may not be adequate to cover any losses or liabilities and this insurance may not continue to be available at all or on terms which are acceptable to us. Insurance rates have in the past been subject to wide fluctuation and changes in coverage could result in less coverage, increases in cost or higher deductibles and retentions. Liabilities for which we are not insured, or which exceed the policy limits of our applicable insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations.. We may be subject to claims for personal injury and property damage, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We operate with most of our customers under master service agreements, or MSAs. We endeavor to allocate potential liabilities and risks between the parties in the MSAs. Generally, under our MSAs, including those relating to our hydraulic fracturing services, we assume responsibility for, including control and removal of, pollution or contamination which originates above surface and originates from our equipment or services. Our customer assumes responsibility for, including control and removal of, all other pollution or contamination which may occur during operations, including that which may result from seepage or any other uncontrolled flow of drilling fluids. We may have liability in such cases if we are negligent or commit willful acts. Generally, our customers also agree to indemnify us against claims arising from their employees' personal injury or death to the extent that, in the case of our hydraulic fracturing operations, their employees are injured or their properties are damaged by such operations, unless resulting from our gross negligence or willful misconduct. Similarly, we generally agree to indemnify our customers for liabilities arising from personal injury to or death of any of our employees, unless resulting from gross negligence or willful misconduct of the customer. In addition, our customers generally agree to indemnify us for loss or destruction of customer-owned property or equipment and in turn, we agree to indemnify our customers for loss or destruction of property or equipment we own. Losses due to catastrophic events, such as blowouts, are generally the responsibility of the customer. However, despite this general allocation of risk, we might not succeed in enforcing such contractual allocation, might incur an unforeseen liability falling outside the scope of such allocation or may be required to enter into an MSA with terms that vary from the above allocations of risk. As a result, we may incur substantial losses which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation.. Loss of our information and computer systems could adversely affect our business.. We are heavily dependent on our information systems and computer based programs, including our well operations information and accounting data. If any of such programs or systems were to fail or create erroneous information in our hardware or software network infrastructure, whether due to cyberattack or otherwise, possible consequences include our loss of communication links and inability to automatically process commercial transactions or engage in similar automated or computerized business activities. Any such consequence could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are subject to cyber security risks. A cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss.. The energy services industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain processing activities. For example, we depend on digital technologies to perform many of our services and process and record financial and operating data. At the same time, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks or unintentional events, have increased. The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of cyber security threats. Our technologies, systems and networks, and those of our vendors, suppliers and other business partners, may become the target of cyberattacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of our business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period. Our systems and insurance coverage for protecting against cyber security risks may not be sufficient. As cyber incidents continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents. Our insurance coverage for cyberattacks may not be sufficient to cover all the losses we may experience as a result of such cyberattacks.. 40. Risks Inherent to Our Common Stock. Our two largest stockholders control a significant percentage of our common stock, and their interests may conflict with those of our other stockholders.. Wexford, through its affiliate MEH Sub LLC, and Gulfport beneficially own approximately 56.1% and 25.1%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Wexford alone controls, and Gulfport can exercise significant influence, over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, changes to our organizational documents and significant corporate transactions. Further, two individuals who serve as our directors are affiliates of Wexford or Gulfport. This concentration of ownership and relationships with Wexford and Gulfport make it unlikely that any other holder or group of holders of our common stock will be able to affect the way we are managed or the direction of our business. In addition, we have engaged, and expect to continue to engage, in related party transactions involving Wexford and Gulfport, and certain companies they control. The interests of Wexford and Gulfport with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us, such as services provided, future acquisitions, financings and other corporate opportunities, and attempts to acquire us, may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. This concentrated ownership will make it impossible for another company to acquire us and for you to receive any related takeover premium for your shares unless these stockholders approve the acquisition.. A significant reduction by Wexford or Gulfport of their ownership interests in us could adversely affect us.. We believe that Wexford's and Gulfport's substantial ownership interests in us provides them with an economic incentive to assist us to be successful. Neither Wexford nor Gulfport is subject to any obligation to maintain its ownership interest in us and may elect at any time to sell all or a substantial portion of or otherwise reduce its ownership interest in us. If Wexford or Gulfport sells all or a substantial portion of its ownership interest in us, it may have less incentive to assist in our success and its affiliates that serve as members of our board of directors may resign. Such actions could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategies which could adversely affect our cash flows or results of operations.. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company, which may significantly affect our financial condition.. We completed our IPO in October 2016. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. These include costs associated with our public company reporting requirements and corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, as well as rules implemented by the SEC, The Nasdaq Global Select Market and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. These rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations may also make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We estimate that we incur approximately $2.5 million of incremental costs per year associated with being a publicly traded company; however, it is possible that our incremental costs of being a publicly traded company will be higher than we currently estimate. After we are no longer an \"emerging growth company,\" we expect to incur significant additional expenses and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with those requirements applicable to companies that are not \"emerging growth companies,\" including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. See \" - Risks Related to Our Common Stock - We will be subject to certain requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to timely comply with Section 404 or if the costs related to compliance are significant, our profitability, stock price, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.\". For so long as we are an \"emerging growth company\" we will not be required to comply with certain disclosure requirements that are applicable to other public companies and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act and, for as long as we remain an \"emerging growth company,\" intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an \"emerging growth company\" for up to five years following the completion of our IPO, although, if we have more than $1.07 billion in annual revenue, if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of June 30 of. 41. any year, or we issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period before the end of that five-year period, we would cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" as of the following December 31st. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we rely on certain exemptions available to \"emerging growth companies.\" If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our common stock price may be more volatile.. We are subject to certain requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are unable to timely comply with Section 404 or if the costs related to compliance are significant, our profitability, stock price, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. As of December 31, 2017, we are required to comply with certain provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires that we document and test our internal control over financial reporting and issue management's assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. Because we are an \"emerging growth company,\" however, our independent registered public accounting firm is not currently required to opine on those internal controls. During the course of our integration of our internal control over financial reporting, we may identify areas requiring improvement, and we may have to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. We believe that the out-of-pocket costs, the diversion of management's attention from running the day-to-day operations and operational changes caused by the need to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could be significant. If the time and costs associated with such compliance exceed our current expectations, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or if we or our auditors identify and report material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of the filing of our annual and quarterly reports may be materially adversely affected and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, a material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could result in an increased chance of fraud and the loss of customers, reduce our ability to obtain financing and require additional expenditures to comply with these requirements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Since we are a \"controlled company\" for purposes of The Nasdaq Global Select Market's corporate governance requirements, our stockholders will not have, and may never have, the protections that these corporate governance requirements are intended to provide.. Since we are a \"controlled company\" for purposes of The Nasdaq Global Select Market's corporate governance requirements, we are not required to comply with the provisions requiring that a majority of our directors be independent, the compensation of our executives be determined by independent directors or nominees for election to our board of directors be selected by independent directors. If we choose to take advantage of any or all of these exemptions, our stockholders may not have the protections that these rules are intended to provide.. The corporate opportunity provisions in our certificate of incorporation could enable Wexford, Gulfport or other affiliates of ours to benefit from corporate opportunities that might otherwise be available to us.. Subject to the limitations of applicable law, our certificate of incorporation, among other things:. • permits us to enter into transactions with entities in which one or more of our officers or directors are financially or otherwise interested;. • permits any of our stockholders, officers or directors to conduct business that competes with us and to make investments in any kind of property in which we may make investments; and. • provides that if any director or officer of one of our affiliates who is also one of our officers or directors becomes aware of a potential business opportunity, transaction or other matter (other than one expressly offered to that director or officer in writing solely in his or her capacity as our director or officer), that director or officer will have no duty to communicate or offer that opportunity to us, and will be permitted to communicate or offer that opportunity to such affiliates and that director or officer will not be deemed to have (i) acted in a manner inconsistent with his or her fiduciary or other duties to us regarding the opportunity or (ii) acted in bad faith or in a manner inconsistent with our best interests.. These provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity that would otherwise be available to us may be used for the benefit of one of our affiliates.. 42. We have engaged in transactions with our affiliates and expect to do so in the future. The terms of such transactions and the resolution of any conflicts that may arise may not always be in our or our common stockholders' best interests.. We have engaged in transactions and expect to continue to engage in transactions with affiliated companies. As described elsewhere in this report, including in the notes to our consolidated financial statements, these transactions include, among others, agreements to provide our services and frac sand products to our affiliates and agreements pursuant to which our affiliates provide or will provide us with certain services, including administrative and advisory services and office space. Each of these entities is either controlled by or affiliated with Wexford or Gulfport, as the case may be, and the resolution of any conflicts that may arise in connection with such related party transactions, including pricing, duration or other terms of service, may not always be in our or our stockholders' best interests because Wexford and/or Gulfport may have the ability to influence the outcome of these conflicts. For a discussion of potential conflicts, see \" - Risks Inherent to Our Common Stock - Our two largest stockholders control a significant percentage of our common stock, and their interests may conflict with those of our other stockholders.\". Prior to the IPO, there was no public market for our common stock and if the price of our common stock fluctuates significantly, your investment could lose value.. Prior to the completion of the IPO in October 2016, there was no public market for our common stock. Although our common stock is listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market, an active public market for our common stock may not be maintained. If an active public market for our common stock is not maintained, the trading price and liquidity of our common stock will be materially and adversely affected. If there is a thin trading market or \"float\" for our common stock, the market price for our common stock may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. Without a large float, our common stock is less liquid than the securities of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. In addition, in the absence of an active public trading market, investors may be unable to liquidate their investment in us. In addition, the stock market is subject to significant price and volume fluctuations, and the price of our common stock could fluctuate widely in response to several factors, including:. • our quarterly or annual operating results;. • changes in our earnings estimates;. • investment recommendations by securities analysts following our business or our industries;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • changes in the business, earnings estimates or market perceptions of our competitors;. • our failure to achieve operating results consistent with securities analysts' projections;. • changes in industry, general market or economic conditions; and. • announcements of legislative or regulatory change.. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations in recent years that have significantly affected the quoted prices of the securities of many companies, including companies in our industries. The changes often appear to occur without regard to specific operating performance. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company and these fluctuations could materially reduce the price for our common stock.. Wexford and Gulfport beneficially own a substantial amount of our common stock and may sell such common stock in the public or private markets. Sales of these shares of common stock or sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by other stockholders, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock.. As of December 31, 2017, Wexford and Gulfport beneficially owned 56.1% and 25.1% shares of our common stock, respectively. Sales of these shares of common stock or sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by other stockholders, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause the price of our common stock to decline. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common or preferred stock.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, the price of our stock could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading. 43. volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover our company downgrades our stock or if our operating results do not meet their expectations, our stock price could decline.. We may issue preferred stock whose terms could adversely affect the voting power or value of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could adversely impact the voting power or value of our common stock. For example, we might grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we might assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of the common stock.. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law make it more difficult to effect a change in control of the company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. The existence of some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware corporate law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even if that change would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make acquiring control of our company difficult, including:. • provisions regulating the ability of our stockholders to nominate directors for election or to bring matters for action at annual meetings of our stockholders;. • limitations on the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting and act by written consent;. • the ability of our board of directors to adopt, amend or repeal bylaws, and the requirement that the affirmative vote of holders representing at least 66 2/3% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of capital stock be obtained for stockholders to amend our bylaws;. • the requirement that the affirmative vote of holders representing at least 66 2/3% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of capital stock be obtained to remove directors;. • the requirement that the affirmative vote of holders representing at least 66 2/3% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of capital stock be obtained to amend our certificate of incorporation; and. • the authorization given to our board of directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock without the approval of our stockholders.. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, which may limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation designates courts in the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees.. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, subject to limited exceptions, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for:. • Any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf;. • Any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders;. • Any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law; or. • Any other action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine.. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that if any action specified above (each is referred to herein as a covered proceeding), is filed in a court other than the specified Delaware courts without the approval of our board of directors (each is referred to herein as a foreign action), the claiming party will be deemed to have consented to (i) the personal jurisdiction of the specified Delaware courts in connection with any action brought in any such courts to enforce the exclusive forum provision described above and (ii) having service of process made upon such claiming party in any such enforcement action by service upon such claiming party's counsel in the foreign action as agent for such claiming party. These provisions may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors,. 44. officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our certificate of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the covered proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and therefore only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to our stockholders.. We currently anticipate that we will retain all future earnings, if any, to finance the growth and development of our business. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our financial condition, results of operations, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. In addition, the terms of our revolving credit facility prohibit us from paying dividends and making other distributions. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may not occur, will provide a return to our stockholders."
