[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks, together with the cautionary statement under the caption \"Forward-Looking Statements\" and the other information included in this report. The risks described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks that are currently unknown to the Company or that the Company currently considers to be immaterial may also impair its business or adversely affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operation could be adversely affected.. Significant deterioration in economic conditions, especially in the United States and Europe, has had and may again have negative effects on the Company's results of operations and cash flows. Significant deterioration in economic conditions, especially in the United States and Europe, has had and may again have negative effects on the Company's results of operations and cash flows. Economic conditions affect the Company's sales volumes, pricing levels and overall profitability. Demand for many of the Company's products depends on end-use markets. Challenging economic conditions may reduce demand for our products and may also impair the ability of customers to pay for products they have purchased. As a result, the Company's reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs for accounts receivable may increase.. A significant deterioration in economic conditions has caused and may again cause deterioration in the credit quality of our customers and the estimated residual value of our equipment. This could further negatively impact the ability of our customers to obtain the resources they need to make purchases of our equipment. Reduced credit availability will diminish our customers' ability to invest in their businesses, refinance maturing debt obligations, and meet ongoing working capital needs. If customers do not have sufficient access to credit, demand for the Company's products will likely decline. Reduced access to credit and the capital markets will also negatively affect the Company's ability to invest in strategic growth initiatives such as acquisitions.. 9. Certain of the Company's products are significantly affected by the level of capital expenditures in the oil and gas industry and lower capital expenditures have affected and may continue to affect the results of the Company's operations.. The demand for our product in part depends on the condition of the oil and gas industry and, in particular, on the level of capital expenditures of companies engaged in the exploration, development, and production of oil and natural gas. Capital expenditures by these companies are influenced by the following factors:. •  the oil and gas industry's ability to economically justify placing discoveries of oil and gas reserves in production;. •  current and projected oil and gas prices;. •  the oil and gas industry's need to clear all structures from the lease once the oil and gas reserves have been depleted;. •  weather events, such as major tropical storms;. •  the abilities of oil and gas companies to generate, access and deploy capital;. •  exploration, production and transportation costs;. •  the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves;. •  the sale and expiration dates of oil and gas leases and concessions;. •  local and international political and economic conditions;. •  the ability or willingness of host country government entities to fund their budgetary commitments; and. •  technological advances.. Historically, prices of oil and natural gas and exploration, development and production have fluctuated substantially. A sustained period of substantially reduced capital expenditures by oil and gas companies will result in decreased demand for certain equipment produced by the Company, lower margins, and possibly net losses.  Additionally, oil and gas companies may sell excess equipment into the general construction market which could further depress demand for certain of products.. The Company's level of indebtedness reduces financial flexibility and could impede our ability to operate.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company's total debt was $95.3 million, which includes: revolving term credit facilities, notes payable, convertible debt and capital lease obligations.. Our level of debt affects our operations in several important ways, including the following:. •  a significant portion of our cash flow from operations is likely to be dedicated to the payment of the principal and interest on our indebtedness;. •  our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited;. •  we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all;. •  our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; and. •  we may be unable to obtain additional loans as a result of covenants and agreements with existing debt holders.. The Company must comply with restrictive covenants in its outstanding debt agreements.. The Company's existing debt agreements contain a number of significant covenants which may limit its ability to, among other things, borrow additional money, make capital expenditures, pay dividends, dispose of assets and acquire new businesses. These covenants also require the Company to meet certain financial and non-financial tests.  The Company received waivers related to non-compliance with certain covenants and defaults under its U.S. credit facilities and its convertible notes.  The Company also restructured certain debt arrangements which restructuring cured the defaults caused by the failed covenant.  An additional default or other event of non-compliance, if not waived or otherwise permitted by the Company's lenders, could result in acceleration of the Company's debt and possibly bankruptcy.. The Company may require additional funding, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all.. Our future capital requirements will depend on the amount of cash generated or required by our current operations, as well as additional funds which may be needed to finance future acquisitions. Future cash needs are subject to substantial uncertainty.. 10. We cannot guarantee that adequate funds will be available when needed, and if we do not receive sufficient capital, we may be required to alter or reduce the scope of our operations or to forego making future acquisitions. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, existing stockholders may be diluted.. The Company's business is affected by the cyclical nature of its markets.. A substantial portion of our revenues are attributed to limited number of customers which may decrease or cease purchasing any time, since the Company's products depends upon the general economic conditions of the markets in which the Company competes. The Company's sales depend in part upon its customers' replacement or repair cycles. Adverse economic conditions, including a decrease in commodity prices, may cause customers to forego or postpone new purchases in favor of repairing existing machinery. Downward economic cycles may result in reductions in sales of the Company's products, which may reduce the Company's profits. The Company has taken a number of steps to reduce its fixed costs and diversify its operations to decrease the negative impact of these cycles. There can be no assurance, however, that these steps will prevent the negative impact of poor economic conditions. The Company's business is sensitive to increases in interest rates.. The Company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing issuances of variable rate debt. Primary exposure includes movements in the U.S. prime rate, LIBOR and Italian short-term borrowing rates.. If interest rates rise, it becomes more costly for the Company's customers to borrow money to pay for the equipment they buy from the Company. Should the U. S. Federal Reserve Board decide to increase rates, prospects for business investment and manufacturing could deteriorate sufficiently and impact sales opportunities.. The Company's business is sensitive to government spending.. Many of the Company's customers depend substantially on government spending, including highway construction and maintenance and other infrastructure projects by U.S. federal and state governments and governments in other nations. Any decrease or delay in government funding of highway construction and maintenance and other infrastructure projects could cause the Company's revenues and profits to decrease.. The Company's revenues are attributed to limited number of customers which may decrease or cease purchasing any time.. The Company's revenues are attributed to a limited number of customers. We generally do not have long-term supply agreements with our customers. Even if a multi-year contract exists, the customer is not required to commit to minimum purchases and can cease purchasing at any time. If we were to lose either a significant customer or several smaller customers our operating results and cash flows would be adversely impacted.. The Company is dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages.. The Company obtains materials and manufactured components from third-party suppliers. Any delay in the ability of the Company's suppliers to provide the Company with necessary materials and components may affect the Company's capabilities at a number of our manufacturing locations, or may require the Company to seek alternative supply sources. Delays in obtaining supplies may result from a number of factors affecting the Company's suppliers including capacity constraints, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. Any delay in receiving supplies could impair the Company's ability to deliver products to customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, the Company purchases material and services from suppliers on extended terms based on the Company's overall credit rating. Negative changes in the Company's credit rating may impact suppliers' willingness to extend terms and increase the cash requirements of the business.. Price increases in materials could affect our profitability.. We use large amounts of steel and other items in the manufacture of our products. In the past, market prices of some of our key raw materials increased significantly. If we experience future significant increases in material costs, including steel, we may not be able to reduce product cost in other areas or pass future raw material price increases on to our customers and our margins could be adversely affected.. 11. We provide credit guarantees or residual value guarantees for some of our customers.. The Company's customers, from time to time, may fund acquisitions of our products through third-party finance companies. In certain instances, the Company has in the past provided credit guarantees or residual value guarantees. With these guarantees, we must assess the probability of losses or non-performance in ways similar to the evaluation of accounts receivable. We establish reserves based upon our analysis of the current quality and financial position of our customers, past payment experience and collateral values. In circumstances where we believe it is probable that a specific customer will have difficulty meeting its financial obligations, a specific reserve is recorded to recognize a liability for a guarantee we expect to pay, taking into account any amounts that we would anticipate realizing if we are forced to repossess the equipment that supports the customer's financial obligations to us. During periods of economic weakness, collateral underlying our guarantees of indebtedness of customers or receivables can decline sharply, thereby increasing our exposure to losses. In the future, we may incur losses in excess of our recorded reserves if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate further or the full amount of any anticipated proceeds from the sale of the collateral supporting our customers' financial obligations is not realized. Historically, no losses related to guarantees have been realized; however, there can be no assurance that our historical experience with respect to guarantees will be indicative of future results.. The Company depends on its information technology systems. If its information technology systems do not perform in a satisfactory manner or if the security of them is breached, it could be disruptive and or adversely affect the operations and results of operations of the Company.. The Company depends on its information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information (including sensitive data such as confidential business information and personally identifiable data relating to employees, customers and other business partners), and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities. If our information technology systems do not perform in a satisfactory manner, it could be disruptive and or adversely affect the operations and results of operations of the Company, including the ability of the Company to report accurate and timely financial results.. Furthermore, our information technology systems may be damaged, disrupted or shut down due to attacks by computer hackers, computer viruses, employee error or malfeasance, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication or utility failures, catastrophes or other unforeseen events, and in any such circumstances our system redundancy and other disaster recovery planning may be ineffective or inadequate. A failure of or breach in information technology security could expose us and our customers, distributors and suppliers to risks of misuse of information or systems, the compromise of confidential information, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operations disruptions. In addition, such breaches in security could result in litigation, regulatory action and potential liability, as well as the costs and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. The Company may face limitations on its ability to integrate acquired businesses.. The successful integration of new businesses depends on the Company's ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. While the Company believes it has successfully integrated these acquisitions to date, the Company cannot ensure that these acquired companies will operate profitably or that the intended beneficial effect from these acquisitions will be realized.. If the Company is unable to manage anticipated growth effectively, the business could be harmed.. If the Company fails to manage growth, the Company's financial results and business prospects may be harmed. To manage the Company's growth and to execute its business plan efficiently, the Company will need to institute operational, financial and management controls, as well as reporting systems and procedures. The Company also must effectively expand, train and manage its employee base. The Company cannot assure you that it will be successful in any of these endeavors.. The Company relies on key management.. The Company relies on the management and leadership skills of David Langevin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. When Mr. Langevin joined the Company, he signed a three year employment agreement with the Company which expired on December 31, 2008. Mr. Langevin's employment agreement has been extended and now expires on December 31, 2019. Under the employment agreement, Mr. Langevin's employment term automatically extends for successive periods of three years unless either the Company or Mr. Langevin gives written notice to the other party of non-renewal at least 90 days prior to the end of the then current employment term.  The loss of his services could have a significant and negative impact on the Company's business. In addition, the Company relies on the management and leadership skills of other senior executives. The Company could be harmed by the loss of key personnel in the future.. 12. The Company's success depends upon the continued protection of its trademarks and the Company may be forced to incur substantial costs to maintain, defend, protect and enforce its intellectual property rights.. The Company's registered and common law trademarks, as well as certain of the Company's licensed trademarks, have significant value and are instrumental to the Company's ability to market its products. The Company's marks \"Manitex\" \"Badger\", \"Sabre\", \"Valla\",  \"PM\" and \"O&S\" are important to the Company's business as the majority of the Company's products are sold under those names. The Company has not registered all of its trademarks in the United States nor in the foreign countries where it does business. Third parties could assert claims against such intellectual property that the Company could be unable to successfully resolve. If the Company has to change the names of any of its products, it may experience a loss of goodwill associated with its brand names, customer confusion and a loss of sales.. In addition, international protection of the Company's intellectual property may not be available in some foreign countries to the same extent permitted by the laws of the United States. The Company could also incur substantial costs to defend legal actions relating to use of its intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition.. The Company may be required to record goodwill impairment charges on all or a significant amount of the goodwill on its Consolidated Balance Sheets.. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had approximately $43.6 million of goodwill. The Company tests goodwill for impairment at least annually. If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill could materially negatively affect the Company's results of operations.. The Company may be unable to effectively respond to technological change, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and business.. The markets served by the Company are not historically characterized by rapidly changing technology. Nevertheless, the Company's future success will depend in part upon the Company's ability to enhance its current products and to develop and introduce new products. If the Company fails to anticipate or respond adequately to competitors' product improvements and new production introductions, future results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected.. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry and the Company is particularly subject to the risks of such competition.. The Company competes in a highly competitive industry and the competition which the Company encounters has an effect on its product prices, market share, revenues and profitability. Because certain competitors have substantially greater financial, production, research and development resources and substantially greater name recognition than the Company, the Company is particularly subject to the risks inherent in competing with them and may be put at a competitive disadvantage. To compete successfully, the Company's products must excel in terms of quality, price, product line, ease of use, safety and comfort, and the Company must also provide excellent customer service. The greater financial resources of the Company's competitors may put it at a competitive disadvantage. If competition in the Company's industry intensifies or if the Company's current competitors enhance their products or lower their prices for competing products, the Company may lose sales or be required to lower its prices. This may reduce revenue from the Company's products and services, lower its gross margins or cause the Company to lose market share. The Company may not be able to differentiate our products from those of competitors, successfully develop or introduce less costly products, offer better performance than competitors or offer purchasers of our products payment and other commercial terms as favorable as those offered by competitors.. The Company faces product liability claims and other liabilities due to the nature of its business.. In the Company's lines of business numerous suits have been filed alleging damages for accidents that have occurred during the use or operation of the Company's products. The Company is self-insured, up to certain limits, for these product liability exposures, as well as for certain exposures related to general, workers' compensation and automobile liability. Insurance coverage is obtained for catastrophic losses as well as those risks required to be insured by law or contract. Any material liabilities not covered by insurance could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial condition.. 13. Our increasingly international operations expose us to additional risks and challenges associated with conducting business internationally.. The international expansion of our business may expose us to risks inherent in conducting foreign operations. These risks include:. •  challenges associated with managing geographically diverse operations, which require an effective organizational structure and appropriate business processes, procedures and controls;. •  the increased cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions, including compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations;. •  currency exchange and interest rate fluctuations and the resulting effect on our revenue and expenses, and the cost and risk of entering into hedging transactions, if we continue to do so in the future;. •  potentially adverse tax consequences;. •  complexities and difficulties in obtaining protection and enforcing our intellectual property;. •  compliance with additional regulations and government authorities in a highly regulated business; and. •  general economic and political conditions internationally.. The risks that the Company faces in its international operations may continue to intensify if the Company further develops and expands its international operations.. The Company is subject to currency fluctuations.. Changes in exchange rates between various currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our earnings. We regularly evaluate opportunities for, and at times engage in, hedging activities to mitigate the impact that changes in exchange rates for various currencies may have on our financial results. Our hedging activities are designed to reduce and delay, but not to eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. Factors that could affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include volatility of currency markets, and the availability of effective hedging instruments. Since the hedging activities are designed to reduce volatility, they may have the effect of reducing both the negative and positive impacts that changes in exchange rates may have.  Our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the U.S. dollar versus the native currencies of our subsidiaries (primarily the  Euro) as well as the native currencies of foreign subsidiaries and other currencies in which they conduct business.   The degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. There can be no assurance that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, no hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in currency exchange rates. We currently have exposure to changes in exchange rates for a number of currencies including the Euro, the Chilean peso and the Argentinean peso.. Risks Relating to our Common Stock. The Company's principal shareholders, executive officers and directors hold a significant percentage of the Company's common stock, and these shareholders may take actions that may be adverse to your interests.. The Company's principal shareholders, executive officers and directors beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 19% of the Company's common stock as of March 20, 2018. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, consolidations, sales and purchases of assets. They also could dictate the management of the Company's business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination, which could cause the market price of our common stock to fall or prevent you from receiving a premium in such a transaction.. The cost of compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may negatively impact the Company's income.. The Company is subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC, including those rules and regulations mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires all reporting companies to include in their annual report a statement of management's responsibilities for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, together with an assessment of the effectiveness of those internal controls. Section 404 further requires that the reporting company's independent auditors attest to, and report on, this management assessment. The Company expects its expenses related to its internal and external auditors to be significant. If we fail to maintain a system of adequate controls, it could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price.. 14. The price of our common stock is highly volatile.. The trading price of the Company's common stock is highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control, including:. •  the degree to which the Company successfully implements its business strategy;. •  actual or anticipated variations in quarterly or annual operating results;. •  changes in recommendations by the investment community or in their estimates of the Company's revenues or operating results;. •  failure to meet expectations of industry analysts;. •  speculation in the press or investment community;. •  strategic actions by the Company's competitors;. •  announcements of technological innovations or new products by the Company or competitors;. •  changes in business conditions affecting the Company and its customers; and. •  potential to be delisted. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, class action litigation has often been brought against companies. If a securities class action suit is filed against us, whether or not meritorious, we would incur substantial legal fees and our management's attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business in order to respond to the litigation.. Provisions of the Michigan Business Corporation Act and the Company's Articles of Incorporation, Amended and Restated Bylaws, and Rights Agreement may discourage or prevent a takeover of the Company.. Provisions of the Company's Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws, Michigan law, and the Rights Agreement, dated October 17, 2008, between the Company and Broadridge Corporate Issuer Solution, Inc., as rights agent, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to you. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of the Company's shares. Because of these provisions, you might not be able to receive a premium on your investment. These provisions:. •  authorize the Company's Board of Directors, with approval by a majority of its independent Directors but without requiring shareholder consent, to issue shares of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by the Company's Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and prevent a takeover attempt;. •  limit our shareholders' ability to call a special meeting of the Company's shareholders;. •  limit the Company's shareholders' ability to amend, alter or repeal the Company bylaws;. •  may result in the issuance of preferred stock, which would significantly dilute the stock ownership percentage of certain shareholders and make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of the Company's outstanding voting stock; and. •  restrict business combinations with certain shareholders.. The provisions described above could prevent, delay or defer a change in control of the Company or its management.. 15. The restatement of our previously issued financial statements has been time-consuming and expensive and could expose us to additional risks that could have a negative effect on our Company.. We have restated our previously issued audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016 as well as the unaudited quarterly financial information included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, the unaudited financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2017, and the unaudited financial statements for the six-month period ended June 30, 2017 included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2017.  In addition, our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017 and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 were not filed in a timely manner.  The restatement process has been time consuming and expensive and, along with the failure to make certain filings with the SEC in a timely manner, could expose us to additional risks that could have a negative effect on our Company.  In particular, we have incurred substantial unanticipated expenses and costs, including audit, legal and other professional fees, in connection with the restatement of our previously issued financial statements and the ongoing remediation of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Certain remediation actions have been recommended and we are in the process of implementing them (see Item 9A \"Controls and Procedures\" of this Form 10-K for a description of these remediation measures). To the extent these steps are not successful, we could be forced to incur additional time and expense. Our management's attention has also been diverted from the operation of our business in connection with the restatement and these ongoing remediation efforts. In addition, as a result of these restatements and failure to timely make certain filings with the SEC, we could be subject to governmental, regulatory or other actions. Any such proceedings could, regardless of the outcome, consume a significant amount of management's time and attention and could result in additional legal, accounting and other costs and liabilities."
