[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating us and our common stock. Some of these risks relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate to the ownership of our common stock.. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline.. Risks Relating to our Business. A substantial or extended decline in refining and marketing margins would reduce our operating results and cash flows and could materially and adversely impact our future rate of growth, the carrying value of our assets and our ability to execute share repurchases and continue the payment of our base dividend.. Our operating results, cash flows, future rate of growth, the carrying value of our assets and our ability to execute share repurchases and continue the payment of our base dividend are highly dependent on the margins we realize on our refined products. The measure of the difference between market prices for refined products and crude oil, or crack spread, is commonly used by the industry as a proxy for refining and marketing margins. Historically, refining and marketing margins have been volatile, and we believe they will continue to be volatile. Our margins from the sale of gasoline and other refined products are influenced by a number of conditions, including the price of crude oil. We do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of the crude oil we refine. The price of crude oil and the price at which we can sell our refined products may fluctuate independently due to a variety of regional and global market conditions. Any overall change in crack spreads will impact our refining and marketing margins. Many of the factors influencing a change in crack spreads and refining and marketing margins are beyond our control. These factors include:. • worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil and refined products;. • the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks to be manufactured into refined products;. • the prices realized for refined products;. • utilization rates of refineries;. • natural gas and electricity supply costs incurred by refineries;. • the ability of the members of OPEC to agree to and maintain production controls;. • political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions;. • local weather conditions;. • seasonality of demand in our marketing area due to increased highway traffic in the spring and summer months;. • natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornadoes;. • the price and availability of alternative and competing forms of energy;. • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and. • local, regional, national and worldwide economic conditions.. Some of these factors can vary by region and may change quickly, adding to market volatility, while others may have longer-term effects. The longer-term effects of these and other factors on refining and marketing margins are uncertain. We purchase our crude oil and other refinery feedstocks weeks before we refine them and sell the refined products. Price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. We also purchase refined products manufactured by others for resale to our customers. Price changes during the periods between purchasing and reselling those refined products also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Lower refining and marketing margins may reduce the amount of refined products we produce, which may reduce our revenues, income from operations and cash flows. Significant reductions in refining and marketing margins could require us to reduce our capital expenditures, impair the carrying value of our assets (such as property, plant and equipment, inventory or goodwill), decrease or eliminate our share repurchase activity and our base dividend.. 23. Table of Contents. Our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. Failure to manage risks associated with business interruptions could adversely impact our operations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our operations are subject to business interruptions due to scheduled refinery turnarounds, unplanned maintenance or unplanned events such as explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents, power outages, severe weather, labor disputes, or other natural or man-made disasters, such as acts of terrorism. For example, pipelines provide a nearly-exclusive form of transportation of crude oil to, or refined products from, some of our refineries. In such instances, a prolonged interruption in service of such a pipeline could materially and adversely affect the operations, profitability and cash flows of the impacted refinery.. Explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations could result in serious personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property and equipment, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to us. Damages resulting from an incident involving any of our assets or operations may result in our being named as a defendant in one or more lawsuits asserting potentially substantial claims or in our being assessed potentially substantial fines by governmental authorities.. We do not insure against all potential losses, and, therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by unexpected liabilities and increased costs.. We maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe to be prudent against many, but not all, potential liabilities arising from operating hazards. Uninsured liabilities arising from operating hazards, including but not limited to, explosions, fires, refinery or pipeline releases or other incidents involving our assets or operations, could reduce the funds available to us for capital and investment spending and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Historically, we also have maintained insurance coverage for physical damage and resulting business interruption to our major facilities, with significant self-insured retentions. In the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance of the types and amounts we desire at reasonable rates.. We rely on the performance of our information technology systems, the failure of which due to cyber-security threats or other risks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are heavily dependent on our information technology systems, network infrastructure and maintain cloud applications for the effective operation of our business. We rely on such systems to process, transmit and store electronic information, including financial records and personally identifiable information such as employee, customer, investor and payroll data, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including our supply chain, pipeline operations, gathering and processing operations, retail sales, credit card payments and authorizations at our Speedway and Marathon branded retail outlets, financial transactions, banking and numerous other processes and transactions. These information systems involve data network and telecommunications, Internet access and website functionality, and various computer hardware equipment and software applications, including those that are critical to the safe operation of our business. Our systems and infrastructure are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, software viruses or other malware, power failures, cyber-attacks and other events. We also face various other cyber-security threats from criminal hackers, state-sponsored intrusion, industrial espionage and employee malfeasance, including threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable. To protect against such attempts of unauthorized access or attack, we have implemented infrastructure protection technologies and disaster recovery plans and continuously provide employee awareness training around phishing, malware and other cyber-attacks to help ensure we are protected against cyber risks and security breaches. While we have invested significant amounts in the protection of our technology systems and maintain what we believe are adequate security controls over personally identifiable customer, investor and employee data, there can be no guarantee such plans, to the extent they are in place, will be effective. Certain vendors have access to sensitive information, including personally identifiable customer, investor and employee data and a breakdown of their technology systems or infrastructure as a result of a cyber-attack or otherwise could result in unauthorized disclosure of such information. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or personally identifiable information, including by cyber-attacks or other security breach, could cause loss of data, give rise to remediation or other expenses, expose us to liability under federal and state laws,  reduce our customers' willingness to do business with us, disrupt the services we provide to customers and subject us to litigation and investigations, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our applicable insurance may not compensate us adequately for losses that may occur. State and federal cyber-security legislation could also impose new requirements, which could increase our cost of doing business.. The retail market is diverse and highly competitive, and very aggressive competition could adversely impact our business.. We face strong competition in the market for the sale of retail gasoline, diesel fuel and merchandise. Our competitors include outlets owned or operated by fully integrated major oil companies or their dealers or jobbers, and other well-recognized national or regional retail outlets, often selling gasoline or merchandise at very competitive prices. Several non-traditional. 24. Table of Contents. retailers such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants are in the retail business. These non-traditional gasoline retailers have obtained a significant share of the transportation fuels market and we expect their market share to grow. Because of their diversity, integration of operations, experienced management and greater financial resources, these companies may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions or levels of low or no profitability in the retail segment of the market. In addition, these retailers may use promotional pricing or discounts, both at the pump and in the store, to encourage in-store merchandise sales. These activities by our competitors could pressure us to offer similar discounts, adversely affecting our profit margins. Additionally, the loss of market share by our convenience stores to these and other retailers relating to either gasoline or merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The development, availability and marketing of alternative and competing fuels in the retail market could adversely impact our business. We compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel needs of our consumers. Increased competition from these alternatives as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances and consumer demand could have an impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability.. We are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products.. We utilize the services of third parties to transport crude oil and refined products to and from our refineries. In addition to our own operational risks discussed above, we could experience interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of weather events, accidents, governmental regulations or third-party actions. A prolonged disruption of the ability of the pipelines, railways or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products to or from one or more of our refineries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We may incur losses to our business as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions.. We currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to enter into these types of transactions in the future. A failure of a futures commission merchant or counterparty to perform would affect these transactions. To the extent the instruments we utilize to manage these exposures are not effective, we may incur losses related to the ineffective portion of the derivative transaction or costs related to moving the derivative positions to another futures commission merchant or counterparty once a failure has occurred.. We have significant debt obligations; therefore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed by a deterioration of our credit profile, a decrease in debt capacity or unsecured commercial credit available to us, or by factors adversely affecting credit markets generally.. At December 31, 2017, our total debt obligations for borrowed money and capital lease obligations were $13.4 billion, including $7.4 billion of obligations of MPLX. We may incur substantial additional debt obligations in the future.. Our indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have material adverse consequences, including:. • increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions;. • limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry;. • limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders;. • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and. • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends and other purposes.. A decrease in our debt or commercial credit capacity, including unsecured credit extended by third-party suppliers, or a deterioration in our credit profile could increase our costs of borrowing money and/or limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We have a trade receivables securitization facility that provides liquidity of up to $750 million depending on the amount of eligible domestic trade accounts receivables. In periods of lower prices, we may not have sufficient eligible accounts receivables to support full availability of this facility.. 25. Table of Contents. Historic or current operations could subject us to significant legal liability or restrict our ability to operate.. We currently are defending litigation and anticipate we will be required to defend new litigation in the future. Our operations, including those of MPLX, and those of our predecessors could expose us to litigation and civil claims by private plaintiffs for alleged damages related to contamination of the environment or personal injuries caused by releases of hazardous substances from our facilities, products liability, consumer credit or privacy laws, product pricing or antitrust laws or any other laws or regulations that apply to our operations. While an adverse outcome in most litigation matters would not be expected to be material to us, in class-action litigation, large classes of plaintiffs may allege damages relating to extended periods of time or other alleged facts and circumstances that could increase the amount of potential damages. Attorneys general and other government officials may pursue litigation in which they seek to recover civil damages from companies on behalf of a state or its citizens for a variety of claims, including violation of consumer protection and product pricing laws or natural resources damages. We are defending litigation of that type and anticipate that we will be required to defend new litigation of that type in the future. If we are not able to successfully defend such litigation, it may result in liability to our company that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We do not have insurance covering all of these potential liabilities. In addition to substantial liability, plaintiffs in litigation may also seek injunctive relief which, if imposed, could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. A portion of our workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Approximately 37 percent of our refining employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Certain hourly employees at our Canton, Catlettsburg, Galveston Bay and Texas City refineries are represented by the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers Union under labor agreements that are due to expire in 2019. The International Brotherhood of Teamsters represents certain hourly employees at our Detroit refinery under a labor agreement that is also scheduled to expire in 2019. In addition, they represent certain hourly employees at Speedway under agreements that cover certain retail locations in New York and New Jersey that expire on March 14, 2019 and June 30, 2019, respectively. These contracts may be renewed at an increased cost to us. In addition, we have experienced, or may experience, work stoppages as a result of labor disagreements. Any prolonged work stoppages disrupting operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. One of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, MPLX, which may involve a greater exposure to certain legal liabilities than existed under our historic business operations.. One of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of MPLX, a publicly traded master limited partnership. Our control of the general partner of MPLX may increase the possibility of claims of breach of fiduciary duties including claims of conflicts of interest related to MPLX. Any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If foreign investment in us or MPLX exceeds certain levels, MPLX could be prohibited from operating inland river vessels, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The Shipping Act of 1916 and Merchant Marine Act of 1920, which we refer to collectively as the Maritime Laws, generally require that vessels engaged in U.S. coastwise trade be owned by U.S. citizens. Among other requirements to establish citizenship, entities that own such vessels must be owned at least 75 percent by U.S. citizens. If we fail to maintain compliance with the Maritime Laws, MPLX would be prohibited from operating vessels in the U.S. inland waters. Such a prohibition could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to certain continuing contingent liabilities of Marathon Oil relating to taxes and other matters and to potential liabilities pursuant to the tax sharing agreement and separation and distribution agreement we entered into with Marathon Oil that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Although the Spinoff occurred in mid-2011, certain liabilities of Marathon Oil could become our obligations. For example, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the \"Code\") and related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the Marathon Oil consolidated tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the Spinoff is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of the entire Marathon Oil consolidated tax reporting group for that taxable period. In connection with the Spinoff, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with Marathon Oil that allocates the responsibility for prior period taxes of the Marathon Oil consolidated tax reporting group between us and Marathon Oil. However, if Marathon Oil is unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is. 26. Table of Contents. responsible, we could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes. Other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans as well as other contingent liabilities.. Also pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, following the Spinoff we are responsible generally for all taxes attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, whether accruing before, on or after the Spinoff. We also agreed to be responsible for, and indemnify Marathon Oil with respect to, all taxes arising as a result of the Spinoff (or certain internal restructuring transactions) failing to qualify as transactions under Sections 368(a) and 355 of the Code for U.S. federal income tax purposes to the extent such tax liability arises as a result of any breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or other obligation by us or certain affiliates made in connection with the issuance of the private letter ruling relating to the Spinoff or in the tax sharing agreement. In addition, we agreed to indemnify Marathon Oil for specified tax-related liabilities associated with our 2005 acquisition of the minority interest in our refining joint venture from Ashland Inc. Our indemnification obligations to Marathon Oil and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited or subject to any cap. If we are required to indemnify Marathon Oil and its subsidiaries and their respective officers and directors under the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. At this time, we cannot precisely quantify the amount of these liabilities that have been assumed pursuant to the tax sharing agreement, and there can be no assurances as to their final amounts.. Also, in connection with the Spinoff, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement with Marathon Oil that provides for, among other things, the principal corporate transactions that were required to effect the Spinoff, certain conditions to the Spinoff and provisions governing the relationship between our company and Marathon Oil with respect to and resulting from the Spinoff. Among other things, the separation and distribution agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make us financially responsible for substantially all liabilities that may exist relating to our downstream business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the Spinoff, as well as certain obligations of Marathon Oil assumed by us. Our obligations to indemnify Marathon Oil under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement could subject us to substantial liabilities. Marathon Oil also agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. However, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities retained by Marathon Oil, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from Marathon Oil will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, that Marathon Oil will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations or that Marathon Oil's insurers will cover us for liabilities associated with occurrences prior to the Spinoff. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Marathon Oil or its insurers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. The tax liabilities and underlying liabilities in the event Marathon Oil is unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations described in this paragraph could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows.. Significant acquisitions in the future will involve the integration of new assets or businesses and present substantial risks that could adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows.. Significant future transactions involving the addition of new assets or businesses will present potential risks, which may include, among others:. • Inaccurate assumptions about future synergies, revenues, capital expenditures and operating costs;. • An inability to successfully integrate assets or businesses we acquire;. • A decrease in our liquidity resulting from using a portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity under our revolving credit agreement to finance transactions;. • A significant increase in our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance transactions;. • The assumption of unknown environmental and other liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which our indemnity is inadequate;. • The diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and. • The incurrence of other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges.. A significant decrease or delay in oil and natural gas production in MPLX's areas of operation, whether due to sustained declines in oil, natural gas and NGL prices, natural declines in well production, or otherwise, may adversely affect MPLX's business, results of operations and financial condition, and could reduce MPLX's ability to make distributions to us.. A significant portion of MPLX's operations are dependent upon production from oil and natural gas reserves and wells owned by its producer customers, which will naturally decline over time, which means that MPLX's cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput levels and the utilization rate of MPLX's facilities, MPLX must continually obtain new oil, natural gas and NGL supplies, which depends in part on the level of successful drilling activity near its facilities.. 27. Table of Contents. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of MPLX's operations, the amount of reserves associated with the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, drilling costs per Mcf or barrel, demand for hydrocarbons, operational challenges, access to downstream markets, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations and the availability and cost of capital. Because of these factors, even if new oil or natural gas reserves are discovered in areas served by MPLX assets, producers may choose not to develop those reserves. If MPLX is not able to obtain new supplies of oil, natural gas or NGLs to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing wells, throughput on MPLX pipelines and the utilization rates of MPLX facilities would decline, which could have a material adverse effect on MPLX's business, results of operations and financial condition and could reduce MPLX's ability to make distributions to us.. Decreases in energy prices can decrease drilling activity, production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. The prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs depend upon factors beyond our control, including global and local demand, production levels, changes in interstate pipeline gas quality specifications, imports and exports, seasonality and weather conditions, economic and political conditions domestically and internationally and governmental regulations. Sustained periods of low prices could result in producers also significantly curtailing or limiting their oil and gas drilling operations which could substantially delay the production and delivery of volumes of oil, natural gas and NGLs to MPLX's facilities and adversely affect MPLX's revenues and cash available for distribution to us. This impact may also be exacerbated due to the extent of MPLX's commodity-based contracts, which are more directly impacted by changes in natural gas and NGL prices than its fee-based contracts due to frac spread exposure and may result in operating losses when natural gas becomes more expensive on a Btu equivalent basis than NGL products. In addition, MPLX's purchase and resale of natural gas and NGLs in the ordinary course exposes MPLX to significant risk of volatility in natural gas or NGL prices due to the potential difference in the time of the purchases and sales and the potential difference in the price associated with each transaction, and direct exposure may also occur naturally as a result of MPLX's production processes. Also, the significant volatility in natural gas, NGL and oil prices could adversely impact MPLX's unit price, thereby increasing its distribution yield and cost of capital. Such impacts could adversely impact MPLX's ability to execute its long - term organic growth projects, satisfy obligations to its customers and make distributions to unitholders at intended levels, and may also result in non-cash impairments of long-lived assets or goodwill or other-than-temporary non-cash impairments of our equity method investments.. Our recently completed strategic actions designed to enhance shareholder value may not deliver the anticipated benefits.. In January 2017, we announced strategic actions designed to enhance shareholder value, including the significant acceleration of dropdowns of midstream assets into MPLX and the exchange of our economic interests in the general partner, including incentive distribution rights, for newly issued MPLX common units in conjunction with the completion of such dropdowns. On March 1, 2017, we contributed certain terminal, pipeline and storage assets to MPLX and on September 1, 2017 we contributed our joint-interest ownership in certain pipelines and storage facilities to MPLX. On February 1, 2018, we completed the dropdown of our refining logistics assets and fuels distribution services to MPLX and the exchange of our economic interests in the general partner, including incentive distribution rights, for 275 million newly issued MPLX common units. We may not be able to achieve the anticipated benefits of these actions and the market price of our common stock could decline if securities or industry analysts or our investors disagree with these strategic actions or the way we implement such actions. Accordingly, there is no assurance that these actions will be reflected in the market price of our stock to the extent currently anticipated by management.. Significant stockholders may attempt to effect changes at our company or acquire control over our company, which could impact the pursuit of business strategies and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our stockholders may from time to time engage in proxy solicitations, advance stockholder proposals or otherwise attempt to effect changes or acquire control over our company. Campaigns by stockholders to effect changes at publicly traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short-term stockholder value through actions such as financial restructuring, increased debt, special dividends, stock repurchases or sales of assets or the entire company. Responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our board of directors and senior management from the management of our operations and the pursuit of our business strategies. As a result, stockholder campaigns could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. 28. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to Our Industry. Changes in environmental or other laws or regulations may reduce our refining and marketing margin and may result in substantial capital expenditures and operating costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Various laws and regulations are expected to impose increasingly stringent and costly requirements on our operations, which may reduce our refining and marketing margin. Laws and regulations expected to become more stringent relate to the following:. • the emission or discharge of materials into the environment,. • solid and hazardous waste management,. • pollution prevention,. • greenhouse gas emissions,. • climate change,. • characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels,. • public and employee safety and health, and. • facility security.. The specific impact of laws and regulations on us and our competitors may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of operating facilities, marketing areas, crude oil and feedstock sources and production processes. We may be required to make expenditures to modify operations, install pollution control equipment, perform site cleanups or curtail operations that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Because the issue of climate change continues to receive scientific and political attention, there is the potential for further legislation or regulation that could result in increased operating costs and reduced consumer demand for the traditional transportation fuels we produce, transport, store and sell. Greenhouse gas emissions regulations could be implemented, such as methods to further reduce methane emissions from our midstream assets, a carbon tax or similar effort that increases the cost of our products, thereby reducing demand. Regardless of whether climate change legislation or regulation is enacted, given the continuing global demand for oil and gas - even under various hypothetical carbon-constrained scenarios - we believe we effectively budget for prospective costs of climate regulations in our business and strategic planning and our approval of capital project allocations. Our mature governance and risk-management processes enable us to effectively monitor and adjust to physical climate-related risks. At this time, however, we cannot predict the extent to which any such legislation or regulation will be enacted and, if enacted, what its impacts upon our operations would be.. We could also face increased climate-related litigation with respect to our operations or products. Private party litigation is pending against MPC and other oil and gas companies in California state court. Although uncertain, these types of actions could increase our costs of operations or reduce the demand for the refined products we produce, transport, store and sell.. In October 2015, the EPA reduced the primary (health) ozone NAAQS to 70 ppb from the prior ozone level of 75 ppb. On November 6, 2017, the EPA finalized ozone attainment/unclassifiable designations under the new standard. The EPA has not yet designated any counties as nonattainment under the lower primary ozone standard, but such nonattainment designations could result in increased costs associated with, or result in cancellation or delay of, capital projects at our facilities. States will also be required to adopt SIPs for nonattainment areas. These SIPs may include NOx and/or VOC reductions that could result in increased costs to our facilities. We cannot predict the various SIP requirements at this time.. The EISA established increases in fuel mileage standards. The Department of Transportation's National Highway Safety Administration and the EPA work in conjunction to establish CAFE standards and greenhouse gas emission standards for light-duty vehicles that become more stringent over time. In addition, pursuant to a waiver granted by the EPA, California and other states have enacted laws that require vehicle emission reductions. Increases in fuel mileage standards and requirements for zero emission vehicles may reduce demand for refined product.. The EISA also expanded the Renewable Fuel Standard (\"RFS\") program administered by the EPA. Governmental regulations encouraging the use of new or alternative fuels could pose a competitive threat to our operations. The EISA required the total volume of renewable transportation fuels sold or introduced annually in the U.S. to reach 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. The RFS presents production and logistics challenges for both the renewable fuels and petroleum refining industries, and may continue to require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. Gasoline consumption has been lower than forecasted by the EPA, which has led to concerns that the renewable fuel volumes may not be met. The 2018 renewable fuel standards were finalized and published on December 12, 2017. The final standards are lower than the statutory requirements but nevertheless result in volumes that breach the ethanol \"blendwall.\" The advanced biofuels. 29. Table of Contents. program, a subset of the RFS requirements, creates uncertainties and presents challenges of supply, and may require that we and other refiners and other obligated parties purchase credits from the EPA to meet our obligations.. Tax incentives and other subsidies have also made renewable fuels more competitive with refined products than they otherwise would have been, which may further reduce refined product margins. The tax incentives and subsidies are causing uncertainties because they have expired and been reinstituted retroactively. The biodiesel credit, for example, expired at the end of 2016 and there is uncertainty if it will be reinstituted.. On March 3, 2014, the EPA signed the final Tier 3 fuel standards. The final Tier 3 fuel standards require, among other things, a lower annual average sulfur level in gasoline to no more than 10 parts ppm beginning in calendar year 2017. In addition, gasoline refiners and importers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 80 ppm, while retailers may not exceed a maximum per-gallon sulfur standard of 95 ppm. We anticipate that we will spend an estimated $650 million between 2014 and 2019 for capital expenditures necessary to comply with these standards, which includes estimated capital expenditures of approximately $400 million in 2018-2019.. Federal, state and local legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could delay or impede producer's gas production or result in reduced volumes available for our midstream assets to gather, process and fractionate. While we do not conduct hydraulic fracturing operations, we do provide gathering, processing and fractionation services with respect to natural gas and natural gas liquids produced by our customers as a result of such operations. If federal, state or local laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could make it more difficult to complete natural gas wells in shale formations and increase producers' costs of compliance.. Severe weather events may adversely affect our facilities and ongoing operations.. We have mature systems in place to manage potential acute physical risks, such as floods and hurricane-force winds, and potential chronic physical risks, such as higher ocean levels. If any such events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. Specifically, where appropriate, we are hardening and modernizing assets against flood and wind damage and ensuring we have resiliency measures in place, such as storm-specific readiness plans. We have incurred and will continue to incur additional costs to protect our assets and operations from such physical risks and employ the evolving technologies and processes available to mitigate such risks. To the extent such severe weather events increase in frequency and severity, we may be required to modify operations and incur costs that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Plans we may have to expand existing assets or construct new assets are subject to risks associated with societal and political pressures and other forms of opposition to the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. Such risks could adversely impact our business and ability to realize certain growth strategies.. Our anticipated growth and planned expenditures are based upon the assumption that societal sentiment will continue to enable and existing regulations will remain intact to allow for the future development, transportation and use of carbon-based fuels. A portion of our growth strategy is dependent on our ability to expand existing assets and to construct additional assets. However, policy decisions relating to the production, refining, transportation and marketing of carbon-based fuels are subject to political pressures and the influence and protests of environmental and other special interest groups. One of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new pipelines or the expansion of existing ones. The construction of a new pipeline or the expansion of an existing pipeline, by adding horsepower or pump stations or by adding a second pipeline along an existing pipeline, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control. The approval process for storage and transportation projects has become increasingly challenging, due in part to state and local concerns related to pipelines and negative public perception regarding the oil and gas industry. These projects may not be completed on schedule (or at all) or at the budgeted cost. In addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we build a new pipeline, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. Delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities (including improvements and repairs to our existing facilities) could adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results, thereby limiting our ability to grow and generate cash flows.. Large capital projects can take many years to complete, and market conditions could deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, negatively impacting project returns. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs and in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.. Delays or cost increases related to capital spending programs involving engineering, procurement and construction of facilities  could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve forecasted internal rates of return and operating results. Delays in making. 30. Table of Contents. required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we produce. Such delays or cost increases may arise as a result of unpredictable factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:. • denial of or delay in receiving requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits;. • unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor;. • disruptions in transportation of components or construction materials;. • adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors or suppliers;. • shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages;. • market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and. • nonperformance by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or subcontractors.. Any one or more of these factors could have a significant impact on our ongoing capital projects. If we were unable to make up the delays associated with such factors or to recover the related costs, or if market conditions change, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The availability of crude oil and increases in crude oil prices may reduce profitability and refining and marketing margins.. The profitability of our operations depends largely on the difference between the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks we refine and the selling prices we obtain for refined products. A portion of our crude oil is purchased from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies, including suppliers from Canada, the Middle East and various other international locations. The market for crude oil and other feedstocks is largely a world market. We are, therefore, subject to the attendant political, geographic and economic risks of such a market. If one or more major supply sources were temporarily or permanently eliminated, we believe adequate alternative supplies of crude oil would be available, but it is possible we would be unable to find alternative sources of supply. If we are unable to obtain adequate crude oil volumes or are able to obtain such volumes only at unfavorable prices, our operations, sales of refined products and refining and marketing margins could be adversely affected, materially and adversely impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Worldwide political and economic developments could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. In addition to impacting crude oil and other feedstock supplies, political and economic factors in global markets could have a material adverse effect on us in other ways. Hostilities in the Middle East or the occurrence or threat of future terrorist attacks could adversely affect the economies of the U.S. and other developed countries. A lower level of economic activity could result in a decline in energy consumption, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects. These risks could lead to increased volatility in prices for refined products, NGLs and natural gas. Additionally, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult and/or costly for us to access capital and to obtain the insurance coverage that we consider adequate. Additionally, tax policy, legislative or regulatory action and commercial restrictions could reduce our operating profitability. For example, the U.S. government could prevent or restrict exports of refined products, NGLs, natural gas or the conduct of business with certain foreign countries.. Compliance with and changes in tax laws could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales and use, payroll, franchise, withholding and property taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations could result in increased expenditures by us for tax liabilities in the future and could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Additionally, many tax liabilities are subject to periodic audits by taxing authorities, and such audits could subject us to interest and penalties.. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or that impact our customers or the markets we serve could adversely affect our business.. The U.S. government has issued warnings that energy assets in general, including the nation's refining, pipeline and terminal infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. The threat of terrorist attacks has subjected our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attacks on our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines,. 31. Table of Contents. could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similarly, any future terrorist attacks that severely disrupt the markets we serve could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Provisions in our corporate governance documents could operate to delay or prevent a change in control of our company, dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our capital stock or affect its liquidity.. The existence of some provisions within our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us that a stockholder may consider favorable. These include provisions:. • providing that our board of directors fixes the number of members of the board;. • providing for the division of our board of directors into three classes with staggered terms;. • providing that only our board of directors may fill board vacancies;. • limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders;. • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring stockholder action to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders;. • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings;. • establishing supermajority vote requirements for certain amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and stockholder proposals for amendments to our amended and restated bylaws;. • providing that our directors may only be removed for cause;. • authorizing a large number of shares of common stock that are not yet issued, which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of our management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us; and. • authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt.. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors time to assess any acquisition proposal, and are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition.. Our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to issue, without the approval of our stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over our common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as our board of directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of our common stock. For example, we could grant holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of our board of directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or the right to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences we could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of our common stock.. Finally, to facilitate compliance with the Maritime Laws, our restated certificate of incorporation limits the aggregate percentage ownership by non-U.S. citizens of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock to 23 percent of the outstanding shares. We may prohibit transfers that would cause ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock by non-U.S. citizens to exceed 23 percent. Our restated certificate of incorporation also authorizes us to effect any and all measures necessary or desirable to monitor and limit foreign ownership of our common stock or any other class of our capital stock. These limitations could have an adverse impact on the liquidity of the market for our common stock if holders are unable to transfer shares to non-U.S. citizens due to the limitations on ownership by non-U.S. citizens. Any such limitation on the liquidity of the market for our common stock could adversely impact the market price of our common stock."
