[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. There are a number of business risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. These risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ from past performance or expected results. We consider the following risks and uncertainties to be most relevant to our specific business activities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial position.. Our business relies on residential repair and remodeling activity and, to a lesser extent, on new home construction activity, both of which are cyclical.. Our business relies on residential repair and remodeling activity and, to a lesser extent, on new home construction activity. A number of factors affect consumers' spending on home improvement projects as well as new home construction activity, including:. • consumer confidence levels;. • fluctuations in home prices;. • existing home sales;. • unemployment and underemployment levels;. • consumer income and debt levels;. • household formation;. • the availability of home equity loans and mortgages and the interest rates for and tax deductibility of such loans;. • the availability of skilled tradespeople for repair and remodeling work;. • trends in lifestyle and housing design; and. • weather and natural disasters.. The fundamentals driving our business are cyclical, and adverse changes or uncertainty involving the factors listed above could result in a decline in spending on residential repair and remodeling activity and a decline in demand for new home construction, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. We could lose market share if we do not maintain our strong brands, develop new products or respond to changing purchasing practices and consumer preferences or if our reputation is damaged.. Our competitive advantage is due, in part, to our ability to maintain our strong brands and to develop and introduce innovative new and improved products. While we continue to invest in brand building and brand awareness, these initiatives may not be successful. The uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new and improved products, such as gauging changing consumer preferences and successfully developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, may impact the success of our product introductions. If we do not introduce new or improved products in a timely manner or if these products do not gain widespread acceptance, we could lose market share, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. It is also possible that our competitors may improve their products more rapidly or effectively than we do, which could adversely affect our market share.. In recent years, consumer purchasing practices and preferences have shifted and our customers' business models and strategies have changed. As our customers execute their strategies to reach end consumers through multiple channels, they rely on us to support their efforts with our infrastructure, including maintaining robust and user-friendly websites with sufficient content for consumer research and to provide comprehensive supply chain solutions and differentiated product development. If we are unable to successfully provide this support to our customers, our brands may lose market share.. If we do not timely and effectively identify and respond to these changing purchasing practices and consumer preferences, our relationships with our customers and with consumers could be harmed, the demand for our brands and products could be reduced and our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected.. Our public image and reputation are important to maintaining our strong brands and could be adversely affected by various factors, including product quality and service, claims and comments in social media or the press, or negative publicity regarding disputes or legal action against us, even if unfounded. Damage to our public image or reputation could adversely affect our sales and results of operations and financial position.. 7. We face significant competition.. Our products face significant competition. We believe that brand reputation is an important factor affecting product selection and that we compete on the basis of product features and innovation, product quality, customer service, warranty and price. We sell many of our products through home center retailers, online retailers, distributors and independent dealers and rely on these customers to market and promote our products to consumers. Our success with our customers is dependent on our ability to provide quality products and timely delivery. In addition, home center retailers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and remodelers, are increasingly marketing directly to professional contractors and installers, which may affect our margins on our products that contractors and installers would otherwise buy through our dealers and wholesalers.. We also compete with low - cost foreign manufacturers and private label brands sold by our customers in a variety of our product groups. As market dynamics change, we may experience a shift in the mix of some products we sell toward more value - priced or opening price point products, which may affect our ability to maintain or gain market share and/or our profitability.. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position in our industries, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected.. Our sales are concentrated with two significant customers.. Our sales are concentrated with our two largest customers. In 2017, our net sales to The Home Depot were $2.5 billion (approximately 33 percent of our consolidated net sales), and our net sales to Lowe's were less than 10 percent of our consolidated net sales. Our reliance on these significant customers may further increase if the mix of our business operations changes, including as a result of acquisitions or divestitures. These home center retailers can significantly affect the prices we receive for our products and the terms and conditions on which we do business with them. Additionally, these home center retailers may reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase and could make significant changes in their volume of purchases from us. Although other retailers, dealers, distributors and homebuilders represent other channels of distribution for our products and services, we might not be able to quickly replace, if at all, the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to The Home Depot or the loss of all of our sales to Lowe's, and any such loss would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position.. Further, as these home center retailers expand their markets and targeted customers and as consumer purchasing practices change and e - commerce increases, conflicts between our existing distribution channels have and will continue to occur, which could affect our results of operations and financial position. Our relationships with these customers may be affected if we increase the amount of business we transact directly with consumers and professionals. In addition, these home center retailers are granted product exclusivity from time to time, which increases the complexity of our product offerings and our costs and may affect our ability to offer products to other customers.. Variability in commodity costs or limited availability of commodities could affect our results of operations and financial position.. Various commodities, including, among others, brass, resins, titanium dioxide, zinc, wood and glass, are used to produce our products. Fluctuations in the availability and prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products. Our production of products could also be affected if we or our suppliers are unable to procure our requirements for these commodities or if a shortage of these commodities drives their prices to levels that are not commercially feasible. Further, increases in energy costs could increase our production and transportation costs. In addition, water is a significant component of many of our architectural coatings products and may be subject to restrictions in certain regions. These factors could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. It can be difficult for us to pass on to customers cost increases to cover our increased commodity and production costs. Our existing arrangements with customers, competitive considerations and customer resistance to price increases may delay or make us unable to adjust selling prices. If we are not able to increase the prices of our products or achieve cost savings to offset increased commodity and production costs, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. If we are able to increase our selling prices, sustained price increases for our products may lead to sales declines and loss of market share, particularly if our competitors do not increase their prices. When commodity prices decline, we have experienced and may in the future receive pressure from our customers to reduce our prices. Such reductions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. 8. From time to time we enter into long-term agreements with certain significant suppliers to help ensure continued availability of key commodities and to establish firm pricing, but at times these contractual commitments may result in our paying above market prices for commodities during the term of the contract. Occasionally, we also may use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and swaps. This strategy increases the possibility that we may make commitments for these commodities at prices that subsequently exceed their market prices, which has occurred and could occur in the future and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. We are dependent on third-party suppliers.. We are dependent on third - party suppliers for many of our products and components, and our ability to offer a wide variety of products depends on our ability to obtain an adequate and/or timely supply of these products and components. Failure of our suppliers to timely provide us quality products on commercially reasonable terms, or to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Resourcing these products and components to another supplier could take time and involve significant costs. Accordingly, the loss of critical suppliers, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products or components from our suppliers, could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. Many of the suppliers upon whom we rely are located in foreign countries. The differences in business practices, shipping and delivery requirements and laws and regulations, together with the limited number of suppliers, have increased the complexity of our supply chain logistics and the potential for interruptions in our production scheduling. If we are unable to effectively manage our supply chain or if there is a disruption in transporting the products or components, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected.. There are risks associated with International operations and global strategies.. Approximately 21 percent of our sales are made outside of North America (principally in Europe) and are transacted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition to our European operations, we manufacture products in Asia and source products and components from third parties globally. Risks associated with our international operations include changes in political, monetary and social environments, labor conditions and practices, the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, social and political unrest, terrorist attacks, cultural differences and differences in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights.. Our results of operations and financial position are also affected by international economic conditions, primarily in Europe. Unfavorable currency conversion rates, particularly the Euro, the British pound sterling, the Canadian dollar and the Chinese Yuan Renminbi, have in the past adversely affected us, and could adversely affect us in the future. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may present challenges in comparing operating performance from period to period.. As the situation involving the United Kingdom's decision to exit from the European Union develops, we could experience volatility in the currency exchange rates and/or a change in the demand for our products and services, particularly in our U.K. and European markets, or there could be disruption of our operations and our customers' and suppliers' businesses.. We are also affected by laws applicable to U.S. companies doing business abroad or importing goods and materials. These include tax laws, laws regulating competition, anti - bribery/anti - corruption and other business practices, and trade regulations, which may include duties and tariffs. While it is difficult to assess what changes may occur and the relative effect on our international tax structure, significant changes in how U.S. and foreign jurisdictions tax cross - border transactions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. We may not achieve all of the anticipated benefits of our strategic initiatives.. We continue to pursue our strategic initiatives of investing in our brands, developing innovative products, and focusing on operational excellence through our continued deployment of the Masco Operating System, our methodology to drive growth and productivity into our business units. All of these initiatives are designed to grow revenue, improve profitability and increase shareholder value over the mid -  to long - term. Our business performance and results could be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully execute these initiatives or if we are unable to execute these initiatives in a timely and efficient manner. We could also be adversely affected if we have not appropriately prioritized and balanced our initiatives or if we are unable to effectively manage change throughout our organization.. 9. We may not be able to successfully execute our acquisition strategy or integrate businesses that we acquire.. Pursuing the acquisition of businesses complementary to our portfolio is a component of our strategy for future growth. If we are not able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate potential acquisitions at acceptable terms and prices, our long - term competitive positioning may be affected. Even if we are successful in acquiring businesses, we may experience risks in integrating these businesses into our existing business. Such risks include difficulties realizing expected synergies and economies of scale, diversion of our resources, unforeseen liabilities, issues with the new or existing customers or suppliers, and difficulties in retaining critical employees of the acquired businesses. Future foreign acquisitions may also increase our exposure to foreign currency risks and risks associated with interpretation and enforcement of foreign regulations. Our failure to address these risks could cause us to incur additional costs and/or fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. The long-term performance of our businesses relies on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented personnel.. To be successful, we must attract, develop and retain highly qualified, talented and diverse personnel who have the experience, knowledge and expertise to successfully implement our key strategic initiatives. We compete for employees with a broad range of employers in many different industries, including large multinational firms, and we invest significant resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. We have been affected by a shortage of qualified personnel in certain geographic areas. Our growth, competitive position and results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected by our failure to attract, develop and retain key employees, to build strong leadership teams, or to develop effective succession planning to assure smooth transitions of those employees and the knowledge and expertise they possess, or by a shortage of qualified personnel.. We may not experience the anticipated benefits from our investments in new technology.. We are making significant investments in new technology systems throughout our company, including concurrent implementations of Enterprise Resource Planning (\"ERP\") systems at our larger business units. ERP implementations are complex and require significant management oversight. While we are leveraging our experience and engaging consultants to assist as we deploy ERP systems, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, unanticipated expenses and interruptions to our operations during these implementations. These interruptions could affect our ability to produce and ship goods to our customers or to timely report financial results. Our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected if we do not appropriately select and implement our new technology systems in a timely manner or if we experience significant unanticipated expenses or disruptions in connection with the implementation of ERP systems.. We rely on information systems and technology, and a breakdown of these systems could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. We rely on many information systems and technology to process, transmit, store and manage information to support our business activities. We may be adversely affected if our information systems breakdown, fail, or are no longer supported. In addition to the consequences that may occur from interruptions in our systems, increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted attacks pose a risk to our information technology systems, and a cybersecurity breach could disrupt our operations. We have established security policies, processes and layers of defense designed to help identify and protect against intentional and unintentional misappropriation or corruption of our systems and information and disruption of our operations.. Despite these efforts, our systems may be damaged, disrupted, or shut down due to attacks by unauthorized access, malicious software, undetected intrusion, hardware failures, or other events, and in these circumstances our disaster recovery plans may be ineffective or inadequate. These breaches or intrusions could lead to business interruption, exposure of proprietary or confidential information, data corruption, damage to our reputation and the reputation of our brands, exposure to litigation, and increased operational costs. Such events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. In addition, we could be adversely affected if any of our significant customers or suppliers experiences any similar events that disrupt their business operations or damage their reputation.. 10. We may not be able to sustain the improved results of our U.S. window business.. Our U.S. window business, Milgard Manufacturing Incorporated (\"Milgard\"), has experienced operational issues and production inefficiencies. In addition, Milgard's phased deployment of a new ERP system to improve its business processes has been complex and requires significant management oversight and resources. While Milgard's results are improving, there is no assurance that we will be able to sustain this improvement or that our turnaround plan will continue to be successful. Milgard has also been affected by a shortage of qualified personnel in certain geographic areas. If Milgard experiences unanticipated expenses, setbacks or additional disruptions to its operations, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected.. Claims and litigation could be costly.. We are involved in various claims and litigation, including class actions and regulatory proceedings, that arise in the ordinary course of our business and that could have a material adverse effect on us. The types of matters may include, among others: competition, product liability, employment, warranty, advertising, contract, personal injury, environmental, intellectual property, and insurance coverage. Given the inherently unpredictable nature of claims and litigation, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any such matter. Defending and resolving claims and litigation can be costly and can divert management's attention. We have and may continue to incur significant costs as a result of claims and litigation.. We are also subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant costs and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, create adverse publicity and damage the reputation of our brands and business. Also, we rely on other manufacturers to provide products or components for products that we sell. Due to the difficulty of controlling the quality of products and components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers.. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks of loss resulting from claims and litigation. The levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities. If any significant accident, judgment, claim or other event is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. Refer to Note S to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report for additional information about litigation involving our businesses.. Compliance with laws, government regulation and industry standards could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. We are subject to a wide variety of federal, state, local and foreign government laws and regulations, including securities laws, tax laws, anti-bribery/anti-corruption laws and employment laws, as well as those pertaining to health and safety (including protection of employees and consumers), product compliance, competition practices, import and export regulations, data privacy and the collection and storage of information, climate change and environmental issues. In addition to complying with current requirements and requirements that will become effective at a future date, even more stringent requirements could be imposed on us in the future. As we sell new types of products or existing products in new geographic areas, our failure to comply with the requirements applicable to those products or regions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Additionally, some of our products must be certified by industry organizations. Compliance with these laws, regulations and industry standards may require us to alter our product designs, our manufacturing processes, our packaging or our sourcing. Compliance activities are costly and require significant management attention and resources. If we do not effectively and timely comply with such regulations and industry standards, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected.. We may not be able to adequately protect or prevent the unauthorized use of our intellectual property.. Protecting our intellectual property is important to our growth and innovation efforts. We own a number of patents, trade names, brand names and other forms of intellectual property in our products and manufacturing processes throughout the world. There can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights will prevent violations. Our intellectual property may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties, particularly in countries where property rights are not highly developed or protected. In addition, the global nature of our business increases the risk that we may be unable to obtain or maintain our intellectual property rights on reasonable terms. Furthermore, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us. Current and former employees, contractors or suppliers. 11. have or may have had access to proprietary or confidential information regarding our business operations that could harm us if used by, or disclosed to others, including our competitors. Protecting and defending our intellectual property could be costly, time consuming and require significant resources. If we are not able to protect our existing intellectual property rights, or prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property, sales of our products may be affected and we may experience reputational damage to our brand names, increased litigation costs and adverse impact to our competitive position, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position.. Restrictive covenants in our credit agreement could limit our financial flexibility.. We must comply with both financial and nonfinancial covenants in our credit agreement, and in order to borrow under it, we cannot be in default with any of those provisions. Our ability to borrow under the credit agreement could be affected if our earnings significantly decline to a level where we are not in compliance with the financial covenants or if we default on any nonfinancial covenants. In the past, we have been able to amend the covenants in our credit agreement, but there can be no assurance that in the future we would be able to further amend them. If we were unable to borrow under our credit agreement, our financial flexibility could be restricted."
