[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks come to fruition, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Revenues. We currently derive the majority of our revenue from our Masimo SET® platform, Masimo rainbow SET\231 platform and related products. If these technologies and related products do not continue to achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.. We are highly dependent upon the continued success and market acceptance of our proprietary Masimo SET® technology that serves as the basis of our primary product offerings. Continued market acceptance of products incorporating Masimo SET® will depend upon us continuing to provide evidence to the medical community that our products are cost-effective and offer significantly improved performance compared to conventional pulse oximeters. Health care providers that currently have significant investments in competitive pulse oximetry products may be reluctant to purchase our products. If hospitals and other health care providers do not believe our Masimo SET® platform is cost-effective, safe or more accurate or reliable than competitive pulse oximetry products, they may not buy our products in sufficient quantities to enable us to generate revenue growth from the sale of these products. In addition, allegations regarding the safety and effectiveness of our products, whether or not substantiated, may impair or impede the acceptance of our products. If we are unable to achieve additional market acceptance of our core technology or products incorporating Masimo SET®, we will not generate significant revenue growth from the sale of our products, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Some of our products are in development or have been recently introduced into the market and may not achieve market acceptance, which could limit our growth and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Products that we have introduced into the market in recent years may not be accepted in the market. In general, our recent noninvasive measurement technologies are considered disruptive. These recent technologies have performance levels that we believe are acceptable for many clinical environments but may be insufficient in others. In addition, these technologies may perform better in some patients and settings than others. Over time, we hope to continue to improve the performance of these technologies and educate the clinical community on how to properly evaluate them. If we are successful in these endeavors, we expect these technologies will become more useful in more environments and will become more widely adopted. While this is the adoption pattern experienced historically with other new noninvasive measurements, such as regional oximetry, we are unable to guarantee that such adoption pattern will apply to our recent and future technologies.. Even if our customers recognize the benefits of our products, we cannot assure you that our customers will purchase them in quantities sufficient for us to be profitable or successful. We are continuing to invest in significant sales and marketing resources to achieve market acceptance of these products with no assurance of success.. The degree of market acceptance of these products will depend on a number of factors, including:. • perceived clinical benefits from our products;. • perceived cost effectiveness of our products;. • perceived safety and effectiveness of our products;. • reimbursement available through Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) programs for using some of our products; and. • introduction and acceptance of competing products or technologies.. If our products do not gain market acceptance or if our customers prefer our competitors' products, our potential revenue growth would be limited, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to commercialize new products, new or improved technologies and additional applications for Masimo SET® and our licensed rainbow® technology is limited to certain markets by our Cross-Licensing Agreement with Cercacor Laboratories, Inc. (Cercacor), which may impair our growth and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 32. Table of Contents. We are party to a cross-licensing agreement with Cercacor, which has been amended several times, most recently in an Amended and Restated Cross-Licensing Agreement, effective January 1, 2007 (the Cross-Licensing Agreement). Under the Cross-Licensing Agreement, we granted Cercacor:. • an exclusive, perpetual and worldwide license, with sublicense rights, to use all Masimo SET® technology owned by us, including all improvements on this technology, for the monitoring of non-vital signs parameters and to develop and sell devices incorporating Masimo SET® for monitoring non-vital signs parameters in any product market in which a product is intended to be used by a patient or pharmacist rather than by a professional medical caregiver, which we refer to as the Cercacor Market; and. • a non-exclusive, perpetual and worldwide license, with sublicense rights, to use all Masimo SET® technology owned by us for measurement of vital signs in the Cercacor Market.. Non-vital signs measurements consist of body fluid constituents other than vital signs measurements, including, but not limited to, carbon monoxide, methemoglobin, blood glucose, hemoglobin and bilirubin. Under the Cross-Licensing Agreement, we are only permitted to sell devices utilizing Masimo SET® for the monitoring of non-vital signs parameters in markets where the product is intended to be used by a professional medical caregiver, including, but not limited to, hospital caregivers and alternate care facility caregivers, rather than by a patient or pharmacist, which we refer to as the Masimo Market. Accordingly, our ability to commercialize new products, new or improved technologies and additional applications for Masimo SET® is limited. In particular, our inability to expand beyond the Masimo Market may limit our ability to maintain or increase our revenue and impair our growth.. Pursuant to the Cross-Licensing Agreement, we have licensed from Cercacor the right to make and distribute products in the Masimo Market that utilize rainbow® technology for certain noninvasive measurements. As a result, the opportunity to expand the market for our products incorporating rainbow® technology is also limited, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our revenue and impair our growth.. We face competition from other companies, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do. If we do not successfully develop and commercialize enhanced or new products that remain competitive with products or alternative technologies developed by others, we could lose revenue opportunities and customers, and our ability to grow our business would be impaired, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations.. The medical device industry is intensely competitive and is significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. A number of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources, larger product portfolios, larger customer bases, larger sales forces and greater geographic presence, have established stronger reputations with specific customers, and have built relationships with Group Purchasing Organizations (GPOs) that may be more effective than ours. Our Masimo SET® platform faces additional competition from companies developing products for use with third-party monitoring systems, as well as from companies that currently market their own pulse oximetry monitors. In addition, competitors with larger product portfolios than ours may offer increased discounts to hospitals that purchase their requirements for a variety of different products from the competitor, including products that we do not offer.. Rapid product development and technological advances within the medical device industry place our products at risk of obsolescence. Our long-term success depends upon the development and successful commercialization of new products, new or improved technologies and additional applications for Masimo SET® and licensed rainbow® technology. The research and development process is time-consuming and costly and may not result in products or applications that we can successfully commercialize. In particular, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products for applications other than arterial blood oxygen saturation and pulse rate monitoring, such as for respiration rate, hemoglobin, carboxyhemoglobin and methemoglobin monitoring.. If we do not successfully adapt our products and applications both within and outside these measurements, we could lose revenue opportunities and customers. Furthermore, one or more of our competitors may develop products that are substantially equivalent to our U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) cleared products, or those of our original equipment manufacturer (OEM) partners, in which case a competitor of ours may use our products or those of our OEM partners as predicate devices to more quickly obtain FDA clearance of their competing products. Competition could result in pressure from our customers to reduce the price of our products and in fewer orders for our products, which could, in turn, cause a reduction in our revenues and product gross margins, thereby adversely impacting our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We depend on our domestic and international OEM partners for a portion of our revenue. If they do not devote sufficient resources to the promotion of products that use Masimo SET® and licensed rainbow® technology, our business would be harmed.. 33. Table of Contents. We are, and will continue to be, dependent upon our domestic and international OEM partners for a portion of our revenue through their marketing, selling and distribution of certain of their products that incorporate Masimo SET® and licensed rainbow® technology. Although we expect that our OEM partners will accept and actively market, sell and distribute products that incorporate licensed rainbow® technology, they may not elect, and have no contractual obligation, to do so. Because products that incorporate our technologies may represent a relatively small percentage of business for some of our OEM partners, they may have less incentive to promote these products over other products that do not incorporate these technologies. In addition, some of our OEM partners offer products that compete with ours and also may be involved in intellectual property disputes with us. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that our OEM partners, or any company that may acquire any of our OEM partners, will vigorously promote products incorporating Masimo SET® and licensed rainbow® technology. The failure of our OEM partners to successfully market, sell or distribute products incorporating these technologies, the termination of OEM agreements, the loss of OEM partners or the inability to enter into future OEM partnership agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to maintain or develop relationships with GPOs, sales of our products would decline.. Our ability to sell our products to U.S. hospitals depends, in part, on our relationships with GPOs. Many existing and potential customers for our products are members of GPOs. GPOs negotiate beneficial pricing arrangements and contracts, which are sometimes exclusive, with medical supply manufacturers and distributors.. These negotiated prices are made available to a GPO's affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are not one of the providers selected by a GPO, the GPO's affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely or unlikely to purchase our products. If a GPO has negotiated a strict sole source, market share compliance or bundling contract for another manufacturer's products, we may be prohibited from making sales to members of such GPO for the duration of such contractual arrangement. For the years ended December 30, 2017, December 31, 2016 and January 2, 2016, shipments of our pulse oximetry products to customers that are members of GPOs represented approximately $417.2 million, $375.0 million and $337.4 million, respectively, of our revenue from sales to U.S. hospitals. Our failure to renew our contracts with GPOs may cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we are unable to develop new relationships with GPOs, our competitive position would likely suffer and our opportunities to grow our revenues and business would be harmed.. Certain GPOs are creating, coordinating and facilitating regional purchasing coalition (RPC) supply chain networks that include anti-competitive practices such as sole sourcing and bundling. These RPCs circumvent and potentially violate rules of conduct for GPOs and have the effect of reducing product purchasing decisions available to the hospitals that belong to these regional organizations. If the GPOs and RPCs are permitted to continue practices that limit, reduce or eliminate competition, we could lose customers who are no longer able to choose to purchase our products, resulting in lower sales that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Inadequate levels of coverage or reimbursement from governmental or other third-party payers for our products, or for procedures using our products, may cause our revenue to decline.. Sales of our products depend in part on the reimbursement and coverage policies of governmental and private health care payers. The ability of our health care provider customers, including hospitals, to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products or the procedures in which our products are used may impact our customers' purchasing decisions. Therefore, our customers' inability to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products or reimbursement for the procedures in which our products are used would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Third-party payers have adopted, and are continuing to adopt, health care policies intended to curb rising health care costs. These policies include, among others:. • controls on reimbursement for health care services and price controls on medical products and services;. • limitations on coverage and reimbursement for new medical technologies and procedures; and. • the introduction of managed care and prospective payment systems in which health care providers contract to provide comprehensive health care for a fixed reimbursement amount per person or per procedure.. We cannot guarantee that governmental or third-party payers will reimburse, or continue to reimburse, a customer for the cost of our products or the procedures in which our products are used. In fact, some payers have indicated that they are not willing to reimburse for certain of our products or for certain of the procedures in which our products are used. For example, some insurance carriers have issued policies denying coverage for transcutaneous hemoglobin measurement on the grounds that the technology is investigational in the outpatient setting. Other payers are continuing to investigate our products to determine if they will provide reimbursement to our customers. These trends could lead to pressure to reduce prices for our current and future products and could cause a decrease in the size of the market or a potential increase in competition that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 34. Table of Contents. We do not control payor decision-making with respect to coverage and payment levels for our products. Additionally, we expect many payors to continue to explore cost-containment strategies (e.g., comparative and cost-effectiveness analyses, so-called \"pay-for-performance\" programs implemented by various public government health care programs and private third-party payors, and expansion of payment bundling initiatives, and other such methods that shift medical cost risk to providers) that may potentially impact coverage and/or payment levels for our current products or products we develop in the future.. Our customers may reduce, delay or cancel purchases due to a variety of factors, such as lower hospital census levels or third-party guidelines, or may require that we reduce the price of our products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our customers are facing growing levels of uncertainties, including variations in overall hospital census for paying patients and the impact of such census variations on hospital budgets. As a result, many hospitals are reevaluating their entire cost structure, including the amount of capital they allocate to medical device technologies and products. Such developments could have a significant negative impact on our OEM customers who, due to their traditionally larger capital equipment sales model, could see declines in purchases from their hospital customers. This, in turn, could reduce our board sales to our OEM customers.. In addition, certain of our products, including our rainbow® measurements such as carbon monoxide, methemoglobin and hemoglobin, that are sold with upfront license fees and more complex and expensive sensors, could also be impacted by hospital budget reductions.. States and other local regulatory authorities may issue guidelines regarding the appropriate scope and use of our products from time to time. For example, some of our noninvasive monitoring devices may be subject to authorization by individual states as part of the Emergency Medical Services scope of practice procedures. Although a lack of inclusion into scope of practice procedures does not prohibit usage, it may limit adoption.. Additionally, as a result of the continued consolidation in the health care industry, we may experience decreasing prices for our products due to the potential increased market pricing power of our health care provider customers. If these and other competitive forces drive down the price of our products, and we are not able to counter that pressure with cost reductions to our existing products or the introduction of new higher priced products, our product gross profit margins will decline. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The loss of any large customer or distributor, or any cancellation or delay of a significant purchase by a large customer, could reduce our net sales and harm our operating results.. We have a concentration of OEM, distribution and direct customers. We cannot provide any assurance that we will retain our current customers, groups of customers or distributors, or that we will be able to attract and retain additional customers in the future. If for any reason we were to lose our ability to sell to a specific group or class of customers, or through a distributor, we could experience a significant reduction in revenue, which would adversely impact our operating results. For the years ended December 30, 2017, December 31, 2016 and January 2, 2016, we had sales through two just-in-time distributors, which in total represented approximately 23.9%, 26.8% and 26.3% of our total revenue, respectively.. Our sales could also be negatively affected by any rebates, discounts or fees that are required by, or offered to, GPOs and customers, including wholesalers or distributors. Additionally, some of our just-in-time distributors have been demanding higher fees, which we may be forced to pay in order to continue to offer products to our customers or which may force us to distribute our products directly to our customers. The loss of any large customer or distributor, or an increase in distributor fees, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our royalty and other revenue currently consists primarily of royalties received from Medtronic plc (Medtronic, formerly Covidien Ltd.) related to its U.S. sales pursuant to the terms of our settlement agreement, and revenue from non-recurring engineering (NRE) services for a certain OEM customer. Pursuant to the terms of the Third Amendment to Settlement Agreement and Release of Claims effective September 2016, Medtronic agreed to continue paying royalties through October 6, 2018, after which no more royalties will be due. In addition, we expect to complete the remaining contracted NRE services for our OEM customer next year. We currently do not expect to replace this royalty and NRE services revenue with revenue from other sources, and such loss of revenue will have an adverse effect on our future results of operations.. Imitation Masimo sensors and third-party medical device reprocessors that reprocess our single-patient-use sensors may harm our reputation. Also, these imitation and third-party reprocessed sensors, as well as genuine Masimo reprocessed sensors, are sold at lower prices than new Masimo sensors and could cause our revenue to decline, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 35. Table of Contents. We believe that other organizations are manufacturing and selling imitation Masimo sensors. In addition, certain medical device reprocessors have been collecting our used single-patient-use sensors from hospitals and then reprocessing, repackaging and reselling those sensors to hospitals. These imitation and third-party reprocessed sensors are sold at lower prices than new Masimo sensors. Our experience with both these imitation sensors and third-party reprocessed sensors is that they provide inferior performance, increased sensor consumption, reduced comfort and a number of monitoring problems. Notwithstanding these limitations, some of our customers have indicated a willingness to purchase some of their sensor requirements from these imitation manufacturers and third-party reprocessors in an effort to reduce their sensor costs. These imitation and reprocessed sensors have led and may continue to lead to confusion with our genuine Masimo products; have reduced and may continue to reduce our revenue; and, in some cases, have harmed and may continue to harm our reputation if customers conclude incorrectly that these imitation or reprocessed sensors are original Masimo sensors.. In addition, we have expended a significant amount of time and expense investigating issues caused by imitation and reprocessed sensors, troubleshooting problems stemming from such sensors, educating customers about why imitation and reprocessed sensors do not perform to their expectations, enforcing our proprietary rights against the imitation manufacturers and reprocessors, and enforcing our contractual rights under our customer contracts.. In response to these imitation sensors and third-party reprocessors, we offer to our customers our own Masimo reprocessed sensors, which we re-manufacture and test to ensure that they meet the same performance specifications as our new Masimo sensors. In addition, we have incorporated X-Cal® technology into certain products to ensure our customers get the performance they expect by using genuine Masimo sensors and that such sensors do not continue to be used beyond their useful life. We believe this technology will help ensure that hospitals, clinicians and, ultimately, their patients receive true Masimo measurement quality and performance, and will curtail some of the harm to us that results when customers experience performance and other problems with imitation and reprocessed sensors. However, some customers may object to the X-Cal® technology, potentially resulting in the loss of customers and revenues. In addition, reprocessed sensors sold by us are generally offered at a lower price and, therefore, may reduce certain customer demand for our new sensors. As a result, increased sales of genuine Masimo reprocessed sensors may result in lower revenues, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, we may carry out strategic initiatives that may not be viewed favorably by our customers, or that could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We expect to continue to carry out strategic initiatives and investments that we believe are necessary to grow our revenues and expand our business, both in the U.S. and abroad. For example, we have continued to make incremental investments in additional sales force resources and invest in international expansion programs designed to increase our worldwide presence and take advantage of market expansion opportunities around the world. Although we believe these initiatives and investments continue to be in the long-term best interests of Masimo and our stockholders, there are no assurances that such initiatives and investments will yield favorable results for us. Accordingly, if these initiatives and investments are not viewed favorably by our customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. If the patents we own or license, or our other intellectual property rights, do not adequately protect our technologies, we may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably.. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our rights to the technologies used in our products, including Masimo SET® and licensed rainbow® technology. We rely on patent protection, trade secrets and a combination of copyright and trademark laws, as well as nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual arrangements, to protect our technology and rights. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or maintain any competitive advantage. In addition, we cannot be assured that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent to us. The PTO may deny or require a significant narrowing of claims in our pending patent applications, and patents issued as a result of the pending patent applications, if any, may not provide us with significant commercial protection or may not be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. We could also incur substantial costs in proceedings before the PTO.. As part of the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (the Leahy-Smith Act), which was enacted in 2011, the PTO has introduced new post-grant review procedures that provide additional administrative pathways for third parties to challenge issued patents. Inter-Partes Review (IPR) is one of these procedures. In many IPR challenges, the PTO is canceling or significantly narrowing issued patent claims. Accordingly, even if a patent is granted by the PTO, there is a risk that it may not withstand an IPR challenge. IPR challenges could increase the uncertainties and costs associated with the maintenance, enforcement and defense of our issued and future patents and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of. 36. Table of Contents. operations. In addition, recent case law has increased uncertainty regarding the availability of patent protection for certain technologies and the costs associated with obtaining patent protection for those technologies.. Our patents related to Masimo SET® algorithm technology began to expire in 2011. Certain other patents related to our ProCal sensor technology began to expire in 2015. Additionally, upon the expiration of other issued or licensed patents, we may lose some of our rights to exclude competitors from making, using, selling or importing products using the technology based on the expired patents. While we seek to secure additional patents on commercially desirable improvements, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in securing such additional patents, or that such additional patents will adequately protect our innovations or offset the effect of expiring patents. For example, the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations.. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future, this combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents once obtained. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts and the PTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce patents that we might obtain in the future. Additionally, there is no assurance that competitors will not be able to design around our patents.. We also rely on contractual rights with the third parties that license technology to us to protect our rights in such licensed technology. In addition, we rely on unpatented proprietary technology. We cannot assure you that we can meaningfully protect all of our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary products or processes or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology.. We seek to protect our know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology with confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, OEM partners, independent distributors and consultants. However, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements or in the event that our competitors discover or independently develop similar or identical designs or other proprietary information. In addition, we rely on the use of registered and common law trademarks with respect to the brand names of some of our products. Common law trademarks provide less protection than registered trademarks. Loss of rights in our trademarks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. If we fail to apply for intellectual property protection or if we cannot adequately protect our intellectual property rights in these foreign countries, our competitors may be able to compete more effectively against us, which could adversely affect our competitive position, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If third parties claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights, we may incur liabilities and costs and may have to redesign or discontinue selling certain products.. Searching for existing intellectual property rights may not reveal important intellectual property and our competitors may also have filed for patent protection, which may not be publicly-available information, or claimed trademark rights that have not been revealed through our searches. In addition, some of our employees were previously employed at other medical device companies. We may be subject to claims that our employees have disclosed, or that we have used, trade secrets or other proprietary information of our employees' former employers. Our efforts to identify and avoid infringing on third parties' intellectual property rights may not always be successful. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us, even those without merit, could:. • increase the cost of our products;. • be expensive and time consuming to defend;. • result in us being required to pay significant damages to third parties;. • force us to cease making or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property;. • require us to redesign, reengineer or rebrand our products, product candidates and technologies;. • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third-party's intellectual property on terms that may not be favorable or acceptable to us;. • require us to indemnify third parties pursuant to contracts in which we have agreed to provide indemnification for intellectual property infringement claims;. • divert the attention of our management and other key employees;. 37. Table of Contents. • result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products impacted by the claims until the claims are resolved; and. • otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, new patents obtained by our competitors could threaten the continued commercialization of our products in the market even after they have already been introduced.. We believe competitors may currently be violating and may in the future violate our intellectual property rights. As a result, we may initiate litigation to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, which may result in substantial expense and may divert management's attention from implementing our business strategy.. We believe that the success of our business depends, in part, on obtaining patent protection for our products and technologies, defending our patents and preserving our trade secrets. We were previously involved in significant litigation to protect our patent positions related to some of our pulse oximetry signal processing patents that resulted in various settlements, most recently in 2016, and may be required to engage in additional litigation to protect our intellectual property in the future. Our ongoing and future litigation could result in significant additional costs and further divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations and the implementation of our business strategy and may not be adequate to protect our intellectual property rights.. Risks Related to Our Regulatory Environment. Our failure to obtain and maintain FDA clearances or approvals on a timely basis, or at all, would prevent us from commercializing our current or upgraded products in the U.S., which could severely harm our business.. Each medical device that we wish to market in the U.S. generally must first undergo premarket review by the FDA and receive clearance or approval pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) by receiving clearance of a 510(k) premarket notification, receiving clearance through the de novo review process, or obtaining approval of a premarket approval (PMA) application. Even if regulatory clearance or approval of a product is granted, the FDA may clear or approve our products only for limited indications for use, limiting our ability to market the product for only the FDA approved or cleared indications for use. The FDA may not grant 510(k) clearance on a timely basis, if at all, for new products or uses that we propose for Masimo SET® or licensed rainbow® technology. The traditional FDA 510(k) clearance process for our products has generally taken between three to six months. However, our more recent experience and interactions with the FDA, along with information we have received from other medical device manufacturers, suggests that, in some cases, the FDA is requiring applicants to provide additional or different information and data for 510(k) clearance than it had previously required; and that the FDA may not rely on approaches that it had previously accepted to support 510(k) clearance.. These changes could lead to more review cycles or to decisions by the FDA that our products are not substantially equivalent or require greater amounts of information to demonstrate substantial equivalence. As a result, we have experienced lengthier FDA 510(k) review periods over the past few years, which have delayed the 510(k) clearance process for our products.. To support our product applications to the FDA, we frequently are required to conduct clinical testing of our products. Such clinical testing must be conducted in compliance with FDA requirements pertaining to human research. Among other requirements, we must obtain informed consent from human subjects and approval by institutional review boards before such studies may begin. We must also comply with other FDA requirements such as monitoring, record-keeping, reporting and the submission of information regarding certain clinical trials to a public database maintained by the National Institutes of Health. In addition, depending on the risk posed by a study, we may be required to obtain the FDA's approval of the study under an Investigational Device Exemption (IDE). Compliance with these requirements can require significant time and resources and if the FDA determines that we have not complied with such requirements, it may refuse to consider the data to support our applications or initiate enforcement actions.. Even though 510(k) clearances have been obtained, if safety or effectiveness problems are identified with our pulse oximeters incorporating Masimo SET® and licensed rainbow® technology, patient monitor devices, sensors, cables and other products, we may need to initiate a recall of such devices. Furthermore, our new products or significantly modified marketed products could be denied 510(k) clearance and be required to undergo the more burdensome PMA or de novo review processes. The process of obtaining clearance of a de novo request or approval of a PMA is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the process for obtaining 510(k) clearance. Clearance of a de novo request generally takes six months to one year from the time of submission of the de novo request, although it can take longer. Approval of a PMA generally takes one to three years from the time of submission of the PMA, but may be longer.. We sell consumer versions of our iSpO2® and MightySat\231 pulse oximeters that are not intended for medical use. We believe we are marketing these products in accordance with legal requirements that apply to products that are intended for general wellness or fitness uses. Some of our products or product features may also be exempted from the 510(k) process and/or other regulatory. 38. Table of Contents. requirements in accordance with specific FDA guidance and policies, such as the FDA guidance related to mobile medical applications. In addition, some of our products or product features may not be subject to device regulation under Section 520(o) of the FDCA, which was enacted as part of the 21st Century Cures Act (Cures Act) in December 2016 and excludes certain software functions from the statutory definition of a device. Laws affecting our products may change or the FDA may change its enforcement policy regarding the regulation of these products. If the FDA changes its policy or concludes that our marketing of these products is not in accordance with its current policy and/or Section 520(o) of the FDCA, we may be required to seek clearance or approval of these devices through the 510(k), de novo or PMA processes.. The failure of our OEM partners to obtain required FDA clearances or approvals for products that incorporate our technologies could have a negative impact on our revenue.. Our OEM partners are required to obtain their own FDA clearances for products incorporating Masimo SET® and licensed rainbow® technology to market these products in the U.S. The FDA clearances we have obtained may not make it easier for our OEM partners to obtain clearances of products incorporating these technologies, or the FDA may not grant clearances on a timely basis, if at all, for any future product incorporating Masimo SET® and licensed rainbow® technology that our OEM partners propose to market.. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market.. Our products, along with the manufacturing processes, labeling and promotional activities for our products, are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Among other requirements, we and our suppliers are required to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation (QSR), which covers the methods and documentation of the design, control testing, production, component suppliers control, quality assurance, complaint handling, labeling control, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA enforces the QSR through announced and unannounced inspections. We are also subject to similar state requirements and licenses.. In 2013, the FDA inspected our facility in Irvine, California and issued an FDA Form 483 listing observations the investigator believed may constitute violations of statutes or regulations administered by the FDA, including observations relating to complaint handling, medical device reporting and corrective and preventative action (CAPA) procedures. We submitted responses to the Form 483. In August 2014, we received a warning letter (the Warning Letter) related to the Irvine inspection. We submitted a response (the Response Letter) to the Warning Letter and attended a regulatory meeting with the FDA in September 2014. At the meeting, in addition to discussing our Response Letter, the FDA raised issues beyond the scope of the Warning Letter in the areas of Good Manufacturing Practices, quality, bioresearch monitoring and labeling/promotion.. In January 2016, the FDA issued certificates to foreign governments (CFGs) for products manufactured in our Irvine, California facility, which allows us to continue to register and import products into certain countries that require CFGs. In May 2017, the FDA inspected the Irvine facility and evaluated our corrective actions in response to the Warning Letter. At the close of that inspection, the FDA did not issue a Form 483 and later issued a letter indicating that, based on the FDA's evaluation, it appeared that we had addressed the violations contained in the Warning Letter. The letter indicated that future FDA inspections and regulatory activities will further assess the adequacy and sustainability of the corrections.. In addition to the FDA, from time to time we are subject to inspections by the California Food and Drug Branch, international regulatory authorities, and other similar governmental agencies. The standards used by these regulatory authorities are complex and may differ from those used by the FDA.. Failure by us or one of our suppliers to comply with statutes and regulations administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies or failure to adequately respond to any FDA Form 483 observations, any Food and Drug Branch notices of violation or any similar reports could result in, among other things, any of the following items:. • warning letters or untitled letters issued by the FDA;. • fines, civil penalties, in rem forfeiture proceedings, injunctions, consent decrees and criminal prosecution;. • import alerts;. • unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions;. • delays in clearing or approving, or refusal to clear or approve, our products;. • withdrawal or suspension of clearance or approval of our products or those of our third-party suppliers by the FDA or other regulatory bodies;. • product recall or seizure;. • orders for physician notification or device repair, replacement or refund;. • interruption of production or inability to export to certain foreign countries; and. 39. Table of Contents. • operating restrictions.. If any of these items were to occur, it would harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to obtain regulatory authorizations in foreign jurisdictions may prevent us from marketing our products abroad.. We currently market and intend to continue to market our products internationally. Outside of the U.S., we can generally market a product only if we receive a marketing authorization and, in some cases, pricing approval, from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The regulatory registration/licensing process varies among international jurisdictions, may require additional product testing, and may differ from that required for obtaining FDA clearance. FDA clearance does not ensure new product registration/licensing by foreign regulatory authorities and we may be unable to obtain foreign regulatory registration/licensing on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, clearance by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure clearance by any other foreign regulatory authority or by the FDA. If we fail to receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in foreign jurisdictions on a timely basis, or at all, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Modifications to our marketed devices may require new regulatory clearances or premarket approvals, or may require us to cease marketing or to recall the modified devices until clearances or approvals are obtained.. We have made modifications to our devices in the past and we may make additional modifications in the future. Any modifications to an FDA-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or that could constitute a major change in its intended use would require a new 510(k) clearance or possibly a de novo review or PMA. We may not be able to obtain such clearances or approvals in a timely fashion, or at all. Delays in obtaining future clearances would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The standards for determining which modifications require a new 510(k) clearance are ambiguous, and the FDA may disagree with our conclusions. For those modifications that we conclude do not require a new 510(k), if the FDA disagrees with our conclusion and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing the modified devices, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Federal regulatory reforms may impact our ability to develop and commercialize our products and technologies.. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the clearance or approval, manufacture and marketing of medical devices. For example, in December 2016, Congress enacted the Cures Act, which contained several provisions related to the review and approval of new medical technologies. Along with other changes, the Cures Act established a statutory program for \"breakthrough\" devices, defined as a device intended to treat or diagnose a life-threatening or irreversibly debilitating disease or condition and (1) that represents a breakthrough technology, (2) that has no approved/cleared alternatives, (3) that offers significant advantages over approved/cleared alternatives or (4) the availability of the device is in the best interest of patients. The FDA will apply additional resources to help speed the approval or clearance of devices that are designated as breakthrough devices. The Cures Act also included provisions related to the \"least burdensome\" principle with respect to demonstrating substantial equivalence or reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness and expanded the number of patients that could be treated by a device approved under a Humanitarian Device Exemption, among other provisions.. In August 2017, Congress enacted the FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017 (FDARA). FDARA reauthorized the FDA to collect device user fees, including a new user fee for de novo classification requests, and contained substantive amendments to the device provisions of the FDCA. Among other changes, FDARA required that the FDA update and revise its processes for scheduling inspections of device establishments, communicating about those inspections with manufacturers and providing feedback on the manufacturer's responses to Form 483s. The statute also required that the FDA study the impact of device servicing, including third party servicers, and creates a new process for device sponsors to request classification of accessory devices as part of the PMA application for the parent device or to request a separate classification of accessory devices.. In addition, the FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether additional legislative changes will be enacted or whether FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. However, any future regulatory changes could make it more difficult for us to maintain or attain approval to develop and commercialize our products and technologies.. If our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, or malfunction in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions, including recall of our products.. 40. Table of Contents. Under the FDA medical device reporting regulations, we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which a product of ours may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which a product of ours malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. In addition, all manufacturers placing medical devices in the European Union (EU) are legally required to report any serious or potentially serious incidents involving devices produced or sold by the manufacturer to the relevant authority in those jurisdictions where any such incident occurred.. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of our commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in, for example, design, labeling or manufacture. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a recall generally must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found or they become aware of a safety issue involving a marketed product. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or by one of our distributors could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues.. We may initiate certain field actions, such as a correction or removal of our products in the future. A correction is a repair, modification, adjustment, relabeling, destruction or inspection of a device, without its physical removal from its point of use to some other location. A removal is the physical removal of a device from its point of use to some other location for repair, modification, adjustment, relabeling, destruction or inspection. If a correction or removal is initiated to reduce a health risk posed by our device, or to remedy a violation of the FDCA caused by the device that may present a risk to health, the correction or removal must be reported to the FDA. If the FDA subsequently determines that a report was required for a correction or removal of our products that we did not believe required a report, we could be subject to enforcement actions. Any recalls of our products or enforcement actions would divert managerial and financial resources and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. From time to time, we have initiated various field actions related to our products as required by applicable law and regulations, including device corrections and removals, none of which were material to our operating results. These field actions were reported to the FDA and other foreign regulatory agencies, when required, within the appropriate regulatory timeframes. Because of our dependence upon patient and physician perceptions, any negative publicity associated with these or any future voluntary recalls could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.. Promotion of our products using claims that are off-label, unsubstantiated, false or misleading could subject us to substantial penalties.. Obtaining 510(k) clearance permits us to promote our products for the uses cleared by the FDA. Use of a device outside its cleared or approved indications is known as \"off-label\" use. Physicians may use our products off-label because the FDA does not restrict or regulate a physician's choice of treatment within the practice of medicine. While we may request additional cleared indications for our current products, the FDA may deny those requests, require additional expensive clinical data to support any additional indications or impose limitations on the intended use of any cleared product as a condition of clearance. If the FDA determines that our products were promoted for off-label use or that false, misleading or inadequately substantiated promotional claims have been made by us or our OEM partners, it could request that we or our OEM partners modify those promotional materials or take regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities may take action if they consider our promotional or training materials, or other communications, to constitute promotion of an uncleared or unapproved use. Although, depending on the facts and circumstances, such promotion might be protected speech under the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, we cannot be sure that government authorities or a court would find us in violation of the law. If not successfully defended, enforcement actions related to off-label promotion could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In any such event, in addition to potential extensive fines and penalties, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of our products would be impaired. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the regulatory standards regarding off-label promotion are ambiguous, and the FDA or another regulatory agency could conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion.. In addition to promoting our products in a manner consistent with our clearances, we must have adequate substantiation for the claims we make for our products. If any of our claims are determined to be false, misleading or deceptive, our products could be considered to be misbranded under the FDCA or to violate the Federal Trade Commission Act. We could also face lawsuits from our competitors under the Lanham Act alleging that our marketing materials are false or misleading.. We may be subject to or otherwise affected by federal and state health care laws, including fraud and abuse laws and health information privacy and security laws, and could face substantial penalties if we are unable to fully comply with these laws.. 41. Table of Contents. Although we do not provide health care services or receive payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payers for our products or the procedures in which our products are used, health care regulation by federal and state governments will impact our business. Health care fraud and abuse laws potentially applicable to our operations include, but are not limited to:. • the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving any bribe, kickback or other remuneration intended to induce the purchase, order or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal health care program (such as the Medicare or Medicaid programs);. • the federal False Claims Act and other federal laws which prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent;. • the provisions of the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), which established federal crimes for knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or making false statements in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services; and. • state laws analogous to each of the above federal laws, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws that may apply to items or services reimbursed by governmental programs and non-governmental third-party payers, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy of certain patient identifiable health information (PHI).. Federal and state false claims laws prohibit anyone from presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to third-party payers that are false or fraudulent. For example, the federal Civil False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity that, among other things, knowingly and willfully presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal health care program, including Medicaid and Medicare.. Some suits filed under the Civil False Claims Act, known as \"qui tam\" actions, can be brought by a private individual, referred to as a \"whistleblower\" or \"relator,\" on behalf of the government, and such individuals may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. Such complaints are filed under seal and remain sealed until the applicable court orders otherwise. In recent years, the number of suits brought by private individuals has increased dramatically. Manufacturers, like us, can be held liable under false claims laws, even if they do not submit claims to the government, if they are found to have caused medical care providers to have submitted claims to the government for payment for a service or the use of a device that is not properly covered for government reimbursement.. A number of states also have false claims laws, and some of these laws may apply to claims for items or services reimbursed under Medicaid and/or commercial insurance. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs and imprisonment. In particular, when an entity is determined to have violated the federal Civil False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties of $10,957 to $21,916 (adjusted for inflation) for each separate false claim.. We have certain arrangements with hospitals that may be affected by health care fraud and abuse laws. For instance, under our standard customer arrangements, we provide hospitals with pulse oximetry monitoring devices at no up-front charge as part of their agreement to purchase future pulse oximetry sensor requirements from us. In addition, we occasionally provide our customers with rebates in connection with their annual purchases. While we believe that these arrangements are structured such that we are currently in compliance with applicable federal and state health care laws, one or more of these arrangements may not meet the federal Anti-Kickback Statute's safe harbor requirements, which may result in increased scrutiny by government authorities that are responsible for enforcing these laws.. The Physician Payment Sunshine Act (the Sunshine Act), which was enacted by Congress as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the Affordable Care Act) in March 2010, requires medical device companies to track and publicly report, with limited exceptions, all payments and transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals in the U.S. Implementing regulations for these tracking and reporting obligations were finalized in 2013, and companies are now required to track payments made since August 2013. If we fail to comply with the data collection and reporting obligations imposed by the Sunshine Act, we may be subject to substantial civil monetary penalties.. If we are found to have violated any of such laws or other similar governmental regulations to which we are directly or indirectly subject and, as a result, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion of our products from reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid and other federal health care programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against such action, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business.. 42. Table of Contents. Further, we are required to comply with federal and state laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of individually identifiable PHI that we may obtain or have access to in connection with the manufacture and sale of our products. We may be required to make costly system modifications to comply with the HIPAA privacy and security requirements. In addition, if we do not properly comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to the protection of health information, we could be subject to criminal or civil sanctions, the potential enforcement of which is greater as a result of the Health Information Technology of Economic and Clinical Health Act.. Numerous other federal and state laws protect the confidentiality of PHI, including state medical information privacy laws, state social security number protection laws and state and federal consumer protection laws. In some cases, more protective state privacy and security laws are not preempted by HIPAA and may be subject to interpretation by various governmental authorities and courts, resulting in potentially complex compliance issues for us and our customers.. In addition, state and federal human subject protection laws apply to our receipt of individually identifiable PHI in connection with clinical research. These laws could create liability for us if one of our research collaborators uses or discloses research subject information without authorization and in violation of applicable laws.. We may incur significant costs and potential liabilities in defending our new products and technologies in various legal and other proceedings.. Our noninvasive measurement technologies are new and not yet widely understood or accepted. These new technologies may become the subject of various legal and other proceedings. We may incur significant costs in explaining and defending our new products and technologies in these proceedings, often to non-technical audiences. As these new products are introduced into the market and become more widely adopted, we may discover flaws or errors, which could result in product recalls, fines or harm our reputation, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the outcomes of these proceedings are unpredictable and may result in significant liabilities, regardless of the merits of the claims made in the proceedings.. Legislative and regulatory changes in the health care industry could have a negative impact on our financial performance. Furthermore, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be significantly and adversely affected by health care reform legislation in the U.S. or if reform programs are adopted in our key international markets.. Changes in the health care industry in the U.S. and elsewhere could adversely affect the demand for our products as well as the way in which we conduct our business. In 2010, President Obama signed health care reform legislation into law that required most individuals to have health insurance, established new regulations on health plans, created insurance pooling mechanisms and reduced Medicare spending on services provided by hospitals and other providers. Beginning in January 2013, this legislation also imposed significant new taxes on medical device makers in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. medical device sales, as well as related compliance and reporting obligations. In December 2015, the medical device tax was temporarily suspended for two years beginning January 1, 2016 and ending December 31, 2017. On January 22, 2018, an additional two-year temporary suspension of the medical device tax was enacted beginning January 1, 2018 and ending December 31, 2019. Such tax may be reimposed on medical device makers beginning on January 1, 2020 if such suspension is not re-extended or the medical device tax is not permanently repealed.. In general, an expansion in the government's role in the U.S. health care industry may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce demand for innovative products, reduce medical procedure volumes and adversely affect our business and results of operations, possibly in a material manner. In addition, as a result of the continued focus on health care reform, there is a risk that Congress may implement changes in laws and regulations governing health care service providers, including measures to control costs or reductions in reimbursement levels, which could result in pricing pressures, have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and/or negatively impact the prices that the market is willing to accept for our current and future products. We cannot predict the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on us or what health care initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the state level. Furthermore, many private payers look to Medicare's coverage and reimbursement policies in setting their coverage policies and reimbursement amounts such that federal reforms could influence the private sector as well. Finally, many states also may attempt to reform their Medicaid programs such that either coverage for certain items or services may be narrowed or reimbursement for them could be reduced. These health care reforms may adversely affect our business.. Consistent with or in addition to Congressional or state reforms, CMS, the federal agency that administers the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could change its current policies that affect coverage and reimbursement for our products. For example, in 2007, CMS determined that certain uses of pulse oximetry monitoring are eligible for separate Medicare payment in the hospital outpatient setting when no separately payable hospital outpatient services are reported on the same date of service. However, CMS re-examines the reimbursement rates for hospital inpatient and outpatient and physician office settings each year and could either increase or decrease the reimbursement rate for procedures utilizing our products. We are unable to. 43. Table of Contents. predict when legislation or regulation that affects our business may be proposed or enacted in the future or what effect any such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Any such legislation, regulation or policies that affect the coverage and reimbursement of our current or future products, or the procedures utilizing our current or future products, could cause our sales to decrease and our revenue to decline.. Our success in international markets also may depend upon the eligibility of reimbursement for our products through government-sponsored health care payment systems and other third-party payers. Outside of the U.S., reimbursement systems vary by country. These systems are often subject to the same pressures to curb rising health care costs and control health care expenditures as those in the U.S. In addition, as economies of emerging markets develop, these countries may implement changes in their health care delivery and payment systems. If adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payers outside of the U.S. are not obtained, sales of our products outside of the U.S. may be adversely affected.. In addition, the requirements or restrictions imposed on us or our products may change, either as a result of administratively adopted policies or regulations or as a result of the enactment of new laws. Moreover, there have been recent U.S. Congressional actions to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act and Medicare, and future actions are expected. Even if the Affordable Care Act is not amended or repealed in its entirety, proposed changes impacting implementation or existing provisions of the Affordable Care Act could materially and adversely affect our financial position or operations. For example, on December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (2017 Tax Act) was signed into law.  The 2017 Tax Act, among other things, eliminated the individual mandate requiring most Americans (other than those who qualify for a hardship exemption) to carry a minimum level of health coverage, effective January 1, 2019. The repeal of the individual mandate, as well as similar laws or changes in other jurisdictions, may decrease the number of people who are insured, which could decrease overall demand for our products and adversely affect our business and future results of operations.. Although we cannot predict the ultimate content or timing of any healthcare reform legislation, potential changes resulting from any amendment, repeal or replacement of these programs, including any reduction in the future availability of healthcare insurance benefits or reimbursement rates, could adversely affect our business and future results of operations.. Our medical devices and business activities are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and other federal, state and international governmental authorities. These authorities and members of Congress have been increasing their scrutiny over the medical device industry. In recent years, the U.S. Congress, Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Department of Defense have issued subpoenas and other requests for information to medical device manufacturers, primarily related to financial arrangements with health care providers, regulatory compliance and marketing and product promotional practices. Furthermore, certain state governments have enacted legislation to increase transparency of interactions with health care providers, pursuant to which we are required by law to disclose payments and other transfers for value to health care providers licensed by certain states. We anticipate that the government will continue to scrutinize our industry closely, and any new regulations or statutory provisions could result in delays or increased costs during the periods of product development, clinical trials and regulatory review and approval, as well as increased costs to assure compliance.. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations. We may experience conflicts of interest with Cercacor with respect to business opportunities and other matters.. Prior to our initial public offering in August 2007, our stockholders owned 99% of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Cercacor and we believe that, as of December 30, 2017, a number of our stockholders, including certain of our directors and executive officers, continue to own shares of Cercacor stock. Joe Kiani, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Cercacor.. Due to the interrelated nature of Cercacor with us, conflicts of interest will arise with respect to transactions involving business dealings between us and Cercacor, potential acquisitions of businesses or products, the development and ownership of technologies and products, the sale of products, markets and other matters in which our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders may conflict with the best interests of the stockholders of Cercacor. In addition, we and Cercacor may disagree regarding the interpretation of certain terms in the Cross-Licensing Agreement. We cannot guarantee that any conflict of interest will be resolved in our favor, or that, with respect to our transactions with Cercacor, we will negotiate terms that are as favorable to us as if such transactions were with another third-party.. We will be required to assign to Cercacor and pay Cercacor for the right to use certain products and technologies we develop that relate to the monitoring of non-vital sign parameters, including improvements to Masimo SET®.. 44. Table of Contents. Under the Cross-Licensing Agreement, if we develop certain products or technologies that relate to the noninvasive monitoring of non-vital sign parameters, including improvements to Masimo SET® for the noninvasive monitoring of non-vital sign parameters, we would be required to assign these developments to Cercacor and then license the technology back from Cercacor in consideration for upfront payments and royalty obligations to Cercacor. Therefore, these products and technologies would be deemed to have been developed or improved exclusively by Cercacor. In addition, we will not be reimbursed by Cercacor for our expenses relating to the development or improvement of any such products or technologies, which expenses may be significant. As a result of these terms, we may not generate any revenue from the further development of certain products and technologies for the monitoring of non-vital sign parameters, including improvements to Masimo SET®, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the event that the Cross-Licensing Agreement is terminated for any reason, or Cercacor grants a license to rainbow® technology to a third-party, our business would be materially and adversely affected.. Cercacor owns all of the proprietary rights to certain rainbow® technology developed with our proprietary Masimo SET® for products intended to be used in the Cercacor Market, and all rights to any non-vital signs measurement for which we do not exercise an option pursuant to the Cross-Licensing Agreement. In addition, Cercacor has the right to terminate the Cross-Licensing Agreement or grant licenses covering rainbow® technology to third parties if we breach certain terms of the agreement, including any failure to meet our minimum royalty payment obligations or failure to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop or market products incorporating licensed rainbow® technology. If we lose our exclusive license to rainbow® technology, we would lose the ability to prevent others from making, using, selling or importing products using rainbow® technology in our market. As a result, we would likely be subject to increased competition within our market, and Cercacor or competitors who obtain a license to rainbow® technology from Cercacor would be able to offer related products.. We may not be able to commercialize our products incorporating licensed rainbow® technology cost-effectively or successfully.. As a result of the royalties that we must pay to Cercacor, it is generally more expensive for us to make products that incorporate licensed rainbow® technology than products that do not include licensed rainbow® technology.. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sell products incorporating licensed rainbow® technology at a price the market is willing to accept. If we cannot commercialize our products incorporating licensed rainbow® technology successfully, we may not be able to generate sufficient product revenue from these products to be profitable, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Rights provided to Cercacor in the Cross-Licensing Agreement may impede a change in control of our company.. Under the Cross-Licensing Agreement, a change in control includes the resignation or termination of Joe Kiani from his position as Chief Executive Officer of either Masimo or Cercacor. A change in control also includes other customary events, such as the sale or merger of Masimo or Cercacor to a non-affiliated third-party or the acquisition of 50% or more of the voting power of Masimo or Cercacor by a non-affiliated third-party. In the event we undergo a change in control, we are required to immediately pay a $2.5 million fee to exercise an option to license technology developed by Cercacor for use in blood glucose monitoring. Additionally, our per product royalties payable to Cercacor will become subject to specified minimums, and the minimum aggregate annual royalties for licensed rainbow® measurements payable to Cercacor related to carbon monoxide, methemoglobin, fractional arterial oxygen saturation, hemoglobin and blood glucose will increase to $15.0 million, plus up to $2.0 million for other rainbow® measurements. Also, if the surviving or acquiring entity ceases to use \"Masimo\" as a company name and trademark following a change in control, all rights to the \"Masimo\" trademark will automatically be assigned to Cercacor. This could delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over our then-current trading price. In addition, our requirement to assign all future improvements for non-vital signs to Cercacor could impede a change in control of our company.. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results in the future, we may not maintain our current levels of profitability, and changes to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules may affect how we conduct our business and our results of operations.. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations as a result of:. • predatory pricing and bundling practices by our competitors targeted to dissuade customers from using our technology;. • delays or interruptions in manufacturing and shipping of our products;. • varying demand for and market acceptance of our technologies and products;. • delayed acceptance of our new products, negatively impacting the carrying value of our inventory;. 45. Table of Contents. • design, technology or other market changes that could negatively impact the carrying value of our inventory;. • the effect of competing technological and market developments resulting in lower selling prices or significant promotional costs;. • changes in the timing of product orders and the volume of sales to our OEM partners;. • actions taken by GPOs;. • delays in hospital conversions to our products and declines in hospital patient census;. • our legal expenses, particularly those related to litigation matters;. • changes in our product or customer mix;. • movements in foreign currency exchange rates;. • market seasonality of our sales due to quarterly fluctuations in hospital and other alternative care admissions;. • our ability to renew existing long-term sensor contract commitments;. • changes in the total dollar amount of annual contract renewal activities;. • changes in the mix and, therefore, the related costs of products that we supply at no upfront costs to our customers as part of their long-term sensor commitments;. • changes in hospital and other alternative care admission levels;. • our inability to efficiently scale operations and establish processes to accommodate business growth;. • unanticipated delays or problems in the introduction of new products, including delays in obtaining clearance or approval from the FDA;. • high levels of returns and repairs; and. • changes in reimbursement rates for SpHb®, SpCO® and SpMet® parameters.. In addition, a change in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices, or the interpretation of them by the SEC or other regulatory bodies, could have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements or taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Specifically, on December 22, 2017, the 2017 Tax Act was signed into law. The 2017 Tax Act, which took effect on January 1, 2018, includes a number of changes to existing tax law impacting businesses including, among other things, a permanent reduction in the corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, a one-time transition tax on the \"deemed repatriation\" of cumulative undistributed foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017 and changes in the prospective taxation of the foreign operations of U.S. multinational companies. Moreover, Congressional leaders have recognized that the process of adopting extensive tax legislation in a short amount of time without hearings and substantial time for review is likely to have led to drafting errors, issues needing clarification and unintended consequences that will have to be reviewed in subsequent tax legislation. At this point, it is not clear when Congress will address these issues or when the Internal Revenue Service will be able to issue administrative guidance on the changes made in the 2017 Tax Act. Accordingly, given the complexity and lack of specificity related to certain provisions of the 2017 Tax Act, we made certain estimates and assumptions in connection with the calculation of our provision for income taxes for the year ended December 30, 2017 and recorded a discrete tax charge of approximately $37.0 million. In addition, as a result of this change in U.S. tax policy, we recorded a related discrete tax charge of $6.5 million as a result of our decision to repatriate up to $180.0 million of accumulated undistributed earnings from our foreign subsidiaries. We continue to evaluate the impact of the 2017 Tax Act on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Note 16 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to the impact of the 2017 Tax Act on our tax provision and tax rate.. If our operating results fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could drop suddenly and significantly. Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future revenue levels and are relatively fixed in the short term. As a result, if our revenue for a particular period was below our expectations, we would not be able to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that period. Any revenue shortfall would have a disproportionately negative effect on our operating results for the period. Due to these and other factors, you should not rely on our results for any one quarter as an indication of our future performance.. Our results of operations could be harmed if we fail to effectively manage our growth or, alternatively, our spending during economic downturns.. Our ability to offer our products and implement our business plan in evolving markets successfully requires an effective planning and management process. We must effectively manage our spending and operations to ensure our competitive position during economic downturns, and must preserve our future opportunities when the economy improves. A failure to manage our. 46. Table of Contents. spending and operations effectively could disrupt our business and harm our operating results. A growth in sales, combined with the challenges of managing geographically dispersed operations, can place a significant strain on our management systems and resources, and growth in future operations could continue to place such a strain. The failure to manage our growth effectively could disrupt our business and harm our operating results.. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies.. The methods, estimates and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations. Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. See \"Critical Accounting Estimates\" contained in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or if we are unable to attract and retain other key personnel, we may not be able to manage our operations or meet our growth objectives.. We are highly dependent on our senior management, especially Joe Kiani, our Chief Executive Officer, and other key officers. We are also heavily dependent on our engineers and field sales team, including sales representatives and clinical specialists. Additionally, from time to time, some of our key personnel may hold stock options with an exercise price that is greater than our recent closing prices, which may minimize the retention value of these options. The loss of the services of members of our key personnel or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future could prevent the implementation and completion of our objectives, including the development and introduction of our products. In general, our key personnel may terminate their employment at any time and for any reason without notice, unless the individual is a participant in our 2007 Severance Protection Plan, in which case the individual has agreed to provide us with six months' notice if such individual decides to voluntarily resign.. We are involved, and may become involved in the future, in disputes and other legal or regulatory proceedings that, if adversely decided or settled, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are, and may in the future become, party to litigation, regulatory proceedings or other disputes. In general, claims made by or against us in disputes and other legal or regulatory proceedings can be expensive and time consuming to bring or defend against, requiring us to expend significant resources and divert the efforts and attention of our management and other personnel from our business operations. These potential claims may include but are not limited to personal injury and class action lawsuits, intellectual property claims and regulatory investigations relating to the advertising and promotional claims about our products and employee claims against us based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination. Any one of these claims, even those without merit, may divert our financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit the future performance of our operations. Any adverse determination against us in these proceedings, or even the allegations contained in the claims, regardless of whether they are ultimately found to be without merit, may also result in settlements, injunctions or damages that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes to government immigration regulations may materially affect our workforce and limit our supply of qualified professionals, or increase our cost of securing workers.. We recruit professionals on a global basis and must comply with the immigration laws in the countries in which we operate, including the U.S. Some of our employees are working under Masimo-sponsored temporary work visas, including H1-B visas. The H-1B visa classification enables U.S. employers to hire certain qualified foreign workers in positions that require an education at least equal to a four-year bachelor degree in the United States in specialty occupations such as engineering. Statutory law limits the number of new H1-B temporary work permit petitions that may be approved in a fiscal year, and if we are unable to obtain H1-B visas for our employees in sufficient quantities or at a sufficient rate for a significant period of time, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.. The subject of H1-B visas has recently become a topic of political discussion, and there are indications that the H1-B visa program may be significantly overhauled. If a new or revised visa program is implemented, there could be elements of any new or revised visa program that may impact our ability to recruit, hire and retain qualified skilled personnel, which could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition.. The risks inherent in operating internationally and the risks of selling and shipping our products and purchasing our components and products internationally may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 47. Table of Contents. We derive a portion of our net sales from international operations. For the years ended December 30, 2017, December 31, 2016 and January 2, 2016, approximately 31.6%, 29.9% and 29.7%, respectively, of our product revenue was derived from our international operations. In addition, we purchase a portion of our raw materials and components on the international market. The sale and shipment of our products across international borders, as well as the purchase of materials and components from international sources, subject us to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade regulations. Compliance with such regulations is costly and we could be exposed to potentially significant penalties if we are found not to be in compliance with such regulations. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments, restrictions on certain business activities, and exclusion or debarment from government contracting. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping, manufacturing and sales activities. Any material decrease in our international sales would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In June 2016, the United Kingdom (UK) held a referendum pursuant to which voters elected to leave the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit. As a result of UK voters' election to leave the EU, the British government is expected to begin negotiating the terms of the UK's future relationship with the EU. Although the long-term effects of Brexit will depend on any agreements the UK makes to retain access to the EU markets, Brexit has created additional uncertainties that may ultimately result in new regulatory costs and challenges for medical device companies and increased restrictions on imports and exports throughout Europe, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct and expand our operations in Europe and which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, Brexit may increase the possibility that other countries may decide to leave the EU in the future.. In addition, our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include, but are not limited to:. • the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations;. • the imposition of costly and lengthy new export licensing requirements;. • a shortage of high-quality sales people and distributors;. • the loss of any key personnel that possess proprietary knowledge, or who are otherwise important to our success in certain international markets;. • changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade;. • the imposition of new trade restrictions;. • the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors;. • scrutiny of foreign tax authorities which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes being imposed on us;. • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally;. • changes in foreign currency exchange rates;. • laws and business practices favoring local companies;. • political instability and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts;. • financial and civil unrest worldwide;. • outbreaks of illnesses, pandemics or other local or global health issues such as the Zika virus;. • the inability to collect amounts paid by foreign government customers to our appointed foreign agents;. • longer payment cycles, increased credit risk and different collection remedies with respect to receivables; and. • difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights.. For example, during the year ended December 30, 2017, we recorded a net charge of approximately $10.5 million related to arbitration proceedings that we initiated against a former foreign agent that we had appointed to enable us to participate in a foreign government tender. Although the foreign government customer remitted payments for the products supplied by us to our foreign agent, such agent did not remit such funds to us in accordance with the agency agreement. (See Note 17 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements included in Part IV, Item 15(a) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on this matter.). The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from promising or making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining an advantage to secure or retain business. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored health care systems. 48. Table of Contents. around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the U.S. are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws.. We are also subject to certain other laws and regulations affecting our international operations, including laws and regulations such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA, which, among other things, provide certain beneficial duties and tariffs for qualifying imports and exports, subject to compliance with the applicable classification and other requirements. There have been recent public statements by members of the U.S. Congress, President Trump and his administration regarding their plans to make substantial changes to U.S. trade policy, including renegotiating NAFTA and imposing border taxes on imports to the U.S. Depending on the types of changes, demand for our foreign manufacturing facilities could be reduced and operating costs in our U.S. manufacturing facilities could be increased, which could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, any retaliatory actions by other countries where we operate or currently manufacture products in response to any changes in U.S. trade policy could also negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition.. Personal privacy and data security have become significant issues in the United States, Europe and in many other jurisdictions where we offer our products. The regulatory framework for privacy and security issues worldwide is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Future laws, regulations, standards and other obligations, and changes in the interpretation of existing laws, regulations, standards and other obligations could result in increased regulation, cost of compliance and limitations on data collection, use, disclosure and transfer. For example, in October 2015, the Court of Justice of the EU ruled that the US-EU Safe Harbor framework that had been in place since 2000, which allowed companies to meet certain European legal requirements for the transfer of personal data from the European Economic Area to the United States, was invalid. In July 2016, a new data transfer framework referred to as the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield was adopted, which may provide a new mechanism for companies to transfer EU personal data to the U.S. While we have adopted the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield framework for the transfer of personal data from the EU to the U.S., our means for transferring personal data from the EU may not be adopted by all of our customers and suppliers and may be subject to legal challenge or risk of enforcement actions by data protection authorities. In addition, in April 2016, the EU approved a new data protection regulation, known as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which will become effective in May 2018. The GDPR will include new operational requirements for companies that receive or process personal data of EU residents, as well as significant penalties for non-compliance. Complying with the GDPR may cause us to incur substantial operational costs or require us to change our business practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could subject us to cash and non-cash penalties, disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operations may be adversely impacted by our exposure to risks related to foreign currency exchange rates.. We market our products in certain foreign markets through our subsidiaries and other international distributors. As a result, events that result in global economic uncertainty could significantly affect our results of operations in the form of gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and potential devaluation of the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. Dollar. For example, the announcement of Brexit caused significant volatility in global economic markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to certain other foreign currencies in which we conduct business. While a majority of our sales are transacted in U.S. Dollars, some of our sales agreements with foreign customers provide for payment in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. These foreign currency revenues, when converted into U.S. Dollars, can vary depending on average exchange rates during a respective period. Similarly, certain of our foreign sales support subsidiaries transact business in their respective country's local currency, which is also their functional currency. In addition, certain production costs related to our manufacturing operations in Mexico are denominated in Mexican Pesos. As a result, expenses of these foreign subsidiaries and certain production costs, when converted into U.S. Dollars, can vary depending on average monthly exchange rates during a respective period.. We are also exposed to foreign currency gains or losses on outstanding foreign currency denominated receivables and payables. When converted to U.S. Dollars, these receivables and payables can vary depending on the monthly exchange rates at the end of the period. In addition, certain intercompany transactions may give rise to realized and unrealized foreign currency gains or losses based on the currency underlying such intercompany transactions. Accordingly, our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.. The balance sheets of our foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar are translated into U.S. Dollars at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date and the statements of operations and cash flows are translated into U.S. Dollars using the average monthly exchange rate during the period. Any foreign currency exchange gain or loss as a result of translating the balance sheets of our foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. Dollar is included in equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).. 49. Table of Contents. We currently do not hedge our foreign currency exchange rate risk. Should we decide in the future to hedge such exchange rate risk by entering into forward contracts, these contracts may not mitigate the potential adverse impact on our financial results due to the variability of timing and amount of payments under these contracts. In addition, our failure to sufficiently hedge, forecast or otherwise manage such foreign currency risks properly could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We currently manufacture our products at several locations and any disruption to, expansion of, or changes in trade programs related to our manufacturing operations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on manufacturing facilities in Mexicali and San Luis Rio Colorado, Mexico; Irvine, California; Hudson, New Hampshire; and Danderyd, Sweden. These facilities and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce our products would be difficult to replace and could require substantial time to repair. Our facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters. Earthquakes are of particular significance since some of our facilities are located in an earthquake-prone area. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, attacks from extremist or terrorist organizations, epidemics, communication failures, fire, floods and similar events. In the event that one of our facilities is affected by a natural or man-made disaster, we would be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers if we could not shift production to our other manufacturing facilities. Furthermore, our insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If the lease for any of our leased facilities is terminated, we are unable to renew any of our leases or we are otherwise forced to seek alternative facilities, or if we voluntarily expand one or more of our manufacturing operations to new locations, we may incur additional transition costs and we may experience a disruption in the supply of our products until the new facilities are available and operating. Additionally, we have occasionally experienced seasonality among our manufacturing workforce, and if we continue to experience such seasonality or other workforce shortages or otherwise have issues retaining employees at such manufacturing facilities, we may not be able to meet our customers' demands.. Our two manufacturing facilities in Mexico are authorized to operate under the Mexican Maquiladora or IMMEX program. The IMMEX program allows us to import certain items from the U.S. into Mexico duty-free, provided that such items, after processing, are exported from Mexico within a stipulated timeframe. Maquiladora status, which is renewed periodically, is subject to various restrictions and requirements, including compliance with the terms of the IMMEX program and other local regulations, which have become stricter in recent years. Failure to comply with the IMMEX program regulations could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition because we could, for example, be required to pay tax on material imported into Mexico. In addition, if the Mexican government adopts changes to the IMMEX program or if our Mexican facilities cease to qualify for Maquiladora status, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected as our manufacturing costs in Mexico would increase.. We also purchase materials and components from international sources. Any disruption in the supply of such materials, including transportation or port delays, could adversely impact our manufacturing operations. Disruptions may also occur as a result of local, regional and worldwide health risks. Such disruptions may include the inability to manufacture and distribute our products due to the direct effects of illness on individuals or due to constraints on supply and distribution that may result from either voluntary or government imposed restrictions.. Any disruption or delay at such manufacturing facilities, any expansion of our operations to additional locations, or any changes in market conditions could create operational hurdles and have an adverse impact on our ability to produce sufficient inventory of our products or may require us to incur additional expenses in order to produce sufficient inventory, depending on changes in product demand. Furthermore, if we are unable to meet the demand of our customers, our customers may cancel orders or purchase products from our competitors, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if product demand decreases, we may be unable to timely adjust our manufacturing cost structure, resulting in excess capacity, which would lower gross product margins. Similarly, if we are unable to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to record charges related to excess or obsolete inventory, which would also lower our gross margin.. Our suppliers may not supply us with a sufficient amount of materials and components or materials and components of adequate quality.. We depend on certain sole or limited source suppliers for key materials and components of our noninvasive patient monitoring solutions, and if we are unable to obtain these materials and components on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver our noninvasive patient monitoring solutions to customers. Also, we cannot guarantee that any of the materials or components that we purchase, if available at all, will be of adequate quality and at acceptable price levels. From time to time, there are industry-wide shortages of several electronic components that we use in our noninvasive blood constituent patient monitoring solutions. We may also experience price increases for materials or components, with no guarantee that such increases can be passed along to our customers.. 50. Table of Contents. We may experience delays in production of our products if we fail to identify alternate vendors for materials and components, if any parts supply is interrupted or reduced or if there is a significant increase in production costs, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we rely on third party manufacturers to supply some of our products and components, including digital signal processor chips and analog to digital converter chips.. Manufacturing problems may occur with these and other outside sources, as a supplier may fail to develop and supply products and components to us on a timely basis, or may supply us with products and components that do not meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements. If any of these problems occur, we may be unable to obtain substitute sources for these products and components on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, which could harm our ability to manufacture our own products and components profitably or on time.. If we fail to comply with the reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, or if we fail to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, our business, results of operations and financial condition and investors' confidence in us could be materially and adversely affected.. As a public company, we are required to comply with the periodic reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including preparing annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner and meet our reporting obligations in their entirety could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws and regulations of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing on favorable terms, or at all.. In addition, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act), we are required to evaluate and provide a management report on our systems of internal control over financial reporting, and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to our internal control over financial reporting. During the course of the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, we may identify areas requiring improvement and may be required to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. This could result in significant delays and costs to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. Any failure to maintain compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or any material weakness in our internal control environment could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business, negatively impact the trading price of our stock, and adversely affect investors' confidence in our company and our ability to access capital markets for financing.. Changing laws and increasingly complex corporate governance and public disclosure requirements could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act, the UK Modern Slavery Act and new regulations issued by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, have and will create additional compliance requirements for companies such as ours. To maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we have invested in, and intend to continue to invest in, reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards.. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions regarding \"conflict minerals\" (generally tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold) that are mined in the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (the DRC region), and in June 2016, the EU adopted its own regulation on conflict minerals that covers the sourcing of conflict minerals from anywhere in the world. The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act require us to undertake comprehensive due diligence to determine whether conflict minerals used in our products, including any portion of our products manufactured by third parties, financed or benefited armed groups in the DRC region. The rules also require us to file conflict mineral reports with the SEC annually. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, additional costs to comply with these rules, including costs related to determining the source of origin of conflict minerals used in our products. Given the complexity of our supply chain, we may face difficulties if our suppliers are unwilling or unable to verify the origin of all conflict minerals used in our products.. Furthermore, our ongoing compliance with these rules could affect the pricing, sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our products. We may also encounter challenges with our customers and stockholders if we are unable to certify that our products are free of conflict minerals. To maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we have invested in, and intend to continue to invest in, reasonably necessary resources to comply with such evolving standards. These investments have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities and may continue to do so in the future.. 51. Table of Contents. In addition, stockholder litigation surrounding executive compensation and disclosure of executive compensation has increased with the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act. Furthermore, in recent years, our stockholders have not approved our advisory vote on named executive officer compensation that is required to be voted on by our stockholders annually pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act. If we are involved in a lawsuit related to compensation matters or any other matters not covered by our directors' and officers' liability insurance, we may incur significant expenses in defending against such lawsuits, or be subject to significant fines or required to take significant remedial actions, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If product liability claims are brought against us, we could face substantial liability and costs.. Our products are predominantly used in patient care and expose us to product liability claims and product recalls, including, but not limited to, those that may arise from unauthorized off-label use, which is use of a device in a manner outside the indications for use cleared by the FDA, malfunctions, design flaws or manufacturing defects related to our products or the use of our products with incompatible components or systems. For example, in April 2014, an amended putative class action complaint was filed against us alleging product liability and negligence claims in connection with pulse oximeters that we modified and provided at the request of the study investigators for use in a randomized trial at the University of Alabama. In August 2015, the Court granted summary judgment in favor of Masimo, rejecting the plaintiffs' claims. The plaintiffs have appealed the Court's decision. The appellate hearing before the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals was held on December 13, 2016. On July 7, 2017, the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals (Eleventh Circuit) issued a Certification to the Supreme Court of Alabama seeking guidance on a legal question. In that Certification, the Eleventh Circuit stated that the plaintiffs failed to establish that participation in the clinical study caused any injuries, and that the negligence, negligence per se, breach of fiduciary duty, and products liability claims, which includes the claims currently alleged against us, were properly dismissed. While we believe we have good and substantial defenses to the claims, there is no guarantee that we will ultimately prevail. In addition, we cannot be certain that our product liability insurance will be sufficient to cover any or all damages or claims asserted in this case or any other product liability claims that may be brought against us in the future. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain or maintain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts to protect us against any product liability claims.. Additionally, the laws and regulations regarding product liability are constantly evolving, both through the passage of new legislation at the state and federal levels and through new interpretations of existing legislation. For example, in February 2017, the Washington Supreme Court determined that, under the Washington Product Liability Act, medical device manufacturers have a duty to warn hospitals of any potential risks posed by their products. As the legal and regulatory landscape surrounding product liability change, we may become exposed to greater liability than currently anticipated.. Any losses that we may suffer from product liability claims, and the effect that any product liability litigation may have upon the reputation and marketability of our technology and products, together with the corresponding diversion of the attention of our key employees, may subject us to significant damages and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Future acquisitions of businesses could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations if we fail to integrate the acquired businesses successfully into our existing operations or if we discover previously undisclosed liabilities.. We have acquired six businesses since our inception and we may acquire additional businesses in the future, which may be larger in magnitude than our previous acquisitions. Successful acquisitions depend upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions and to obtain any necessary financing. Future acquisitions may require equity financing, either of which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders and our earnings per share, or debt financing, which Even if we complete acquisitions, we may experience:. • payment of above-market prices for acquisitions and incurring higher than anticipated acquisition costs;. • a need to issue shares of common stock as part of the acquisition price or a need to issue stock options or other equity to newly-hired employees of target companies, resulting in dilution of ownership to our existing stockholders;. • reduced profitability as future acquisitions may not result in accretive contributions to the business over either the short-term or the long-term;. • difficulties in integrating any acquired companies, personnel, products and other assets into our existing business;. • delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired company, products or other assets;. • regulatory challenges;. • cybersecurity and compliance related issues;. • diversion of our management's time and attention from other business concerns;. • limited or no direct prior experience in new markets or countries we may enter;. 52. Table of Contents. • unanticipated issues dealing with unfamiliar suppliers, service providers or other collaborators of the acquired company;. • higher costs of integration than we anticipated;. • write-downs or impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets associated with the acquired company;. • difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to manage these acquisitions;. • negative impacts on our relationships with our employees, clients or collaborators;. • litigation or other claims in connection with the acquisition; and. • changes in the overall financial model as certain acquired companies may have a different revenue, gross profit margin or operating expense profile.. Further, our ability to benefit from future acquisitions depends on our ability to successfully conduct due diligence, negotiate acceptable acquisition terms, evaluate prospective acquisitions and bring acquired technologies and/or products to market at acceptable margins and operating expense levels. Our failure in any of these tasks could result in unforeseen liabilities associated with an acquired company, acquiring a company on unfavorable terms or selecting and eventually acquiring a suboptimal acquisition target. We may also discover deficiencies in internal controls, data adequacy and integrity, product quality, regulatory compliance and product liabilities that we did not uncover prior to our acquisition of such businesses, which could result in us becoming subject to penalties or other liabilities. If we do not achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition as rapidly as expected, or at all, investors or analysts may not perceive the same benefits of the acquisition as we do. If these risks materialize, our stock price could be materially adversely affected. Any difficulties in the integration of acquired businesses or unexpected penalties or liabilities in connection with such businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We may incur environmental and personal injury liabilities related to certain hazardous materials used in our operations.. Certain manufacturing processes for our products may involve the use, generation and disposal of certain hazardous materials and wastes, including silicone adhesives, solder and solder paste, sealants, epoxies and various solvents such as methyl ethyl ketone, acetone and isopropyl alcohol. As a result, we are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the use, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. For example, products that we sell in Europe are subject to regulation in the EU markets under the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS). RoHS prohibits companies from selling products that contain certain hazardous materials, including lead, mercury, cadmium, chromium, polybrominated biphenyls and polybrominated diphenyl ethers, in EU member states. In addition, the EU's Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals Directive also restricts substances of very high concern in products. Compliance with such regulations may be costly and, therefore, we may be forced to incur significant costs to comply with environmental regulations.. From time to time, new regulations are enacted and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will be implemented and enforced. We continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with environmental regulations as they are enacted. Future environmental laws may significantly affect our operations by, for example, requiring our manufacturing processes to be altered or requiring us to use different types of materials in manufacturing our products. Any changes to our operations may increase our manufacturing costs, detrimentally impact the performance of our products, add greater testing lead-times for product introductions or have other similar effects. In our research and manufacturing activities, we use, and our employees may be exposed to, materials that are hazardous to human health, safety or the environment. These materials and various wastes resulting from their use are stored at our facility pending ultimate use and disposal.. The risk of accidental injury to our employees or contamination from these materials cannot be eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages and any such liability could exceed our reserves. Although we maintain general liability insurance, we do not specifically insure against environmental liabilities. If an enforcement action were to occur, our reputation and our business and financial condition may be harmed, even if we were to prevail or settle the action on terms favorable to us.. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security lapse of that technology, including any cybersecurity incidents, could harm our ability to operate our business effectively.. Increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted cybersecurity attacks pose a risk to the security of Masimo's and our customers', partners', suppliers' and third-party service providers' products, systems and networks, and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of any underlying information and data. Our ability to effectively manage and maintain our internal business information, and to ship products to customers and invoice them on a timely basis, depends significantly on our enterprise resource planning system and other information systems. Portions of our information technology systems may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with ongoing. 53. Table of Contents. systems implementation work. In addition, interfaces between our products and our customers' computer network could provide additional opportunities for cybersecurity attacks on us and our customers. The techniques used to attack computer systems are sophisticated, change frequently and may originate from less regulated and remote areas of the world. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, misappropriation of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. As a result, there can be no assurance that our protective measures will prevent or detect security breaches that could have a significant impact on our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. The failure of these systems to operate or integrate effectively with other internal, customer, supplier or third-party service provider systems and to protect the underlying information technology system and data integrity, including from cyber-attacks, intrusions or other breaches or unauthorized access of these systems, or any failure by us to remediate any such attacks or breaches, may also result in damage to our reputation or competitiveness, delays in product fulfillment and reduced efficiency of our operations, and could require significant capital investments to remediate any such failure, problem or breach, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions.. Many of the countries in which we operate, including the U.S. and several of the members of the EU, have experienced and continue to experience uncertain economic conditions resulting from global as well as local factors, such as Brexit. In addition, continuing strength and growth in the U.S. economy is raising the probability of inflationary pressures and future interest rate hikes that have not been experienced in the U.S. for more than a decade. Our business or financial results may be adversely impacted by these uncertain economic conditions, including: adverse changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, tax laws or tax rates; inflation; contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace due to legislation or other economic conditions, which may potentially impair our ability to access the capital markets on terms acceptable to us or at all; and the effects of government initiatives to manage economic conditions.. In addition, we cannot predict how future economic conditions will affect our critical customers, suppliers and distributors and any negative impact on our critical customers, suppliers or distributors may also have an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition.. We may experience conflicts of interest with respect our Chief Executive Officer's role in the Patient Safety Movement Foundation.. Joe Kiani, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, founded the Patient Safety Movement Foundation in 2013 with the aim of eliminating the third leading cause of death in the U.S., preventable deaths due to medical errors. While reception to his work in this area has been high and great progress is being made, conflicts of interest issues may arise between our business and customers and the objectives of the Patient Safety Movement Foundation. For example, one of the objectives of the Patient Safety Movement Foundation is to request that hospitals implement Actionable Patient Safety Solutions to overcome some of the leading patient safety challenges that hospitals currently face. Some hospitals and other healthcare providers may disagree with the Patient Safety Movement Foundation's recommendations or may determine that these steps and other actions encouraged by the Patient Safety Movement Foundation may not be practicable or may be too costly or burdensome to implement. Although Mr. Kiani's role in the Patient Safety Movement Foundation is separate from his role as our President and Chief Executive Officer, hospitals and healthcare providers that do not agree with the actions or recommendations of the Patient Safety Movement Foundation may nonetheless disfavor Masimo products, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Related to Our Stock. Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our stock could suffer a decline in value.. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is often unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our stock. During the year ended December 30, 2017, our closing stock price ranged from $67.40 to $104.46 per share. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them due to fluctuations in the market price of our stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects and other factors.. In addition to the other risk factors previously discussed above, there are many other factors that we may not be able to control that could have a significant effect on our stock price. These include, but are not limited to:. • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects;. • our announcements or our competitors' announcements of new products;. • the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;. 54. Table of Contents. • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. • new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business;. • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. • changes in our growth rates or our competitors' growth rates;. • developments regarding our patents or proprietary rights or those of our competitors;. • ongoing legal proceedings;. • our inability to raise additional capital as needed;. • concerns or allegations as to the safety or efficacy of our products;. • changes in financial markets or general economic conditions, including the effects of recession or slow economic growth in the U.S. and abroad;. • sales of stock by us or members of our management team, our Board of Directors (Board) or certain institutional stockholders; and. • changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally.. Concentration of ownership among our existing directors, executive officers and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions.. As of December 30, 2017, our current directors and executive officers and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 11.9% of our outstanding stock. Subject to any fiduciary duties owed to our other stockholders under Delaware law, these stockholders may be able to exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, and will have some control over our management and policies. Some of these persons or entities may have interests that are different from yours. For example, these stockholders may support proposals and actions with which you may disagree or which are not in your best interests. The concentration of ownership could delay or prevent a change in control of us, or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce the price of our stock. In addition, these stockholders could use their voting influence to maintain our existing management and directors in office or support or reject other management and Board proposals that are subject to stockholder approval, such as amendments to our employee stock plans and approvals of significant financing transactions.. Our investors could experience substantial dilution of their investments as a result of subsequent exercises of our outstanding options, vesting of outstanding restricted stock units (RSUs) and performance stock units (PSUs), or the grant of future equity awards by us.. As of December 30, 2017, approximately 13.8 million shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance under our equity incentive plans, of which approximately 7.0 million shares were subject to options outstanding at such date at a weighted-average exercise price of $36.26 per share, approximately 2.7 million shares were subject to outstanding RSUs, approximately 0.2 million shares were subject to outstanding PSUs and approximately 3.9 million shares were available for future awards under our 2017 Equity Incentive Plan. Over the past 12 months, we have experienced higher rates of stock option exercises compared to many earlier periods, and this trend may continue. To the extent outstanding options are exercised or outstanding RSUs or PSUs vest, our existing stockholders may incur dilution. We rely on equity awards to motivate current employees and to attract new employees. The grant of future equity awards by us to our employees and other service providers may further dilute our stockholders.. Future resales of our stock, including those by our insiders and a few investment funds, may cause our stock price to decline.. A significant portion of our outstanding shares are held by our directors, our executive officers and a few investment funds. Resales by these stockholders of a substantial number of such shares, announcements of any proposed resale of substantial amounts of our stock or the perception that substantial resales may be made, could significantly reduce the market price of our stock. Some of our directors and executive officers have entered into Rule 10b5-1 trading plans pursuant to which they have arranged to sell shares of our stock from time to time in the future. Generally, these sales require public filings. Actual or potential sales by these insiders, including those under a pre-arranged Rule 10b5-1 trading plan, could be interpreted by the market as an indication that the insider has lost confidence in our stock and reduce the market price of our stock.. We have registered and expect to continue to register shares reserved under our equity plans pursuant to Registration Statements on Form S-8. All shares issued pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-8 can be freely sold in the public market upon. 55. Table of Contents. issuance, subject to restrictions on our affiliates under Rule 144. If a large number of these shares are sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our stock.. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, prevent attempts to replace or remove current management and reduce the market price of our stock.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board to issue up to 5.0 million shares of \"blank check\" preferred stock. As a result, without further stockholder approval, our Board has the authority to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock, including pursuant to a stockholder rights plan. With these rights, preferred stockholders could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for a staggered board of directors, whereby directors serve for three year terms, with one-third of the directors coming up for reelection each year. A staggered Board will make it more difficult for a third-party to obtain control of our Board through a proxy contest, which may be a necessary step in an acquisition of us that is not favored by our Board.. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an \"interested stockholder,\" we may not enter into a \"business combination\" with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third-party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change in control of us. For purposes of these provisions, an \"interested stockholder\" generally means someone owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.. We may elect not to declare cash dividends on our stock, may elect to only pay dividends on an infrequent or irregular basis, or may elect not to make any additional stock repurchases. As a result, any return on your investment may be limited to the value of our stock. In addition, the payment of any future dividends or the repurchase of our stock might limit our ability to pursue other growth opportunities.. Our Board may from time to time declare, and we may pay, dividends on our outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law. However, we may elect to retain all future earnings for the operation and expansion of our business, rather than paying cash dividends on our stock. Any payment of cash dividends on our stock will be at the discretion of our Board and will depend upon our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, business prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our Board. In the event our Board declares any dividends, there is no assurance with respect to the amount, timing or frequency of any such dividends.. In September 2015, our Board authorized a stock repurchase program, whereby we may purchase up to 5.0 million shares of our common stock over a period of up to three years. As of December 30, 2017, approximately 2.1 million shares remained available for repurchase under this program. Any repurchase of our common stock will be at the discretion of a committee comprised of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and will depend on several factors, including, but not limited to, results of operations, capital requirements, financial conditions, available capital from operations or other sources and the market price of our common stock. Therefore, there is no assurance with respect to the amount, price or timing of any such repurchases. We may elect to retain all future earnings for the operation and expansion of our business, rather than repurchasing additional outstanding shares. In the event we pay dividends, or make any stock repurchases in the future, our ability to finance any material expansion of our business, including through acquisitions, investments or increased capital spending, or to fund our operations, may be limited. In addition, any repurchases we may make in the future may not prove to be at optimal prices. Our Board may modify or amend our stock repurchase program at any time at its discretion without stockholder approval."
