[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors should be considered with the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  As we operate in a continuously changing environment, other risk factors may emerge which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow.. Risk Factors Related to Our Business. Unsatisfactory safety performance may subject us to penalties, affect customer relationships, result in higher operating costs, negatively impact employee morale and result in higher employee turnover.. Our projects are conducted at a variety of sites including construction sites and industrial facilities.  With each location, hazards are part of the day to day exposures that we must manage on a continuous basis to ensure our employees return home from work the same way they arrived.  We understand that everyone plays a role with safety and everyone can make a difference with their active participation.  With our proactive approach, our strategy is to identify the exposures and correct them before they result in an incident whether that involves an injury, damage or destruction of property, plant and equipment or an environmental impact.  We are intensely focused on maintaining a strong safety culture and strive for zero incidents.. Although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions to adequately train and equip our employees, we have experienced serious accidents, including fatalities, in the past and may experience additional accidents in the future.  Serious accidents may subject us to penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution.  Claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in costs and liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  Poor safety performance could also jeopardize our relationships with our customers and increase our insurance premiums.. Our profitability could be negatively impacted if we are not able to maintain appropriate utilization of our workforce.. The extent to which we utilize our workforce affects our profitability.  If we under utilize our workforce, our project gross margins and overall profitability suffer in the short-term.  If we over utilize our workforce, we may negatively impact safety, employee satisfaction and project execution, which could result in a decline in future project awards.  The utilization of our workforce is impacted by numerous factors including:. • our estimate of the headcount requirements for various operating units based upon our forecast of the demand for our products and services;. • our ability to maintain our talent base and manage attrition;. • productivity;. • our ability to schedule our portfolio of projects to efficiently utilize our employees and minimize downtime between project assignments; and. • our need to invest time and resources into functions such as training, business development, employee recruiting, and sales that are not chargeable to customer projects.. An inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, and in particular, engineers, project managers, and skilled craft workers, could impact our ability to perform on our contracts, which could harm our business and impair our future revenues and profitability.. Our ability to attract and retain qualified engineers, project managers, skilled craftsmen and other experienced professionals in accordance with our needs is an important factor in our ability to maintain profitability and grow our business.  The market for these professionals is competitive, particularly during periods of economic growth when the supply is limited.  We cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to retain or attract qualified personnel when needed.  Therefore, when we anticipate or experience growing demand for our services, we may incur additional cost to maintain a professional staff in excess of our current contract needs in an effort to have sufficient qualified personnel available to address this anticipated demand.  If we do incur additional compensation and benefit costs, our customer contracts may not allow us to pass through these costs.. Competent and experienced engineers, project managers, and craft workers are especially critical to the profitable performance of our contracts, particularly on our fixed-price contracts where superior design and execution of the project can result in profits greater than originally estimated or where inferior design and project execution can reduce or eliminate estimated profits or even result in a loss.. 8. Table of Contents. Our project managers are involved in most aspects of contracting and contract execution including:. • supervising the bidding process, including providing estimates of significant cost components, such as material and equipment needs, and the size, productivity and composition of the workforce;. • negotiating contracts;. • supervising project performance, including performance by our employees, subcontractors and other third-party suppliers and vendors;. • estimating costs for completion of contracts that is used to estimate amounts that can be reported as revenues and earnings on the contract under the percentage-of-completion method of accounting;. • negotiating requests for change orders and the final terms of approved change orders; and. • determining and documenting claims by us for increased costs incurred due to the failure of customers, subcontractors and other third-party suppliers of equipment and materials to perform on a timely basis and in accordance with contract terms.. Our results of operations depend upon the award of new contracts and the timing of those awards.. Our revenues are derived primarily from contracts awarded on a project-by-project basis.  Generally, it is difficult to predict whether and when we will be awarded a new contract due to lengthy and complex bidding and selection processes, changes in existing or forecasted market conditions, customers' access to financing, governmental regulations, permitting and environmental matters.  Because our revenues are derived from contract awards, our results of operations and cash flows can fluctuate materially from period to period.. The uncertainty associated with the timing of contract awards may reduce our short-term profitability as we balance our current capacity with expectations of future contract awards.  If an expected contract award is delayed or not received, we could incur costs to maintain an idle workforce that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  Alternatively, we may decide that our long-term interests are best served by reducing our workforce and incurring increased costs associated with severance and termination benefits, which also could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period incurred.  Reducing our workforce could also impact our results of operations if we are unable to adequately staff projects that are awarded subsequent to a workforce reduction.. Demand for our products and services is cyclical and is vulnerable to the level of capital and maintenance spending of our customers and to downturns in the industries and markets we serve, as well as conditions in the general economy.. The demand for our products and services depends upon the existence of construction and maintenance projects primarily in the midstream and downstream petroleum, power and other heavy industries in the United States and Canada.  Therefore, it is likely that our business will continue to be cyclical in nature and vulnerable to general downturns in the United States, Canadian and world economies and changes in commodity prices, which could adversely affect the demand for our products and services.. The availability of engineering and construction projects is dependent upon economic conditions in the oil, gas, iron and steel and power industries, specifically, the level of capital expenditures on energy infrastructure.  A prolonged period of relatively low commodity prices in North America has had an adverse impact on the level of capital expenditures of our customers and/or their ability to finance these expenditures.  Our failure to obtain projects, the delay of project awards, the cancellation of projects or delays in the execution of contracts has resulted and may continue to result in under-utilization of our resources, which could adversely impact our revenue, margins, operating results and cash flow.  There are numerous factors beyond our control that influence the level of maintenance and capital expenditures of our customers, including:. • current or projected commodity prices, including oil, gas, power, steel and mineral prices;. • refining margins;. • the demand for oil, gas and electricity;. • the ability of oil, gas and power companies to generate, access and deploy capital;. • exploration, production and transportation costs;. • interest rates;. 9. Table of Contents. • tax incentives, including those for alternative energy projects;. • regulatory restraints on the rates that power companies may charge their customers; and. • local, national and international political and economic conditions.. Our revenue and profitability may be adversely affected by a reduced level of activity in the hydrocarbon industry.. In recent years, demand from the worldwide hydrocarbon industry has been a significant generator of our revenue.  Numerous factors influence capital expenditure decisions in the hydrocarbon industry, including, but not limited to, the following:. • current and projected oil and gas prices;. • exploration, extraction, production and transportation costs;. • refining margins;. • the discovery rate, size and location of new oil and gas reserves;. • technological challenges and advances;. • ability to export hydrocarbon products;. • demand for hydrocarbon production; and. • changing taxes, price controls, and laws and regulations.. The aforementioned factors are beyond our control and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly in the Storage Solutions and Oil Gas & Chemical segments, and on our financial position or cash flow.. The operations of our Storage Solutions segment are influenced by the overall forward market for crude oil, and certain market conditions may adversely affect that segment's financial and operating results.. The results of our Storage Solutions segment may be influenced by the overall forward market for crude oil.  A \"contango\" market (meaning that the price of crude oil for future delivery is higher than the current price) is associated with greater demand for crude oil storage capacity, because a party can simultaneously purchase crude oil at current prices for storage and sell at higher prices for future delivery.  A \"backwardated\" market (meaning that the price of crude oil for future delivery is lower than the current price) is associated with lower demand for crude oil storage capacity, because a party can capture a premium for prompt delivery of crude oil rather than storing it for future sale.  A prolonged backwardated market or other adverse market conditions could have an adverse impact on demand for new construction in our Storage Solutions segment.  Finally, higher absolute levels of crude oil prices increase the costs of financing and insuring crude oil in storage, which negatively affects storage economics.  As a result, the overall forward market for crude oil may have an adverse effect on our Storage Solution segment's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The terms of our contracts could expose us to unforeseen costs and costs not within our control, which may not be recoverable and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. A significant amount of our work is performed under fixed price contracts.  Under fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform the contract for a fixed-price and, as a result, can improve our expected profit by superior execution, productivity, workplace safety and other factors resulting in cost savings.  However, we could incur cost overruns above the approved contract price, which may not be recoverable.  Under certain incentive fixed-price contracts, we may agree to share with a customer a portion of any savings we generate while the customer agrees to bear a portion of any increased costs we may incur up to a negotiated ceiling.  To the extent costs exceed the negotiated ceiling price, we may be required to absorb some or all of the cost overruns.. Fixed-price contract prices are established based largely upon estimates and assumptions relating to project scope and specifications, personnel and productivity, material needs, and site conditions.  These estimates and assumptions may prove inaccurate or conditions may change due to factors out of our control, resulting in cost overruns, which we may be required to absorb and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, our profits from these contracts could decrease or we could experience losses if we incur difficulties in performing the contracts or are unable to secure fixed-pricing commitments from our manufacturers, suppliers and subcontractors at the time we enter into fixed-price contracts with our customers.. 10. Table of Contents. Under cost-plus and time-and-material contracts, we perform our services in return for payment of our agreed upon reimbursable costs plus a profit.  The profit component is typically expressed in the contract either as a percentage of the reimbursable costs we actually incur or is factored into the rates we charge for labor or for the cost of equipment and materials, if any, we are required to provide.  Our profit could be negatively impacted if our actual costs exceed the estimated costs utilized to establish the billing rates included in the contracts.. We may incur significant costs in providing services in excess of original project scope without having an approved change order.. After commencement of a contract, we may perform, without the benefit of an approved change order from the customer, additional services requested by the customer that were not contemplated in our contract price for various reasons, including customer changes or incomplete or inaccurate engineering, changes in project specifications and other similar information provided to us by the customer.  Our construction contracts generally require the customer to compensate us for additional work or expenses incurred under these circumstances.. A failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could require us to record in the current period an adjustment to revenue and profit recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method.  Any such adjustments, if substantial, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly for the period in which such adjustments are made.  We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, approved change orders in an amount adequate to compensate us for our additional work or expenses.. Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting for fixed-price contracts and our reporting of profits for cost-plus contracts prior to contract completion could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits.. Our revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting.  Under percentage-of-completion accounting, contract revenues and earnings are recognized ratably over the contract term based on the proportion of actual costs incurred to total estimated costs.  In addition, some contracts contain penalty provisions for failure to achieve certain milestones, schedules or performance standards.  We review our estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability on a monthly basis.  As a result, we may adjust our estimates on one or more occasions as a result of changes in cost estimates, change orders to the original contract, or claims against the customer for increased costs incurred by us due to customer-induced delays and other factors.. If estimates of costs to complete fixed price contracts indicate a loss, a provision is made through a contract write-down for the total loss anticipated in the period the loss is determined.  Contract profit estimates are also adjusted, on a percentage of completion basis, in the fiscal period in which it is determined that an adjustment is required.  No restatements are made to prior periods.  Further, a number of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives and penalties that impact the earnings we realize from our contracts, and adjustments related to these incentives and penalties are recorded on a percentage of completion basis in the period when estimable and probable.. As a result of the requirements of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, the possibility exists that we could have estimated and reported a profit on a contract over several prior periods and later determine, as a result of additional information, that all or a portion of such previously estimated and reported profits were overstated.  If this occurs, the full aggregate amount of the overstatement will be reported for the period in which such change in estimate occurs.. 11. Table of Contents. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements.. To prepare financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, management is required to make estimates and assumptions, as of the date of the financial statements, which affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities.  Areas requiring significant estimation by our management include:. • contract costs and application of percentage-of-completion accounting;. • provisions for uncollectible receivables from customers for invoiced amounts;. • the amount and collectibility of unapproved change orders and claims against customers;. • provisions for income taxes and related valuation allowances;. • recoverability of goodwill and intangible assets;. • valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with business combinations; and. • accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation and insurance reserves.. Our actual results could materially differ from these estimates.. The steel industry is cyclical and sensitive to general economic conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.. A significant percentage of our Industrial segment's revenues are derived from the steel industry.  Demand for steel products is cyclical in nature and sensitive to general economic conditions.  The timing and magnitude of the cycles in the markets in which our customers' products are used, including automobiles and construction, are difficult to predict.  The cyclical nature of our customers' operations tends to reflect and be amplified by changes in economic conditions, both domestically and internationally, supply/demand imbalances, foreign currency exchange fluctuations, and foreign and domestic import tariffs on steel.  Economic downturns or a prolonged period of slow growth in the U.S. and foreign markets or any of the industries in which our steel industry customers operate could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Domestic and Foreign trade tariffs could have a material adverse effect on our customers' businesses and could raise the price and reduce the availability of raw materials to us, which could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition.. Domestic and foreign trade tariffs could have a material adverse impact on our customers' businesses, which could cause our customers to reduce spending on capital and maintenance projects.  This reduction in spending could lead to fewer project awards and/or more competition.  Fewer project awards and more competition could reduce our revenues and gross margins.. In addition, domestic and foreign trade tariffs could raise the price and reduce the availability of raw materials such as steel plate and steel pipe, which are key materials used by the Company.  Supplies of these materials are available throughout the United States and globally from numerous sources.  We anticipate that adequate amounts of these materials will be available in the foreseeable future.  However, if trade tariffs should significantly impact the price and availability of these materials, we could experience lower gross margins, operational inefficiencies and project delays.. We are exposed to credit risk from customers.  If we experience delays and/or defaults in customer payments, we could suffer liquidity problems or we could be unable to recover amounts owed to us.. Under the terms of our contracts, at times we commit resources to customer projects prior to receiving payments from customers in amounts sufficient to cover expenditures on these projects as they are incurred.  Many of our fixed-price or cost-plus contracts require us to satisfy specified progress milestones or performance standards in order to receive a payment.  Under these types of arrangements, we may incur significant costs for labor, equipment and supplies prior to receipt of payment.  If the customer fails or refuses to pay us for any reason, there is no assurance we will be able to collect amounts due to us for costs previously incurred.  In some cases, we may find it necessary to terminate subcontracts with suppliers engaged by us to assist in performing a contract, and we may incur costs or penalties for canceling our commitments to them.  Delays in customer payments require an investment in working capital.  If we are unable to collect amounts owed to us under our contracts, we may be required to record a charge against previously recognized earnings related to the project, and our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. 12. Table of Contents. Acquisitions may result in significant transaction expenses, and unidentified liabilities and risks associated with entering new markets.  We may also be unable to profitably integrate and operate these businesses.. We may lack sufficient management, financial and other resources to successfully integrate future acquisitions, including acquisitions in markets where we have not previously operated.  Any future acquisitions may result in significant transaction expenses, unexpected liabilities and other risks in addition to the integration and consolidation risks.. If we make any future acquisitions, we will likely assume liabilities of the acquired business or have exposure to contingent liabilities that may not be adequately covered by insurance or indemnification, if any, from the former owners of the acquired business.  These potential liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may not be able to successfully integrate our acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer.. We may not be able to successfully complete our ongoing integration of the operations, personnel and technology from our recent acquisitions.  Because of their size and complexity, if we fail to complete our integration efforts successfully, we may experience interruptions in our business activities, a decrease in the quality of our services, a deterioration in our employee and customer relationships, and harm to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Our recent integration activities have required significant attention from management, which potentially decreases the time that management may devote to serve existing customers, attract new customers and develop new services and strategies.  We may also experience difficulties in combining corporate cultures, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees.  The continuing integration efforts may also impose substantial demands on our operations or other projects.  We will have to actively strive to demonstrate to our existing customers that these integrations have not resulted in adverse changes in our standards or business focus.  Our recent acquisitions have involved a significant capital commitment, and the return that we achieve on any capital invested may be less than the return achieved on our other projects or investments.  There will be challenges in consolidating and rationalizing information technology platforms and administrative infrastructures.  In addition, any delays or increased costs of integrating the acquired companies could adversely affect our operations, financial results and liquidity.. We may not realize the growth opportunities, operating margins and synergies that are anticipated from acquisitions.. The benefits we expect to achieve as a result of an acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities, operating margins and synergies.  Our success in realizing these growth opportunities, operating margins and synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of the acquired business and operations with our existing business and operations.  Even if we are able to integrate existing and acquired businesses successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities, operating margins and synergies we currently expect within the anticipated time frame or at all.  Accordingly, the benefits from an acquisition may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the companies, which could cause our revenue assumptions and operating margin to be inaccurate.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and/or acquisitions, and we may not be able to do so on favorable terms or at all, which would impair our ability to operate our business or achieve our strategic plan.. To the extent that cash flow from operations, together with available borrowings under our senior secured revolving credit facility, are insufficient to make future investments, acquisitions or provide needed working capital, we may require additional financing from other sources.  Our ability to obtain such additional financing in the future will depend in part upon prevailing capital market conditions, as well as conditions in our business and our operating results; and those factors may affect our efforts to arrange additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us.  If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to make future investments, take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities, or respond to competitive challenges.. We face substantial competition in each of our business segments, which may have a material adverse effect on our business.. We face competition in all areas of our business from regional, national and international competitors.  Our competitors range from small, family-owned businesses to well-established, well-financed entities, both privately and publicly held, including many large engineering and construction companies and specialty contractors.  We compete primarily on the basis of price, customer satisfaction, safety performance and programs, quality of our products and services, and schedule.  As a result, an increase in the level of competition in one or more markets may result in lower operating margins than we have recently experienced.. 13. Table of Contents. Our backlog is subject to unexpected fluctuations, adjustments and cancellations and does not include the full value of our long-term maintenance contracts, and therefore, may not be a reliable indicator of our future earnings.. Backlog may not be a reliable indicator of our future performance.  We cannot guarantee that the revenue projected in our backlog will be realized or profitable.  Projects may remain in our backlog for an extended period of time.  In addition, project cancellations or scope adjustments may occur from time to time with respect to contracts included in our backlog that could reduce the dollar amount of our backlog and the revenue and profits that we actually earn.  Many of our contracts have termination rights.  Therefore, project adjustments may occur from time to time to contracts in our backlog.. The loss of one or more of our significant customers could adversely affect us.. One or more customers have in the past and may in the future contribute a material portion of our revenues in any one year.  Because these significant customers generally contract with us for specific projects or for specific periods of time, we may lose these customers from year to year as the projects or maintenance contracts are completed.  The loss of business from any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. Future events, including those associated with our strategic plan, could negatively affect our liquidity position.. We can provide no assurance that we will have sufficient earnings from operations or the credit capacity to meet all of our future cash needs should we encounter significant working capital requirements or incur significant acquisition costs.  Insufficient earnings from operations, significant working capital requirements, and contract disputes have in the past, and could in the future, reduce availability under our senior secured revolving credit facility.. Our business may be affected by difficult work sites and environments, which may adversely affect our overall business.. We perform our work under a variety of conditions, including, but not limited to, difficult terrain, difficult site conditions and busy urban centers where delivery of materials and availability of labor may be impacted.  Performing work under these conditions can slow our progress, potentially causing us to incur contractual liability to our customers.  These difficult conditions may also cause us to incur additional, unanticipated costs that we might not be able to pass on to our customers.. We are susceptible to adverse weather conditions, which may harm our business and financial results.. Our business may be adversely affected by severe weather in areas where we have significant operations.  Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include:. • curtailment of services;. • suspension of operations;. • inability to meet performance schedules in accordance with contracts and potential liability for liquidated damages;. • injuries or fatalities;. • weather related damage to our facilities;. • disruption of information systems;. • inability to receive machinery, equipment and materials at jobsites; and. • loss of productivity.. Our senior secured revolving credit facility imposes restrictions that may limit business alternatives.. Our senior secured revolving credit facility contains covenants that restrict or limit our ability to incur additional debt, acquire or dispose of assets, repurchase equity, or make certain distributions, including dividends.  In addition, our senior secured revolving credit facility requires that we comply with a number of financial covenants.  These covenants and restrictions may impact our ability to effectively execute operating and strategic plans and our operating performance may not be sufficient to comply with the required covenants.. 14. Table of Contents. Our failure to comply with one or more of the covenants in our senior secured revolving credit facility could result in an event of default.  We can provide no assurance that a default could be remedied, or that our creditors would grant a waiver or amend the terms of the senior secured revolving credit facility.  If an event of default occurs, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the facility to be immediately due and payable, terminate all commitments, refuse to extend further credit, and require us to provide cash to collateralize any outstanding letters of credit.  If an event of default occurs and the lenders under the senior secured revolving credit facility accelerate the maturity of any loans or other debt outstanding, we may not have sufficient liquidity to repay amounts outstanding under the existing agreement.. We contribute to multiemployer plans that could result in liabilities to us if those plans are terminated or if we withdraw from those plans.. We contribute to several multiemployer pension plans for employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.  These plans are not administered by us and contributions are determined in accordance with provisions of negotiated labor contracts.  The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Multiemployer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980, imposes certain liabilities upon employers who are contributors to a multiemployer plan in the event of the employer's withdrawal from, or upon termination of, such plan.  If we terminate or withdraw from a multiemployer pension plan, we could be required to make significant cash contributions to fund that plan's unfunded vested benefit, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations; however, we are not currently able to determine the net assets and actuarial present value of the multiemployer pension plans' unfunded vested benefits allocable to us, if any, and we are not presently aware of the amounts, if any, for which we may be contingently liable if we were to withdraw from any of these plans.  In addition, if the funding level of any of these multiemployer plans becomes classified as \"critical status\" under the Pension Protection Act of 2006, we could be required to make significant additional contributions to those plans.. Earnings for future periods may be affected by impairment charges.. Because we have grown in part through acquisitions, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets.  We perform annual goodwill impairment reviews in the fourth quarter of every fiscal year.  In addition, we perform an impairment review whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill or an intangible or fixed asset may not be recoverable.  Current market conditions have resulted in an impairment of goodwill related to our Electrical Infrastructure segment and have led to narrow differences between the fair values and carrying amounts of our other reporting units, which has increased the likelihood of additional impairments.  If market conditions further deteriorate, we may determine that a significant impairment has occurred, which could require us to write off a portion of our assets and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.  As of June 30, 2018, the Company had $22.8 million of amortizing intangible assets and $96.2 million of non-amortizing goodwill representing 4.1% and 17.2% of the Company's total assets, respectively.. We are involved, and are likely to continue to be involved in legal proceedings, which will increase our costs and, if adversely determined, could have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. We are currently a defendant in legal proceedings arising from the operation of our business, and it is reasonable to expect that we would be named in future actions.  Many of the actions against us arise out of the normal course of performing services on project sites, and include workers' compensation claims, personal injury claims and contract disputes with our customers.  From time to time, we are also named as a defendant for actions involving the violation of federal and state labor laws related to employment practices, wages and benefits.  We may also be a plaintiff in legal proceedings against customers seeking to recover payment of contractual amounts due to us as well as claims for increased costs incurred by us resulting from, among other things, services performed by us at the request of a customer that are in excess of original project scope that are later disputed by the customer and customer-caused delays in our contract performance.. We maintain insurance against operating hazards in amounts that we believe are customary in our industry.  However, our insurance policies include deductibles and certain coverage exclusions, so we cannot provide assurance that we are adequately insured against all of the risks associated with the conduct of our business.  A successful claim brought against us in excess of, or outside of, our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.. Litigation, regardless of its outcome, is expensive, typically diverts the efforts of our management away from operations for varying periods of time, and can disrupt or otherwise adversely impact our relationships with current or potential customers, subcontractors and suppliers.  Payment and claim disputes with customers may also cause us to incur increased interest costs resulting from incurring indebtedness under our revolving line of credit or receiving less interest income resulting from fewer funds invested due to the failure to receive payment for disputed claims and accounts.. 15. Table of Contents. Our projects expose us to potential professional liability, product liability, pollution liability, warranty and other claims, which could be expensive, damage our reputation and harm our business.  We may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate insurance to cover these claims.. We perform construction and maintenance services at large industrial facilities where accidents or system failures can be disastrous and costly.  Any catastrophic occurrence in excess of our insurance limits at locations engineered or constructed by us or where our products are installed or services performed could result in significant professional liability, product liability, warranty and other claims against us by our customers, including claims for cost overruns and the failure of the project to meet contractually specified milestones or performance standards.  Further, the rendering of our services on these projects could expose us to risks and claims by third parties and governmental agencies for personal injuries, property damage and environmental matters, among others.  Any claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in substantial costs, divert management's attention and create negative publicity, particularly for claims relating to environmental matters where the amount of the claim could be extremely large.  We may not be able to or may choose not to obtain or maintain insurance coverage for the types of claims described above.  If we are unable to obtain insurance at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against the claims described above, we will be exposed to significant liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Employee, subcontractor or partner misconduct or our overall failure to comply with laws or regulations could harm our reputation, damage our relationships with customers, reduce our revenues and profits, and subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions.. Misconduct, fraud, non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one of our employees, subcontractors or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation.  Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with safety standards, laws and regulations, customer requirements, regulations pertaining to the internal controls over financial reporting, environmental laws and any other applicable laws or regulations.  The precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective, since our internal controls are subject to inherent limitations, including human error, the possibility that controls could be circumvented or become inadequate because of changed conditions, and fraud.. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, harm our reputation, damage our relationships with customers, reduce our revenues and profits and subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions.. Environmental factors and changes in laws and regulations could increase our costs and liabilities.. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including those concerning emissions into the air; discharges into waterways; generation, storage, handling, treatment and disposal of hazardous material and wastes; and health and safety.. Our projects often involve highly regulated materials, including hazardous wastes.  Environmental laws and regulations generally impose limitations and standards for regulated materials and require us to obtain permits and comply with various other requirements.  The improper characterization, handling, or disposal of regulated materials or any other failure by us to comply with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations or associated environmental permits could subject us to the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, or the issuance of injunctions that could restrict or prevent our ability to operate our business and complete contracted projects.. In addition, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (\"CERCLA\"), and comparable state and foreign laws, we may be required to investigate and remediate regulated materials.  CERCLA and the comparable state laws typically impose liability without regard to whether a company knew of or caused the release, and liability for the entire cost of clean-up can be imposed upon any responsible party.. We are subject to numerous other laws and regulations including those related to business registrations and licenses, environment, workplace, employment, health and safety.  These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future.  It is impossible to predict the effect on us of any future changes to these laws and regulations.  We can provide no absolute assurance that our operations will continue to comply with future laws and regulations or that the costs to comply with these laws and regulations and/or a failure to comply with these laws will not significantly adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 16. Table of Contents. A failure or outage in our operational systems or cyber security attacks on any of our systems, or those of third parties, may adversely affect our financial results.. We have become more reliant on technology to help increase efficiency in our business.  We use numerous technologies to help run our operations, and this may subject our business to increased risks.  Any cyber security attack that affects our facilities, our systems, our customers and any of our financial data could have a material adverse effect on our business.  In addition, a cyber-attack on our customer and employee data may result in a financial loss, including potential fines for failure to safeguard data, and may negatively impact our reputation.  Third-party systems on which we rely could also suffer system failure.  Any of these occurrences could disrupt our business, result in potential liability or reputational damage or otherwise have an adverse effect on our financial results.. We have experienced cybersecurity threats to our information technology infrastructure and have experienced cyber-attacks, attempts to breach our systems and other similar incidents. Such prior events have not had a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.  However, future threats could cause harm to our business and our reputation, as well as negatively impact our results of operations materially.  Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all the costs related to cyber-attacks or disruptions resulting from such events.. Any security breach resulting in the unauthorized use or disclosure of certain personal information could put individuals at risk of identity theft and financial or other harm and result in costs to the Company in investigation, remediation, legal defense and in liability to parties who are financially harmed.  We may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of information security breaches or to respond to or alleviate problems caused by such breaches.  For example, laws may require notification to regulators, clients or employees and enlisting credit monitoring or identity theft protection in the event of a privacy breach.  A cybersecurity attack could also be directed at our systems and result in interruptions in our operations or delivery of services to our clients and their customers.  Furthermore, a material security breach could cause us to lose revenues, lose clients or cause damage to our reputation.. We rely on internally and externally developed software applications and systems to support critical functions including project management, estimating, scheduling, human resources, accounting, and financial reporting.  Any sudden loss, disruption or unexpected costs to maintain these systems could significantly increase our operational expense as well as disrupt the management of our business operations.. We rely on various software systems to conduct our critical operating and administrative functions.  We depend on our software vendors to provide long-term software maintenance support for our information systems.  Software vendors may decide to discontinue further development, integration or long-term software maintenance support for our information systems, in which case we may need to abandon one or more of our current information systems and migrate some or all of our project management, human resources, estimating, scheduling,  accounting and financial information to other systems, thus increasing our operational expense as well as disrupting the management of our business operations.. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws.. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to officials or others for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.  Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws.  We operate in parts of the world that have experienced corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices.  We train our personnel concerning anti-bribery laws and issues, and we also inform our customers, vendors, and others who work for us or on our behalf that they must comply with anti-bribery law requirements.  We also have procedures and controls in place to monitor compliance.  We cannot assure that our internal controls and procedures always will protect us from the possible reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents.  If we are found to be liable for anti-bribery law violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others including our partners, agents, subcontractors or suppliers), we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, including contract cancellations or debarment, and loss of reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.  Litigation or investigations relating to alleged or suspected violations of anti-bribery laws, even if ultimately such litigation or investigations demonstrate that we did not violate anti-bribery laws, could be costly and could divert management's attention away from other aspects of our business.. 17. Table of Contents. Economic, political and other risks associated with international operations could adversely affect our business.. A portion of our operations are conducted outside the United States, and accordingly, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, instability in political or economic conditions, difficulty in repatriating cash proceeds, differing employee relations, differing regulatory environments, trade protection measures, and difficulty in administering and enforcing corporate policies which may be different than the normal business practices of local cultures.. Risk Factors Related to Our Common Stock. Our common stock, which is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations.  These fluctuations could continue in the future, and our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares of common stock at or above the purchase price paid.. The market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, including the following:. • the risk factors described in this Item 1A;. • general conditions in our customers' industries;. • general conditions in the security markets;. • the significant concentration of ownership of our common stock in the hands of a small number of institutional investors;. • a shortfall in operating revenue or net income from that expected by securities analysts and investors; and. • changes in securities analysts' estimates of our financial performance or the financial performance of our competitors or companies in our industry.. Some companies that have volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to security class action suits filed against them.  If a suit were to be filed against us, regardless of the outcome, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.  This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or otherwise, either by us, a member of management or a major stockholder, or the perception that these sales could occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities.. We may issue additional equity securities, which could lead to dilution of our issued and outstanding stock.. The issuance of additional common stock, restricted stock units or securities convertible into our common stock could result in dilution of the ownership interest held by existing stockholders.  We are authorized to issue, without stockholder approval 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, in one or more series, which may give other stockholders dividend, conversion, voting, and liquidation rights, among other rights, which may be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock.  In addition, we are authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, a significant number of additional shares of our common stock and securities convertible into either common stock or preferred stock.. 18. Table of Contents. Shareholder activists could cause a disruption to our business.. An activist investor may indicate disagreement with our strategic direction or capital allocation policies and may seek representation on our Board of Directors.  Our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected and may result in, among other things:. • increased operating costs, including increased legal expenses, insurance, administrative expenses and associated costs incurred in connection with director election contests;. • uncertainties as to our future direction, which could result in the loss of potential business opportunities and could make it more difficult to attract, retain, or motivate qualified personnel, and strain relationships with investors and customers; and. • reduction or delay in our ability to effectively execute our current business strategy and to implement new strategies."
