[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. If any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary risk factors listed below actually occurs, Mattel's business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected.  The risk factors listed below are not exhaustive.  Other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K include additional factors that could materially and adversely impact Mattel's business, financial condition and results of operations.  Moreover, Mattel operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment.  New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict the impact of all of these factors on Mattel's business, financial condition or results of operations, or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not rely on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.  Any or all of the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any other public statement made by Mattel or its representatives may turn out to be wrong.  Mattel expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new developments or otherwise.. If Mattel does not successfully identify or satisfy consumer preferences, its results of operations may be adversely affected.. Mattel's business and operating results depend largely upon the appeal of its products, driven by both innovation and marketing.  Consumer preferences, particularly with children as the end users of Mattel's products, are continuously changing.  Significant, sudden shifts in demand are caused by \"hit\" toys and trends, which are often unpredictable.  Mattel offers a diverse range of products for children of all ages and families that includes, among others, toys for infants and preschoolers, girls' toys, boys' toys, youth electronics, digital media, hand-held and other games, puzzles, educational toys, media-driven products, and fashion-related toys.  Mattel competes domestically and internationally with a wide range of large and small manufacturers, marketers and sellers of toys, video games, consumer electronics such as tablets and mobile devices, and other play products, as well as retailers, which means that Mattel's market position is always at risk.  Mattel's ability to maintain its current product sales, and increase its product sales or establish product sales with new, innovative toys, will depend on Mattel's ability to satisfy play preferences, enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products, and achieve market acceptance of these products.  These challenges are intensifying due to trends towards shorter life cycles for individual toy products, the phenomenon of children outgrowing traditional toys at younger ages, an increasing use of more sophisticated technology in toys, and an evolving path to purchase.  If Mattel does not successfully meet the challenges outlined above in a timely and cost-effective manner, demand for its products could decrease, and Mattel's revenues, profitability and results of operations may be adversely affected.. High levels of competition and low barriers to entry make it difficult to achieve, maintain, or build upon the success of Mattel's brands, products, and product lines.. Mattel faces competitors who are also constantly monitoring and attempting to anticipate consumer tastes, seeking ideas which will appeal to consumers, and introducing new products that compete with Mattel's products.  In addition, competition for access to entertainment properties could lessen Mattel's ability to secure, maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products developed by other parties and licensed to Mattel or require Mattel to pay licensors higher royalties and higher minimum guaranteed payments in order to obtain or retain these licenses.  As a licensee of entertainment properties, Mattel has no guarantee that a particular property or brand will translate into a successful toy, game, or other product.  In addition, the barriers to entry for new participants in the toy products industry are low.  In a very short period of time, new market participants with a popular product idea or entertainment property can become a significant source of competition for Mattel and its products.  If demand for Mattel's brands, products and product lines is reduced as a result of these factors, Mattel's results of operations may be adversely affected.. 10. Inaccurately anticipating changes and trends in popular culture, media and movies, fashion, or technology can negatively affect Mattel's sales.. Successful movies and characters in children's literature affect play preferences, and many products depend on media-based intellectual property licenses.  Media-based licenses can cause a line of toys or other products to gain immediate success among children, parents, or families.  Trends in media, movies, and children's characters change swiftly and contribute to the transience and uncertainty of play preferences.  In addition, certain developments in the entertainment industry, including labor strikes, could cause delay or interruption in the release of new movies and television programs and could adversely affect the sales of Mattel's products based on such movies and television programs.  Mattel responds to such trends and developments by modifying, refreshing, extending, and expanding its product offerings on an annual basis.  If Mattel does not accurately anticipate trends in popular culture, movies, media, fashion, or technology, its products may not be accepted by children, parents, or families and Mattel's revenues, profitability, and results of operations may be adversely affected.. Mattel's failure to successfully market or advertise its products could have an adverse effect on Mattel's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Mattel's products are marketed worldwide through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs.  Mattel's ability to sell products is dependent in part upon the success of these programs.  If Mattel does not successfully market its products or if media or other advertising or promotional costs increase, these factors could have an adverse effect on Mattel's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Mattel's business is highly seasonal and its operating results depend, in large part, on sales during the relatively brief traditional holiday season.  Any events that disrupt Mattel's business during its peak demand times could significantly, adversely, and disproportionately affect Mattel's business.. Mattel's business is subject to risks associated with the underproduction of popular toys and the overproduction of toys that are less popular with consumers.  Sales of toy products at retail are highly seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from September through December.  In recent years, many consumers have delayed their purchases until just before the holidays.  As a result, Mattel's operating results depend, in large part, on sales during the relatively brief traditional holiday season.  Retailers attempt to manage their inventories tightly, which requires Mattel to ship products closer to the time the retailers expect to sell the products to consumers.  This in turn results in shorter lead times for production.  Management believes that the recent increase in \"last minute\" shopping during the holiday season and the popularity of gift cards (which often shift purchases to after the holiday season) may negatively impact customer re-orders during the holiday season.  These factors may decrease sales or increase the risks that Mattel may not be able to meet demand for certain products at peak demand times or that Mattel's own inventory levels may be adversely impacted by the need to pre-build products before orders are placed.. In addition, as a result of the seasonal nature of Mattel's business, Mattel may be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events, such as terrorist attacks, economic shocks, severe weather, earthquakes or other catastrophic events, that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during its key selling season, or by events, such as strikes, disruptions in transportation, or port delays, that interfere with the manufacture or shipment of goods during the critical months leading up to the holiday purchasing season.. Mattel has significant customer concentration, so that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing policies or patterns of its key customers could have a significant impact on Mattel's business and operating results.. A small number of customers account for a large share of Mattel's net sales.  In 2017, Mattel's three largest customers, Wal-Mart, Toys \"R\" Us, and Target, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 37% of net sales, and its ten largest customers, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 47% of net sales.  While the concentration of Mattel's business with a relatively small number of customers may provide certain benefits to Mattel, such as potentially more efficient product distribution and decreased costs of sales and distribution, this concentration may expose Mattel to a material adverse effect if one or more of Mattel's large customers were to significantly reduce purchases for any reason, favor competitors or new entrants, or increase their direct competition with Mattel by expanding their private-label business.  Customers make no binding long-term commitments to Mattel regarding purchase volumes and make all purchases by delivering one-time purchase orders.  Any customer could reduce its overall purchases of Mattel's products, reduce the number and variety of Mattel's products that it carries and the shelf space allotted for Mattel's products, or otherwise seek to materially change the terms of the business relationship at any time.  Any such change could significantly harm Mattel's business and operating results.  Furthermore, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of Mattel's significant retail customers has, and in the future could negatively impact Mattel's revenues and profitability.. 11. Liquidity problems or bankruptcy of Mattel's key customers, including the recent bankruptcy filing by Toys \"R\" Us, could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel's business, financial condition and results of operations.. Mattel's sales to customers are typically made on credit without collateral.  There is a risk that key customers will not pay, or that payment may be delayed, because of bankruptcy, contraction of credit availability to such customers, weak retail sales or other factors beyond the control of Mattel, which could increase Mattel's exposure to losses from bad debts.  In addition, if key customers were to cease doing business as a result of bankruptcy or significantly reduce the number of stores operated, it could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. On September 18, 2017, Toys \"R\" Us, accounting for 8% and 11% of Mattel's net sales for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and certain of its affiliates filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code with the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, Richmond Division.  Mattel expects this Chapter 11 proceeding to impact its recurring revenue from Toys \"R\" Us and if Toys \"R\" Us were unsuccessful with their Chapter 11 reorganization, it could lead to potential adverse effects on Mattel's business, financial condition and results of operations, including its ability to collect its trade receivables.. Mattel may be unable to realize the anticipated cost savings from its previously announced cost savings plan or may incur additional and/or unexpected costs in order to realize them.. Mattel is implementing a series of cost savings initiatives as described in Part II, Item 7 \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Cost Savings Programs\".  Mattel expects to incur one-time, non-recurring costs to achieve such cost savings, including certain costs during 2018 and 2019.  There can be no assurance that Mattel will be able to realize the anticipated cost savings from its previously announced cost savings plan in the amounts or within the anticipated timeframes or at all.  In addition, any cost savings that Mattel realizes may be offset, in whole or in part, by reductions in net sales or through increases in other expenses.  Failure to realize the expected cost savings from its proposed cost savings plan could have an adverse effect on Mattel's financial results and prospects.. The amounts of anticipated cost savings and anticipated expenses related thereto are based on Mattel's current estimates, but they involve risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those described herein.  Assumptions relating to the plans and amounts related thereto involve subjective decisions and judgments with respect to, among other things, the estimated impact of certain operational adjustments, including marketing efficiency, labor management, material input cost fluctuations, plant transition costs and other cost and savings adjustments, as well as future economic, competitive, industry and market conditions and future business decisions, all of which are inherently uncertain and may be beyond the control of Mattel's management.  Although Mattel's management believes these estimates and assumptions to be reasonable, any of the assumptions could be inaccurate, and there can be no assurance that the estimates described herein will prove to be accurate or that the objectives and plans expressed will be achieved.  Neither Mattel's independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent registered public accounting firm, has examined, compiled or performed any procedures with respect to these amounts, nor have they expressed any opinion, or any other form of assurance, on such information or their achievability.. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the anticipated cost savings will be realized or that the impact of the efforts to achieve such cost savings will not be significantly different than currently anticipated.  Mattel undertakes no obligation to update or otherwise revise or reconcile its expectations regarding its cost savings efforts whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.. 12. Failure to successfully implement new initiatives or meet product introduction schedules could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Mattel has announced, and in the future may announce, initiatives to reduce its costs, increase its efficiency, improve the execution of its core business, globalize and extend Mattel's brands, catch new trends, create new brands, and offer new innovative products and improve existing products, enhance product safety, develop people, improve productivity, simplify processes, maintain customer service levels, as well as initiatives designed to drive sales growth, capitalize on Mattel's scale advantage, and improve its supply chain.  These initiatives involve investment of capital and complex decision-making as well as extensive and intensive execution, and the success of these initiatives is not assured.  In addition, Mattel may anticipate introducing a particular product, product line or brand at a certain time in the future.  There is no guarantee that Mattel will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing products in a timely manner and on a cost-effective basis.  Unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process or significant increases in the planned cost of development for new Mattel products may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated or, in some situations, may cause a product or new product introduction to be discontinued.  Failure to successfully implement any of these initiatives, or launches, or the failure of any of these initiatives or launches to produce the results anticipated by management, could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Significant increases in the price of commodities, transportation, or labor, if not offset by declines in other input costs, or a reduction or interruption in the delivery of raw materials, components, and finished products from Mattel's vendors could negatively impact Mattel's financial results.. Cost increases, whether resulting from rising costs of materials, transportation, services, labor, or compliance with existing or future regulatory requirements, could impact the profit margins realized by Mattel on the sale of its products.  Because of market conditions, timing of pricing decisions, and other factors, there can be no assurance that Mattel will be able to offset any of these increased costs by adjusting the prices of its products.  Increases in prices of Mattel's products may not be sustainable and could result in lower sales.  Mattel's ability to meet customer demand depends, in part, on its ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of materials, parts and components from its suppliers and internal manufacturing capacity.  Mattel has experienced shortages in the past, including shortages of raw materials and components.  Additionally, as Mattel cannot guarantee the stability of its major suppliers, major suppliers may stop manufacturing components at any time with little or no notice.  If Mattel is required to use alternative sources, it may be required to redesign some aspects of the affected products, which may involve delays and additional expense.  Although Mattel works closely with suppliers to avoid these types of shortages, there can be no assurance that Mattel will not encounter these problems in the future.  A reduction or interruption in supplies or in the delivery of finished products, whether resulting from more stringent regulatory requirements, disruptions in transportation, port delays, labor strikes, lockouts, an outbreak of a severe public health pandemic, severe weather, the occurrence or threat of wars or other conflicts, or a significant increase in the price of one or more supplies, such as fuel or resin (which is an oil-based product used in plastics), or otherwise, could negatively impact Mattel's financial results.. Mattel's substantial indebtedness could adversely affect its ability to raise additional capital to fund its operations, limit its ability to react to changes in the economy or its industry, and expose it to interest rate risk to the extent of its variable rate debt.. At December 31, 2017, Mattel had approximately $3.12 billion of indebtedness on a consolidated basis, consisting of the 6.75% Senior Notes due 2025 as well as the Senior Notes issued in the prior years.  In addition, Mattel has an additional $1.60 billion of unused commitments under its new senior secured revolving credit facilities, subject to borrowing base capacity.  For more information, see Part II, Item 8 \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements - Seasonal Financing and Debt\".. Subject to the limits contained in the credit agreement that governs Mattel's new senior secured revolving credit facilities, the indenture that governs the notes and Mattel's other debt instruments, Mattel may incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes.  If Mattel does so, the risks related to Mattel's high level of debt would increase.  Specifically, Mattel's substantial indebtedness could have important consequences.  For example, it could:. • Require Mattel to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on Mattel's indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of Mattel's cash flow to fund acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, and other general corporate purposes;. • Increase Mattel's vulnerability to and limit Mattel's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industries in which it operates;. • Restrict Mattel from making strategic acquisitions or cause Mattel to make non-strategic divestitures;. 13. • Expose Mattel to the risk of increased interest rates as borrowings under its new senior secured revolving credit facilities will be subject to variable rates of interest;. • Expose Mattel to additional risks related to currency exchange rates and repatriation of funds;. • Place Mattel at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; and. • Limit Mattel's ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, business development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes.. Any reduction in Mattel's credit ratings could increase the cost of issuing any such debt.  Mattel may be hindered from obtaining, or incur additional costs to obtain, additional credit in tight credit markets.  Additionally, Mattel's ability to issue additional debt could be adversely affected by additional factors, such as market conditions.. In addition, the indenture governing the notes and the agreements governing Mattel's new senior secured revolving credit facilities contain affirmative and negative covenants that limit Mattel's ability to engage in activities that may be in its long-term best interests.  Mattel's failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of Mattel's debts.. To service Mattel's indebtedness, Mattel will require a significant amount of cash and Mattel's ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond Mattel's control.. Mattel's ability to make cash payments on and to refinance its indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures, will depend on Mattel's ability to generate significant operating cash flow in the future.  This, to a significant extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond Mattel's control.. Mattel's business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available under Mattel's new senior secured revolving credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable Mattel to pay its indebtedness or to fund its other liquidity needs.  In such circumstances, Mattel may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness upon or before maturity.  Mattel may not be able to refinance any of Mattel's indebtedness, including its new senior secured revolving credit facilities and the notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  If Mattel cannot service its indebtedness, Mattel may need to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances.  Such actions, if necessary, may not be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  The credit agreement governing Mattel's new senior secured revolving credit facilities and the indenture governing the notes will restrict Mattel's ability to sell assets and use the proceeds from such sales.. If Mattel is unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on its indebtedness, or if Mattel otherwise fails to comply with the various covenants in the instruments governing its indebtedness, Mattel could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness.  In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under Mattel's new senior secured revolving credit facilities could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against Mattel's assets, and Mattel could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.  If Mattel's operating performance declines, it may need to obtain waivers in the future from the required lenders under its new senior secured revolving credit facilities to avoid being in default.  If Mattel breaches its covenants under its new senior secured revolving credit facilities and seeks a waiver, Mattel may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders.  If this occurs, Mattel would be in default under its new senior secured revolving credit facilities, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and Mattel could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.. Mattel's variable rate indebtedness subjects Mattel to interest rate risk, which could cause Mattel's debt service obligations to increase significantly.. Borrowings under Mattel's new senior secured revolving credit facilities will be at variable rates of interest and will expose Mattel to interest rate risk.  Interest rates are currently at historically low levels.  If interest rates increase, Mattel's debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and Mattel's net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing its indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease.  Assuming all revolving loans under Mattel's new senior secured revolving credit facilities are fully drawn and the interest rates are above the interest rate floor set forth in the credit agreement governing Mattel's new senior secured revolving credit facilities, each one-eighth point change in interest rates would result in a $2.0 million change in annual interest expense on Mattel's indebtedness under its new senior secured revolving credit facilities.  However, Mattel may maintain interest rate swaps with respect to any of its variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps Mattel enters into may not fully mitigate Mattel's interest rate risk.. 14. Mattel is dependent upon its lenders for financing to execute its business strategy and meet its liquidity needs.  If Mattel's lenders are unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments or Mattel is unable to borrow, it could negatively impact Mattel's business.. In the current volatile credit market, there is risk that any lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including but not limited to: extending credit up to the maximum amount permitted by a credit facility and otherwise accessing capital and/or honoring loan commitments.  If Mattel's lenders are unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments or Mattel is unable to borrow, it could be difficult in this environment to replace Mattel's new senior secured revolving credit facilities on similar terms.. Significant changes in currency exchange rates or the ability to transfer capital across borders could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel's business and results of operations.. Mattel operates facilities and sells products in numerous countries outside the U.S.  During 2017, Mattel's International segment net sales were 42% of Mattel's total consolidated net sales.  Furthermore, Mattel's net investment in its foreign subsidiaries and its results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes in currency exchange rates and regulations.  Highly inflationary economies of certain foreign countries can result in foreign currency devaluation, which negatively impacts Mattel's profitability.  Mattel seeks to mitigate the exposure of its results of operations to fluctuations in currency exchange rates by aligning its prices with the local currency cost of acquiring inventory, distributing earnings in U.S. dollars, and partially hedging this exposure using foreign currency forward exchange contracts.  These contracts are primarily used to hedge Mattel's purchase and sale of inventory, and other intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies.  Government action may restrict Mattel's ability to transfer capital across borders and may also impact the fluctuation of currencies in the countries where Mattel conducts business or has invested capital.  Significant changes in currency exchange rates, reductions in Mattel's ability to transfer its capital across borders, and changes in government-fixed currency exchange rates, including the Chinese yuan, could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel's business and results of operations.. If global economic conditions deteriorate, Mattel's business and financial results could be adversely affected.. Mattel designs, manufactures, and markets a wide variety of toy products worldwide through sales to retailer customers and directly to consumers.  Mattel's performance is impacted by the level of discretionary consumer spending, which remains relatively weak in many countries around the world in which Mattel does business.  Consumers' discretionary purchases of toy products may be impacted by job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit, significantly falling home prices, lower consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors that affect consumer spending behavior.  Any of these factors can reduce the amount which consumers spend on the purchase of Mattel's products.  Deterioration of global economic conditions or disruptions in credit markets in the markets in which Mattel operates could potentially have a material adverse effect on Mattel's liquidity and capital resources, including increasing Mattel's cost of capital or its ability to raise additional capital if needed, or otherwise adversely affect Mattel's business and financial results.. In addition to experiencing potentially lower revenues during times of economic difficulty, in an effort to maintain sales during such times, Mattel may need to increase promotional spending or take other steps to encourage retailer and consumer purchase of its products.  Those steps may increase costs and/or decrease operating margins.. An increasing portion of Mattel's business may come from new and emerging markets, and growing business in new and emerging markets presents additional challenges.. Mattel expects an increasing portion of its net revenues to come from new and emerging markets, including China, India, and Russia.  Operating in new and emerging markets, each with its own unique consumer preferences and business climates, presents additional challenges that Mattel must meet.  In addition, sales and operations in new and emerging markets are subject to other risks associated with international operations.  Such risks include complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions; dealing with changes in governmental policies and the evolution of laws and regulations that impact Mattel's product offerings and related enforcement; difficulties understanding the retail climate, consumer trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets, which may be quite different from the U.S.; difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; potential challenges to Mattel's transfer pricing determinations and other aspects of its cross border transactions; and the impact of tariffs, quotas, or other protectionist measures.. Because of the importance of Mattel's new and emerging market net revenues, Mattel's business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed if any of the risks described above are not properly managed, or if Mattel is otherwise unsuccessful in managing its new and emerging market business.. 15. An increasing portion of Mattel's business may come from technologically advanced or sophisticated digital and smart technology products, which present additional challenges compared to more traditional toys and games.. Mattel expects that children will continue to be interested in product offerings incorporating sophisticated technology, such as video games, consumer electronics and social and digital media, at younger and younger ages.  Mattel also expects that parents will seek to enhance child development and learning through digital technologies and analog and technology-based play.. In addition to the risks associated with Mattel's more traditional products, sophisticated digital and smart technology products face certain additional risks.  Costs associated with designing, developing and producing technologically advanced or sophisticated products tend to be higher than for many of Mattel's more traditional products.  Heavy competition in consumer electronics and entertainment products and difficult economic conditions may increase the risk of Mattel not achieving sales sufficient to recover the increased costs associated with these products.  Designing, developing and producing sophisticated digital and smart technology products requires different competencies and may follow longer timelines than traditional toys and games, and any delays in the design, development or production of these products could have a significant impact on Mattel's ability to successfully offer such products.  In addition, the pace of change in product offerings and consumer tastes in the video games, consumer electronics and social and digital media areas is potentially even greater than for Mattel's more traditional products.  This pace of change means that the window in which a technologically advanced or sophisticated product can achieve and maintain consumer interest may be shorter than traditional toys and games.  These products may also present data security and data privacy risks and be subject to certain laws, government policies or regulations not applicable to more traditional products, such as the U.S. Children's Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 and the EU Data Protection Directive (Directive 95/46/EC), which will be succeeded by the EU General Data Protection Regulation in May 2018, and related national regulations.. Mattel relies extensively on information technology in its operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security breach of that technology could have a material adverse impact on its business.. Mattel relies extensively on information technology systems across its operations, including for management of its supply chain, sale and delivery of its products and services, reporting its results of operations, collection and storage of consumer data, personal data of customers, employees and other stakeholders, and various other processes and transactions.  Many of these systems are managed by third-party service providers.  Mattel uses third-party technology and systems for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery to customers, back-office support, and other functions.  A small and growing volume of Mattel's consumer products and services are web-based, and some are offered in conjunction with business partners or such third-party service providers.  Mattel and its business partners and third-party service providers collect, process, store and transmit consumer data, including personal information, in connection with those products and services.  Failure to follow applicable regulations related to those activities, or to prevent or mitigate data loss or other security breaches, including breaches of Mattel's business partners' technology and systems could expose Mattel or its customers to a risk of loss or misuse of such information, which could adversely affect Mattel's operating results, result in regulatory enforcement, other litigation and potential liability for Mattel, and otherwise harm its business.  Mattel's ability to effectively manage its business and coordinate the production, distribution, and sale of its products and services depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems and third-party service providers.  Although Mattel has developed systems and processes that are designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, including systems and processes designed to reduce the impact of a security breach at a third party provider, such measures cannot provide absolute security.. Mattel has exposure to similar security risks faced by other large companies that have data stored on their information technology systems.  To its knowledge, Mattel has not experienced any material breach of its cybersecurity systems.  If  Mattel's or its third-party service providers systems fail to operate effectively or are damaged, destroyed, or shut down, or there are problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or there are security breaches in these systems, any of the aforementioned could occur as a result of natural disasters, software or equipment failures, telecommunications failures, loss or theft of equipment, acts of terrorism, circumvention of security systems, or other cyber-attacks, including denial-of-service attacks, Mattel could experience delays or decreases in product sales, and reduced efficiency of its operations.  Additionally, any of these events could lead to violations of privacy laws, loss of customers, or loss, misappropriation or corruption of confidential information, trade secrets or data, which could expose Mattel to potential litigation, regulatory actions, sanctions or other statutory penalties, any or all of which could adversely affect its business, and cause it to incur significant losses and remediation costs.. 16. Additionally, Mattel regularly moves data across national borders to conduct its operations, and consequently is subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad regarding privacy, data protection, and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data.  Significant uncertainty exists as privacy and data protection laws may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements.  For example, the EU General Data Protection Regulation, which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of European Union law and becomes effective in May 2018, adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, and imposes substantial penalties for non-compliance.  Mattel's efforts to comply with GDPR and other privacy and data protection laws may impose significant costs and challenges that are likely to increase over time.. Mattel's business depends in large part on the success of its vendors and outsourcers, and Mattel's brands and reputation may be harmed by actions taken by third-parties that are outside Mattel's control.  In addition, any material failure, inadequacy, or interruption resulting from such vendors or outsourcings could harm Mattel's ability to effectively operate its business.. As a part of its efforts to cut costs, achieve better efficiencies and increase productivity and service quality, Mattel relies significantly on vendor and outsourcing relationships with third parties for services and systems including manufacturing, transportation, logistics and information technology.  Any shortcoming of a Mattel vendor or outsourcer, particularly an issue affecting the quality of these services or systems, may be attributed by customers to Mattel, thus damaging Mattel's reputation, and brand value, and potentially affecting its results of operations.  In addition, problems with transitioning these services and systems to or operating failures with these vendors and outsourcers could cause delays in product sales, and reduce efficiency of Mattel's operations, and significant capital investments could be required to remediate the problem.. If Mattel is not able to adequately protect its proprietary intellectual property and information, and protect against third party claims that Mattel is infringing on their intellectual property rights, its results of operations could be adversely affected.. The value of Mattel's business depends on its ability to protect its intellectual property and information, including its trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents, trade secrets, and rights under intellectual property license agreements and other agreements with third parties, in the U.S. and around the world, as well as its customer, employee, and consumer data.  From time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, Mattel's ownership of its intellectual property in the U.S. and around the world.  In addition, Mattel's business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting its products or infringing on its intellectual property rights.  The steps Mattel has taken may not prevent unauthorized use of its intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect its intellectual property as fully as in the U.S.  Mattel may need to resort to litigation to protect its intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources.  If Mattel fails to protect its proprietary intellectual property and information, including with respect to any successful challenge to Mattel's ownership of its intellectual property or material infringements of its intellectual property, this failure could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Mattel has acquired certain intellectual properties from third parties.  Declines in the profitability of these acquired brands may impact Mattel's ability to recover the carrying value of the related assets and could result in an impairment charge.  Reduction in net earnings caused by impairment charges could harm Mattel's financial results.. Unfavorable resolution of or adverse developments in legal proceedings, other investigations, or regulatory matters could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel's financial condition.. Mattel periodically receives claims of infringement of intellectual property rights held by other parties.  Responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, may be costly and time-consuming and may divert management and key personnel from business operations.  If Mattel, its distributors, its licensors or its manufacturers are found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of any third party, they may be required to obtain a license to use those rights, which may not be obtainable on reasonable terms, if at all.. Mattel is, from time to time, involved in litigation or other disputes, investigations, and regulatory matters.  An unfavorable resolution of these matters could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel's financial condition and its operations.  Regardless of their outcome, these matters may result in substantial costs and expenses, significantly divert the attention of management, or interrupt Mattel's normal business operations.  There can be no assurance that Mattel will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, any of these matters.. 17. Mattel is subject to various laws and government policies or regulations in numerous jurisdictions, violation of which could subject it to sanctions.  In addition, changes in such laws or policies or regulations may lead to increased costs, changes in Mattel's effective tax rate, or the interruption of normal business operations that would negatively impact Mattel's financial condition and results of operations.. Mattel operates in a highly regulated environment in the U.S. and international markets.  U.S. federal, state, and local governmental entities, and foreign governments regulate many aspects of Mattel's business, including its products and the importation and exportation of its products.  These policies or regulations may include accounting standards, taxation requirements (including changes in applicable income tax rates, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations), product safety and other safety standards, trade restrictions, duties and tariffs (including international trade laws and regulations, export controls and economic sanctions), and regulations regarding currency and financial matters, anticorruption standards (such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act), environmental matters, advertising directed toward children, product content, and privacy and data protection, as well as other administrative and regulatory restrictions.  While Mattel takes all the steps it believes are necessary to comply with these laws and policies or regulations, there can be no assurance that Mattel will be in compliance in the future.  Compliance with these various laws, regulations and policies imposes significant costs on Mattel's business, and failure to comply could result in monetary liabilities and other penalties, and could lead to significant negative media attention and consumer dissatisfaction, which could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel's business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, changes in laws or policies or regulations may lead to increased costs, changes in Mattel's effective tax rate, or the interruption of normal business operations, any of which could negatively impact its financial condition and results of operations.  In particular, the recently enacted U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"Tax Act\" or \"U.S. Tax Reform\") and guidance to be issued by the Department of the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service related to certain of these U.S. Tax Reform provisions may have a material adverse effect on Mattel's net income and cash flows, and many aspects of U.S. Tax Reform are unclear and may not be clarified for some time.  For example, compliance with U.S Tax Reform may require the collection of information not regularly produced within Mattel, the use of provisional estimates in its financial statements, and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for its provisions.  As regulations and guidance evolve with respect to U.S. Tax Reform, and as Mattel gathers more information and performs more analysis, Mattel's results may differ from previous estimates and may materially affect its financial position.. In addition, increases in import and excise duties and/or sales or value added taxes in the jurisdictions in which Mattel operates could affect the affordability of Mattel's products and, therefore, reduce demand.. Issues with products may lead to product liability, personal injury or property damage claims, recalls, withdrawals, replacements of products, or regulatory actions by governmental authorities that could divert resources, affect business operations, decrease sales, increase costs, and put Mattel at a competitive disadvantage, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel's financial condition.. Mattel has experienced, and may in the future experience, issues with products that may lead to product liability, personal injury or property damage claims, recalls, withdrawals, replacements of products, or regulatory actions by governmental authorities.  Any of these activities could result in increased governmental scrutiny, harm to Mattel's reputation, reduced demand by consumers for its products, decreased willingness by retailer customers to purchase or provide marketing support for those products, adverse impacts on Mattel's ability to enter into licensing agreements for products on competitive terms, absence or increased cost of insurance, or additional safety and testing requirements.  Such results could divert development and management resources, adversely affect Mattel's business operations, decrease sales, increase legal fees and other costs, and put Mattel at a competitive disadvantage compared to other manufacturers not affected by similar issues with products, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel's financial condition and results of operations.. 18. Mattel's current and future operating procedures and product requirements may increase costs, significantly and adversely affect its relationship with vendors, and make it more difficult for Mattel to produce, purchase, and deliver products on a timely basis to meet market demands.  Future conditions may require Mattel to adopt further changes that may increase its costs and further affect its relationship with vendors.. Mattel's current operating procedures and product requirements, including testing requirements and standards, have imposed costs on both Mattel and the vendors from which it purchases products.  Changes in business conditions, including those resulting from new legislative and regulatory requirements, have caused and in the future could cause further revisions in Mattel's operating procedures and product requirements.  Changes in Mattel's operating procedures and product requirements may delay delivery of products and increase costs.  Mattel's relationship with its existing vendors may be adversely affected as a result of these changes, making Mattel more dependent on a smaller number of vendors.  Mattel is not currently dependent on a single supplier or group of suppliers.  Some vendors may choose not to continue to do business with Mattel or not to accommodate Mattel's needs to the extent that they have done in the past.  In addition, rising production costs, contraction of credit availability, and labor shortages have caused a substantial contraction in the number of toy manufacturers in China, decreasing the number of potential vendors to manufacture Mattel's products.  Because of the seasonal nature of Mattel's business and the demands of its customers for deliveries with short lead times, Mattel depends upon the cooperation of its vendors to meet market demand for its products in a timely manner.  There can be no assurance that existing and future events will not require Mattel to adopt additional requirements and incur additional costs, and impose those requirements and costs on its vendors, which may adversely affect its relationship with those vendors and Mattel's ability to meet market demand in a timely manner.. Political developments, including trade relations, and the threat or occurrence of war or terrorist activities could adversely impact Mattel, its personnel and facilities, its customers and suppliers, retail and financial markets, and general economic conditions.. Mattel's business is worldwide in scope, including operations in over 50 countries and territories.  Political instability, civil unrest, the deterioration of the political situation in a country in which Mattel has significant sales or operations, or the breakdown of trade relations between the U.S. and a foreign country in which Mattel has significant manufacturing facilities or other operations, could adversely affect Mattel's business, financial condition, and results of operations.  For example, a change in trade status for China or Mexico could result in a substantial increase in the import duty of toys manufactured in these countries and imported into the U.S.  In addition, the occurrence of war or hostilities between countries or threat of terrorist activities, and the responses to and results of these activities, could adversely impact Mattel, its personnel and facilities, its customers and suppliers, retail and financial markets, and general economic conditions.. Disruptions in Mattel's manufacturing operations due to political instability, civil unrest, or disease could negatively impact Mattel's business, financial position, and results of operations.. Mattel owns, operates and manages manufacturing facilities and utilizes third-party manufacturers throughout Asia, primarily in China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Canada, and Mexico.  The risk of political instability and civil unrest exists in certain of these countries, which could temporarily or permanently damage Mattel's manufacturing operations located there.  In the past, outbreaks of SARS have been significantly concentrated in Asia, particularly in Hong Kong, and in the Guangdong province of China, where many of Mattel's manufacturing facilities and third-party manufacturers are located.  The design, development and manufacture of Mattel's products could suffer if a significant number of Mattel's employees or the employees of its third-party manufacturers or their suppliers contract SARS, avian flu or other communicable diseases, or otherwise are unable to fulfill their obligations to Mattel.  While Mattel has developed contingency plans designed to help mitigate the impact of disruptions in its manufacturing operations, its business, financial position, and results of operations could be negatively impacted by a significant disruption to its manufacturing operations or suppliers.. Earthquakes or other catastrophic events out of Mattel's control may damage its facilities or those of its contractors and harm Mattel's results of operations.. Mattel has significant operations near major earthquake faults, including its corporate headquarters in El Segundo, California.  A catastrophic event where Mattel has important operations, such as an earthquake, tsunami, flood, typhoon, fire, or other natural or manmade disaster, could disrupt Mattel's operations or those of its contractors and impair production or distribution of its products, damage inventory, interrupt critical functions, or otherwise affect its business negatively, harming Mattel's results of operations.. 19. The production and sale of private-label toys by Mattel's retail customers may result in lower purchases of Mattel-branded products by those retail customers.. In recent years, consumer goods companies, including those in the toy business, generally have experienced the phenomenon of retail customers developing their own private-label products that directly compete with the products of traditional manufacturers.  Some retail chains that are customers of Mattel sell private-label toys designed, manufactured and branded by the retailers themselves.  These toys may be sold at prices lower than comparable toys sold by Mattel and may result in lower purchases of Mattel-branded products by these retailers.  In some cases, retailers who sell these private-label toys are larger than Mattel and may have substantially more resources than Mattel.. Mattel depends on key personnel and may not be able to hire, retain, and integrate sufficient qualified personnel to maintain and expand its business.. Mattel's future success depends partly on the continued contribution of key executives, designers, technical, sales, marketing, manufacturing, and other personnel.  The loss of services of any of Mattel's key personnel could harm Mattel's business.  Recruiting and retaining skilled personnel is costly and highly competitive.  If Mattel fails to retain, hire, train, and integrate qualified employees and contractors, Mattel may not be able to maintain or expand its business.. Mattel may engage in acquisitions, mergers, dispositions, or other strategic transactions, which may affect the profit, revenues, profit margins, debt-to-capital ratio, capital expenditures, or other aspects of Mattel's business.  In addition, Mattel has certain anti-takeover provisions in its bylaws that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Mattel without its consent, which may adversely affect Mattel's stock price.. Mattel regularly considers, and from time to time may engage in, discussions and negotiations regarding acquisitions, mergers, or dispositions or other strategic transactions that could affect the profit, revenues, profit margins, debt-to-capital ratio, capital expenditures, or other aspects of Mattel's business.  There can be no assurance that Mattel will be able to identify suitable acquisition targets or merger partners or that, if identified, it will be able to complete these transactions on terms acceptable to Mattel and to potential merger partners.  There can also be no assurance that Mattel will be successful in integrating any acquired company into its overall operations, or that any such acquired company will operate profitably or will not otherwise adversely impact Mattel's results of operations.  Further, Mattel cannot be certain that key talented individuals at those acquired companies will continue to work for Mattel after the acquisition or that they will continue to develop popular and profitable products or services.  In addition, Mattel has certain anti-takeover provisions in its bylaws that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Mattel without its consent, which may adversely affect Mattel's stock price.. The level of returns on pension plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect Mattel's earnings in future periods.  Changes in standards and government regulations could also affect its pension plan expense and funding requirements.. Assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for Mattel's pension plan are evaluated by Mattel in consultation with outside actuaries.  In the event that Mattel determines that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long term rate of return, or health care costs, its future pension benefit expenses could increase or decrease.  Due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the actuarial assumptions that Mattel uses may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on its pension and postretirement liability and related costs.  Funding obligations are determined based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date as required under relevant government regulations for each plan.  Future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could be affected by legislation enacted by the relevant governmental authorities.. If Mattel's goodwill becomes impaired, Mattel's results of operations could be adversely affected.. Mattel tests its goodwill for impairment annually or more often if an event or circumstance indicates that an impairment may have occurred.  For purposes of evaluating whether goodwill is impaired, goodwill is allocated to various reporting units, which are at the operating segment level.  Declines in profitability of Mattel's reporting units may impact the fair value of its reporting units, which could result in a write-down of its goodwill, negatively impacting its results of operations.  For more information, see Part II, Item 8 \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements - Goodwill and Other Intangibles\".. 20. Mattel's stock price has been volatile over the past several years and could decline in the future, resulting in losses for Mattel's investors.. All the factors discussed in this section or any other material announcements or events could affect Mattel's stock price.  In addition, quarterly fluctuations in Mattel's operating results, changes in investor and analyst perception of Mattel's business risks and conditions of our business, Mattel's ability to meet earnings estimates and other performance expectations of financial analysts or investors, unfavorable commentary or downgrades of Mattel's stock by research analysts, fluctuations in the stock prices of Mattel's peer companies or in stock markets in general, and general economic or political conditions could also cause the price of Mattel's stock to change.  A significant drop in the price of Mattel's stock could expose Mattel to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, adversely affecting Mattel's business.  There is a purported class action alleging federal securities laws violations currently pending in the United States District Court for the Central District of California against Mattel and individual defendants.  In addition, a stockholder has filed a derivative action in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware making allegations that are substantially identical to, or are based upon, the allegations of the class action lawsuit.  For more information, see Part II, Item 8 \"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements - Commitments and Contingencies - Litigation\"."
