[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business.. The sale of our products and our results of operations are dependent upon demand from the end markets of our customers, which is cyclical.. Our products are sold in the following major end-markets: (i) Automotive, (ii) Communications and Data Center, (iii) Computing, (iv) Consumer, and (v) Industrial. The demand for our products is subject to the strength of these five major end-markets that we serve and to some extent the overall economic climate. We often experience decreases and increases in demand for our products primarily due to the end-market demand of our customers. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if demand for our products decreases or if we are unable to meet an increase in demand without significantly increasing the lead-time for the delivery of our products. The semiconductor market historically has been cyclical with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in product demand. As a result, changes could have adverse effects on our results of operation.. Incorrect forecasts, reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products and volatility in customer demand could adversely affect our results of operations.. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, customer orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to the customers. Some customers place orders that require us to manufacture products and have them available for shipment, even though the customer may be unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the products. In other cases, we manufacture products based on forecasts of customer demands. As a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellations of orders, potentially leading to an initial inflation of backlog followed by a sharp reduction. Because of the possibility of order cancellation, backlog should not be used as a measure of future revenues. Furthermore, canceled or unrealized orders, especially for products meeting unique customer requirements, may also result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-offs, some of which could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and results of operations.. We may experience difficulties implementing our new global execution system, which may adversely affect our ability to effectively supply products to our customers.. We are implementing a new global execution system (\"GES\") as part of our efforts to integrate inventory movement with our financial reporting system. This implementation is a major undertaking and requires significant employee time and financial resources. While we have invested significant resources in planning and project management, implementation issues may arise. For example, we may experience staff turnover, which may delay the implementation of GES. Additionally, unforeseen issues may arise, which could disrupt the implementation of GES. Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and the implementation or operation of GES could disrupt or reduce our supply chain execution and operational efficiency which may lead to our inability to effectively supply products to our customers. Our inability to successfully manage the implementation of GES could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our operating results may be adversely affected by our inability to timely develop new products through our research and development efforts. We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products necessary to maintain or expand our business.. The marketplace for our products is constantly changing and we are required to make substantial ongoing investments in our research and development. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, variations in manufacturing efficiencies of new products, and significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development. New product introductions are a critical factor for maintaining or increasing future revenue growth and sustained or increased profitability. However, they can present significant business challenges because product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of the related revenues. The success of a new product depends on a variety of factors including accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, accurate anticipation of competitors' actions and offerings, timely and efficient completion of process design and development, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, product performance, quality and reliability of the product, and effective marketing, revenue and service.. 9. The loss of, or substantial reduction in sales to, any of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. A reduction in demand or loss of one or more of our large customers may adversely affect our business. For example, sales to Samsung, our largest single end customer (through direct sales and distributors), accounted for approximately 10%, 10% and 14% of net revenues in fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The delay, significant reduction in, or loss of, orders from any one or more of our large customers (including curtailments of purchases due to a change in the design, manufacturing or sourcing policies or practices of these customers or the timing of customer inventory adjustments) or demands of price concessions from any one or more of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and results of operations.. Our manufacturing operations may be interrupted or suffer yield problems.. The manufacture and design of integrated circuits is highly complex. We may experience a disruption in factory operations, manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields, or product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, outdated infrastructure, upgrading or expanding existing facilities, equipment malfunctioning, construction delays, changing our process technologies, capacity constraints, or new technology qualification delays, particularly in our internal fabrication facilities. For example, our internal fabrication facility at Beaverton, Oregon requires additional investment to, among other things, upgrade its infrastructure and manufacturing equipment. In connection with the upgrading of our facilities, we may experience a disruption in factory operations, which could result in damages to the facilities and stoppages to the operations of the facilities. Additionally, our internal fabrication facilities may be harmed or rendered inoperable due to damages resulting from fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power or other causes, which may render it difficult or impossible for us to manufacture our products for some period of time.. If our internal fabrication facilities become unavailable to us, it would be time consuming, difficult, and costly to arrange for new manufacturing facilities to supply our products given the nature of our products. In addition, our third party's manufacturing facilities may not be available to us due to natural or man-made disasters, labor unrest, political conditions or other causes. To the extent we experience disruptions at our wafer fabrication facilities or we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our dependence on subcontractors for assembly, test, freight, wafer fabrication and logistic services and certain manufacturing services may cause delays beyond our control in delivering products to our customers.. We rely on subcontractors located in various parts of the world for assembly and CSP packaging services, freight and logistic services, wafer fabrication, and sorting and testing services. For example, in connection with the sale of our semiconductor wafer fabrication facility in San Antonio, Texas to TowerJazz Texas, Inc. (formerly known as TJ Texas, Inc.) (\"TowerJazz\"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (\"Tower\"), in the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we entered into a long-term supply agreement with TowerJazz, pursuant to which we procure from TowerJazz certain quantities of silicon wafers upon which integrated circuits are made that are designed by us. None of the subcontractors we currently use are affiliated with us. Reliability problems experienced by our subcontractors or the inability to promptly replace any subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. Such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal year period impacted by the disruption. Failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations.. Any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test, freight, and logistic operations or in the operations of our subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our subcontractors to produce or timely deliver adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages, or tested products conforming to our quality standards, or other required products or services could damage our reputation, relationships, and goodwill with customers. Furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible.. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed.. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. The loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our Company. In addition, we could be materially adversely affected if the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increases significantly or we are unsuccessful in attracting, motivating and retaining qualified personnel. Should we lose one or more engineers who are key to a project's completion during the course of a particular. 10. project, the completion of such project may be delayed which could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our critical information systems are subject to cyber-attacks, interruptions and failures.. We rely on several information technology systems to provide products and services, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers, keep financial, employee, and other records, and operate other critical functions. These information technology systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources. Security breaches, including cyber-attacks, phishing attacks or attempts to misappropriate or compromise confidential or proprietary information or sabotage enterprise information technology systems, are becoming increasingly frequent and more sophisticated. We currently have, and are in the process of developing several more, systems and procedures that include, among other things, ongoing internal risk assessments to identify vulnerabilities, an internal group dedicated to reviewing cybersecurity threats, and the adoption of an information security policy. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage networks and systems change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate protections. Despite our efforts to mitigate risks associated with cybersecurity events, our information technology systems may be susceptible to adaptive persistent threats, catastrophic cybersecurity attacks, damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer malware and viruses, telecommunication failures, user errors, or other events. Risks associated with these threats include, but are not limited to, loss of intellectual property, impairment of our ability to conduct our operations, disruption of our customers' operations, loss or damage to our customer data delivery systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate catastrophic cybersecurity events. A prolonged systemic disruption in the information technology systems could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant consequential costs, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, cybersecurity breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our customers, partners, suppliers, or employees which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage.. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by warranty claims and product liability.. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems or other product defects that may affect our customers. Our products are used by a variety of industries, including the automotive and medical industries. Failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. Although we take measures to protect against product defects, if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may impact our ability to compete effectively.. We rely upon know-how, trade secrets, and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. There can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology or reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the United States, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. Periodically, we have been asked by certain prospective customers to provide them with broad licenses to our intellectual property rights in connection with the sale of our products to them. Such licenses, if granted, may have a negative impact on the value of our intellectual property portfolio. Other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we could be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling products that are alleged to be infringing, if such patents are valid and other design and manufacturing solutions are not available. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially reasonable terms or at all.. We may suffer losses and business interruption if our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others.. In the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. Although the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. In any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes in a cost-effective manner to avoid claims of infringement. Any litigation in such a situation could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. 11. We may experience losses related to intellectual property indemnity claims.. We provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. In certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. We cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. To date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. However, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations in the future.. Our independent distributors and sales representatives may underperform relative to our expectations, terminate their relationship with us or fail to make payments on outstanding accounts receivable to us, which would adversely affect our financial results.. A portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our direct control. These independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could underperform for various reasons, including as a result of reducing their sales efforts applied to our products, or terminate their distribution relationship with us. In fiscal 2018, 47% of our revenues were generated from distributors, the largest of which was Avnet, our primary world-wide distributor, which accounted for 25% of our revenues. We require certain foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in an amount up to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. The letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. Where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. We do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not contractually protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. The inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor's initiative, or the general underperformance of a significant distributor could be disruptive and harmful to our current business.. Shortage of raw materials or supply disruption of such raw materials could harm our business.. The semiconductor industry has experienced a large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. As a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, and of subcontract services, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come into short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future.. We purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. If the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. In addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some materials due to disruption of the manufacturer's production. We continually strive to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. However, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our production requirements.. We may be liable for additional production costs and lost revenues to certain customers with whom we have entered into customer supply agreements if we are unable to meet certain product quantity and quality requirements.. We enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. The number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. Should we be unable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired and on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. In addition, the customer may lose revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues. Under certain customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. If products are not shipped on time or are quality deficient, we may be liable for penalties and resulting damages. Such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our relationships with the affected customers, reputation and goodwill.. If we fail to enter into future vendor managed inventory arrangements or fail to supply the specific product or quantity under such arrangements, the results of our operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted.. 12. We enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers (\"OEMs\") and electronic manufacturing services (\"EMS\") partners to consign quantities of certain products within proximity of the OEMs and EMS partners' manufacturing location. The inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the OEM or EMS partner pulls the inventory for use in its manufacturing process. Once the inventory is pulled by the OEM or EMS partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory and recognize revenue and the related cost of goods sold. The specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the OEM or EMS partner. Generally, the arrangements with the OEMs and EMS partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time.. We believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. Should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by OEMs or EMS partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. In addition, should we be unable to supply the specific product in the quantity needed by the OEM or EMS partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including, but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Should we supply product in excess of the OEM or EMS partners' actual usage, any inventory not consumed may become excess or obsolete, which would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations.. Our products may fail to meet new industry standards or requirements and the efforts to meet such industry standards or requirements could be costly.. Many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. Our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. The emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results.. Our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition and consolidation of competitors in our market.. The semiconductor industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years. As a result, we experience intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us, as well as greater technical resources and proprietary intellectual property rights than us. The principal elements of competition include product performance, functional value, quality and reliability, technical service and support, price, diversity of product line, and sale of integrated system solutions which combine the functionality of multiple chips on one chip for a price as part of a complete system solution and delivery capabilities. We believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, although we may be at a disadvantage in comparison to companies with broader product lines, greater technical service and support capabilities and larger research and development budgets. We may be unable to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors and our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition or our inability to timely develop new products to meet the needs of our customers.. Extensions in lead-time for delivery of products could adversely affect our future growth opportunities and results of operations.. Supply constraints, which may include limitations in manufacturing capacity, could impede our ability to grow revenues and meet increased customer demands for our products. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to meet such increase in demand for our products without significantly increasing the lead-time required for our delivery of such products. Any significant increase in the lead-time for delivery of products may negatively affect our customer relationships, reputation as a dependable supplier of products and ability to obtain future design wins, while potentially increasing order cancellations, aged, unsaleable or otherwise unrealized backlog, and the likelihood of our breach of supply agreement terms. Any of the foregoing factors could negatively affect our future revenue growth and results of operations.. Our financial results may be adversely affected by increased tax rates and exposure to additional tax liabilities.. A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including, but not limited to:. • the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed;. 13. • changes in our global structure that involve changes to investment in technology outside of the United States;. • the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities and, in particular, the outcome of the Internal Revenue Service audit of our tax returns for fiscal years 2009-2011 and fiscal years 2012-2014;. • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities;. • adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns;. • increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions;. • changes in available tax credits;. • changes in share-based compensation;. • changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, including laws or rules enacted by countries in response to the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (\"BEPS\") project conducted by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (\"OECD\"); and. • changes in generally accepted accounting principles.. We are subject to taxation in various countries and jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required to determine tax liabilities on a worldwide basis. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. We are subject to a variety of domestic and international laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs on us and may adversely affect our business.. We are subject to numerous U.S. and international laws, rules and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters, including, but not limited to, data privacy and protection, environment, safety and health, exports and imports, bribery and corruption, tax, labor and employment, competition, market access, and intellectual property ownership and infringement. Compliance with these laws, rules and regulations may be onerous and expensive and could restrict our ability to operate our business. If we fail to comply or if we become subject to enforcement activity, we could be subject to fines, penalties or other legal liability. Furthermore, should these laws, rules and regulations be amended or expanded, or new ones enacted, we could incur materially greater compliance costs or restrictions on our ability to operate our business.. Among other laws and regulations, we are subject to the General Data Protection Regulation effective in the European Union, U.S. Customs and Export Regulations, including U.S. International Traffic and Arms Regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by companies and various other aspects of the operation of our business, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws, which prohibit companies from making improper payments to government officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business.. While our Company's policies and procedures mandate compliance with such laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees and agents will always act in strict compliance. If we fail to comply or if we become subject to enforcement activity, we could be subject to fines, penalties or other legal liability. Furthermore, should these laws, rules and regulations be amended or expanded, or new ones enacted, we could incur materially greater compliance costs or restrictions on our ability to operate our business, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. Political conditions could materially affect our revenues and results of operations.. We are subject to the political and legal risks inherent in international operations. Exposure to political instabilities, different business policies and varying legal or regulatory standards, including, but not limited to, international trade disputes, could result in the imposition of tariffs and trade restrictions or barriers, which could impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of customer demand. International trade disputes could also result in various forms of protectionist trade legislation and other protectionist measures that could limit the Company's ability to operate its business and have a negative effect on end-market demand, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We have been impacted by these problems in the past, but none have materially affected our results of operations. Problems in the future or not-yet-. 14. materialized consequences of past problems could affect deliveries of our products to our customers, possibly resulting in substantially delayed or lost sales and/or increased expenses that cannot be passed on to our customers.. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions.. The global economic environment could subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products. Accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. In addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of certain of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. This would further increase our credit risk exposure and potentially cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers.. If economic or market conditions deteriorate globally, in the United States or in other key markets, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price.. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Our operating results have in the past been, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:. • Fluctuations in demand for our products and services;. • Loss of a significant customer or significant customers electing to purchase from another supplier;. • Reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans and associated revenue;. • The level of price and competition in our product markets;. • Our pricing practices, including our use of available information to maximize pricing potential;. • The impact of the uncertain economic and credit environment on our customers, channel partners, and suppliers, including their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures;. • The overall movement toward industry consolidations among our customers and competitors;. • Below industry-average growth of the non-consumer segments of our business;. • Announcements and introductions of new products by our competitors;. • Our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders;. • Deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements (introduced by us or our competitors);. • Our ability to meet increases in customer orders in a timely manner;. • Striking an appropriate balance between short-term execution and long-term innovation;. • Our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements and market acceptance of such new products and enhancements; and. • Our levels of operating expenses.. Our stock price may be volatile.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control.. 15. In addition, the market prices of securities of technology companies, including those in the semiconductor industry, generally have been and remain volatile. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. If our actual operating results or future forecasted results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical operating results, the market price of our common stock may decline. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at a price equal to or higher than the price you paid for them.. Due to the nature of our compensation programs, some of our executive officers sell shares of our common stock each quarter or otherwise periodically, including pursuant to trading plans established under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Regardless of the reasons for such sales, analysts and investors could view such actions in a negative light and the market price of our stock could be adversely affected as a result of such periodic sales.. Material impairments of our goodwill or intangible assets could adversely affect our results of operations.. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if certain impairment indicators arise or upon the disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. The review compares the fair value for each reporting unit to its associated book value including goodwill. A decrease in the fair value associated with a reporting unit resulting from, among other things, unfavorable changes in the estimated future discounted cash flow of the reporting unit, may require us to recognize impairments of goodwill. Our intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, but they are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. If the sum of the future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the intangible asset and its eventual disposition is less than the carrying amount of the asset, we would recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value.. Our debt covenants may limit us from engaging in certain transactions or other activities.. We have entered into debt arrangements that contain certain covenants which may limit the manner in which we conduct our business. For example, the debt indentures that govern our outstanding notes include covenants that, under certain circumstances, limit our ability to grant liens on our facilities and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, which could limit our ability to secure additional debt funding in the future. In circumstances involving a change of control of the Company followed by a downgrade of the rating of the notes, we would be required to make an offer to repurchase the affected notes at a purchase price greater than the aggregate principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Our ability to repurchase the notes in such events may be limited by our then-available financial resources or by the terms of other agreements to which we are a party. Although we currently have the funds necessary to retire this debt, funds might not be available to repay the notes when they become due in the future.. We also have access to a revolving credit facility with certain institutional lenders that contains certain covenants which may limit the manner in which we conduct our business. For example, the credit agreement requires that we maintain a maximum debt to EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio (EBITDA divided by interest expense). We have no outstanding borrowings under the credit facility. We may use the proceeds of any future borrowing under the credit facility for general corporate purposes, or for future acquisitions or expansion of our business.. We are required to comply with the covenants set forth in our debt indentures and credit facility. If we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the note holders or lenders, then, subject to cure periods, any outstanding indebtedness may be declared immediately due and payable.. Environmental, safety and health laws and regulations could force us to expend significant capital and incur substantial costs.. Various foreign and domestic federal, state, and local government agencies impose a variety of environmental, safety and health laws and regulations on the storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. Historically, compliance with these regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive or financial position. There can be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement of current or future environmental, safety and health laws and regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. Any failure by us to adequately control the storage, handling, use, discharge or disposal of regulated substances could result in fines, suspension of production, alteration of wafer fabrication processes and legal liability, which may materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.. Business interruptions from natural disasters could harm our ability to produce products.. 16. We operate our business in worldwide locations. Some of our facilities and those of our subcontractors are located in geologically unstable areas of the world and are susceptible to damage from natural disasters. In the event of a natural disaster, we may suffer a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our financial condition, operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected in the event of a catastrophic loss for which we are self-insured.. We are primarily self-insured with respect to many of our commercial risks and exposures. Based on management's assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is generally more cost effective to self-insure these risks. The risks and exposures we self-insure include, but are not limited to, fire, property and casualty, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, general liability, theft, counterfeits, patent infringement, certain employment practice matters and medical benefits for many of our U.S. employees. Should there be catastrophic loss from events such as fires, explosions, earthquakes, or other natural disasters, among many other risks, or adverse court or similar decisions in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity may be materially adversely affected.. We may pursue acquisitions and investments that could harm our operating results and may disrupt our business.. We have made and will continue to consider making strategic business investments, alliances, and acquisitions we consider necessary or desirable to gain access to key technologies that we believe will complement our existing technical capability and support our business model objectives. Investments, alliances, and acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties that may negatively impact our future financial performance and result in an impairment of goodwill. If integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. We may also need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions.. We also invest in early-to-late stage private companies to further our strategic objectives and support key business initiatives. These strategic investments may not perform as expected. We cannot provide assurance that these companies will operate in a manner that will increase or maintain the value of our investment. If these private companies fail, we may not realize a return on our investments. Thus, all of our investments are subject to a risk of a partial or total loss of investment capital.. Any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. In addition, because acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition.. Exiting certain product lines or businesses, or restructuring our operations, may adversely affect certain customer relationships and produce results that differ from our intended outcomes.. The nature of our business requires strategic changes from time to time, including restructuring our operations and divesting and consolidating certain product lines and businesses. The sale of facilities, or the exiting of certain product lines or businesses, may adversely affect certain customer relationships, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, our ability to timely shut down our facilities or otherwise exit product lines and businesses, or to close or consolidate operations, depends on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If we are unable to shut down a facility or exit a product line or business in a timely manner, or to restructure our operations in a manner we deem to be advantageous, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if the sale of a facility or divestment is successful, we may face indemnity and other liability claims by the acquirer or other parties.. We may be materially adversely affected by currency fluctuations or changes in trade policies, including international trade disputes.. We conduct our manufacturing and other operations in various worldwide locations. A portion of our operating costs and expenses at foreign locations are paid in local currencies. Many of the materials used in our products and much of the manufacturing process for our products are supplied by foreign companies or by our foreign operations, such as our test operations in the Philippines and Thailand. Approximately 88%, 88% and 89% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively, were from international sales. Accordingly, both manufacturing and sales of our products may be adversely affected by political or economic conditions abroad. In addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation are routinely proposed in the United States and certain foreign countries. International trade disputes and changes in trade policies could result in the imposition of tariffs and. 17. trade restrictions, which could adversely affect our foreign manufacturing or marketing strategies and have a negative impact on end-market demand. Currency exchange fluctuations could also decrease revenue and increase our operating costs, the cost of components manufactured abroad, and the cost of our products to foreign customers, or decrease the costs of products produced by our foreign competitors.. Employee health benefit costs may negatively impact our profitability.. With a large number of employees participating in our health benefit plans, our expenses relating to employee health benefits are substantial. In past years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, including, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. While we have attempted to control these costs in recent years, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in controlling such costs in the future. Continued increases in health care costs, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate health and benefit expenses, may adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.. Our certificate of incorporation contains certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our Company.. Our certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors to authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions applicable to such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Any such issuance might discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our Company, which may be considered beneficial to our stockholders.. 18"
