[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed if potentially adverse developments, some of which are described below, materialize and cannot be resolved successfully. In any such case, the market price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock.. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, may also result in decreased revenue, increased expenses or other adverse impacts that could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes.. A substantial percentage of our total revenue depends on the sale of products within a small number of vertical markets and a small number of geographic regions, and the decline in the size of a vertical market or reduction of consumption within a geographic region, without offsetting growth in emerging markets, could impede our growth and profitability.. Sales within a relatively small number of vertical markets and a small number of geographic regions make up a large portion of our revenue. Our ability to grow our sales within this limited number of markets and regions depends on our ability to compete on price, delivery and quality. If a particular market into which we sell experiences a decline, then our customers will decrease their own consumption of our products thereby reducing our revenue. Additionally, a substantial portion of our revenue stems from sales to customers within a limited number of geographic regions including, notably, China and Germany. If certain factors were to arise including, for example, a catastrophic event or shift in economic health and stability within a particular region, then customers within these regions may reduce their consumption of our products resulting in reduced revenue for us. While we have focused efforts targeting growth of product acceptance in other smaller market segments, there can be no assurance that the revenue associated with these emerging markets will be able to fully or partially offset any down turn in the vertical markets where we currently maintain substantial business.. The market for dry battery electrode technology is unproven. Moreover, the successful management of dry battery electrode and other new business lines, new market applications and new product and technology introductions will be necessary for our growth, and such activities could fail to attract or retain customers or generate revenue.. The market for dry battery electrode technology is developing and may not develop as we expect.  The market for new technology such as dry battery electrode technology compared to traditional lithium-ion batteries is new and evolving.  Considering that the market for dry better electrode technology is unproven, it is uncertain whether it will achieve and sustain high levels of demand, consumer acceptance and market adoption in a timely fashion.. Given our position as the technology leader for certain products, solutions and technologies we offer, we have a considerable number of new product and technology concepts in the pipeline, including, among others, dry battery electrode. A critical component of our growth strategy and our future success is dependent upon our ability to effectively and accurately develop and ultimately market our dry battery electrode technology and determine which other new products, applications or technologies to pursue. Pursuing product or technology applications targeted at a specific customer base should enable our products to cross over from a narrower range of acceptance by early technology adopters to acceptance by a majority of customers in the application space. Commercial success frequently depends on being the first provider to identify the applicable market opportunities. Consequently, if we are not able to fund our research and development activities appropriately and deliver our dry battery electrode technology or other new products or technologies which address the needs of the markets we serve on a timely basis, our growth prospects will be harmed. Additionally, we must balance the benefits of gaining market acceptance in new or existing markets with the goal of optimizing growth and profitability. That is, it is critical to ensure that the products, technologies and markets we select for development are aimed at large volume or high profile applications which can provide a significant return on our investment.  If we fail to identify and pursue the appropriate markets for our products and technologies, our growth potential and operating results could be adversely affected.. In addition, we have invested and expect to continue to invest in new lines of business, new products, and other initiatives to generate revenue. The investment into our dry battery electrode technology is a good example. There is no guarantee that investing in new lines of business, new products, and other initiatives will succeed. If we do not successfully develop new approaches to monetization, we may not be able to maintain or grow our revenue as anticipated or recover any associated development costs, and our business could be seriously harmed.. 16. Our failure to develop and introduce new products and applications or enhancements to existing products and applications on a timely basis could harm our ability to attract and retain customers.. Our industry is characterized by rapidly evolving technology, frequent product introductions and ongoing demands for greater performance and functionality. Therefore, we must continually identify, design, develop and introduce new and updated products and applications with improved features to remain competitive. Part of our strategy is to continue to develop and commercialize of our dry battery electrode technology. To introduce dry battery electrode technology and other products and applications on a timely basis we must:. • design innovative and performance-improving features that differentiate our products and applications from those of our competitors;. • identify emerging technological trends in our target markets, including new standards for our products and applications in a timely manner;. • accurately define and design new products and applications to meet market needs;. • anticipate changes in end-user preferences with respect to our customers' products;. • rapidly develop and produce these products and applications at competitive prices;. • anticipate and respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by others; and. • provide effective technical and post-sales support for these new products and applications as they are deployed.. The process of developing dry battery electrode technology, ultracapacitor technology, high-voltage capacitor products and other new technology products and applications and enhancing existing products and applications is complex, costly and uncertain. If we fail to anticipate our customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends, our market share and results of operations could suffer. We must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and applications. If we are unable to extend our core technologies into new applications and new platforms and to anticipate or respond to technological changes, the market's acceptance of our products and applications could decline and our results would suffer. Additionally, any delay in the development, production, marketing or offering of a new product or application or enhancement to an existing product or application could result in customer attrition or impede our ability to attract new customers, causing a decline in our revenues, earnings or stock price and weakening our competitive position. We maintain strategic relationships with third parties to market certain of our products and applications and support certain functionality. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our strategic relationships with these third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace, to reach new customers and geographies or to grow our revenues would be impaired and our operating results would suffer.. To remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, we must introduce and commercialize new products successfully as well as adequately educate our prospective customers on the products we offer.. Our ability to compete successfully depends heavily on our ability to ensure a continuing and timely introduction of innovative new products and technologies to the marketplace. We believe that we are unique in that we are a technology leader for the technologies we deliver and typically must first educate the customer regarding the implementation of our solution in their systems before the customer is capable of designing in our products. As a result, we must make significant investments in research and development efforts, including related to our dry battery electrode technology, as well as sales and marketing efforts, including applications engineering resources. By contrast, many of our competitors, including some which are well capitalized with significant financial resources at their disposal, seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures. Moreover, current producers of lithium-ion batteries that use wet process technology, and companies developing new, alternative technologies or processes, may be developing dry battery electrode technology thereby adding to the number of competitors in the market, many of which are well-capitalized and some of which may be existing partners of ours. If we are unable to continue to develop and sell innovative new products or if we are unable to effectively educate the prospective customer on the value proposition offered by the implementation of our products, then our ability to maintain a competitive advantage could be negatively affected and our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.. 17. Many of our customers are currently the benefactors of government funding or government subsidies.. Our products are currently sold into a limited number of vertical markets, some of which are either directly funded by or partially subsidized with government funding. Our dry battery electrode technology and the use of our ultracapacitor technology in certain applications is still relatively immature, and the costs associated with producing the products is perceived to be high as compared with more mature and readily understood solutions. However, many government entities have determined that they view certain prevailing interests, including, for example, reduction of pollution, to outweigh the economic costs associated with incorporating these clean technologies and therefore are willing to allocate government funding to encourage companies to produce goods which reduce pollution and energy consumption. These markets have and may continue to experience volatility when there are changes or delays in government policies and subsidy programs that support our sales into these markets. For example, over the past year, demand for our ultracapacitors in the China hybrid bus market significantly decreased due to changes in the government subsidy program as well a requirement to localize product manufacturing. Accordingly, in 2017, our sales into this market were not significant. However, to reduce our dependency on China government influences, we established a localized manufacturing partnership with CRRC-SRI, thus positioning the Company for future revenue opportunities. However, despite our efforts, it is uncertain whether our sales into the China hybrid bus market will resume or recover to historical levels.. Similarly, our high-voltage capacitor products are primarily consumed by markets which are either directly funded by or controlled by the respective government bodies in the jurisdictions where our customers do business. For example, our high-voltage capacitor products are largely used for electric utility infrastructures which are largely controlled by the respective governments supplying power and electricity to its populations. If these government entities elect to change their policies on government subsidies or decide to cancel or reduce certain government funding programs, then our customers could cancel or reduce orders for our products.. Uncertainty in the global geopolitical landscape may impede the implementation of our strategy outside the United States.. There may be uncertainty as to the position the United States will take with respect to world affairs and events following recent political and economic developments and related change in political agenda, coupled with the transition of administrations. This uncertainty may include such issues as U.S. support for existing treaty and trade relationships with other countries, including, notably, China. This uncertainty, together with other key global events during 2017 (such as recently enacted currency control regulations in China, the continuing uncertainty arising from the Brexit referendum in the United Kingdom as well as ongoing terrorist activity), may adversely impact (i) the ability or willingness of non-U.S. companies to transact business in the United States, including with us, (ii) our ability to transact business in other countries, (iii) regulation and trade agreements affecting U.S. companies, (iv) global stock markets (including The Nasdaq Global Market on which our common shares are traded), and (v) general global economic conditions. All of these factors are outside of our control, but may nonetheless cause us to adjust our strategy in order to compete effectively in global markets.. There may be changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and governmental policy due to recent elections in the United States.. The recent presidential and congressional elections in the United States have resulted and may continue to result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy. While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such additional changes will occur, changes at the local, state or federal level could impact fuel cell market adoption in the U.S. and the alternative energy technologies sector in the U.S., generally. Specific legislative and regulatory proposals that could have a material impact on us include, but are not limited to, infrastructure renewal programs; and modifications to international trade policy, such as approvals by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States; public company reporting requirements; environmental regulation and antitrust enforcement.. The U.S. tax reform legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, was recently enacted, and we continue to analyze the implications of this new legislation.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed U.S. tax reform legislation, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The legislation significantly changes U.S. tax law by, among other things, reducing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, implementing a territorial tax system and imposing a repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. While we have recorded a provisional decrease related to our deferred tax assets and liabilities of $34.7M with a corresponding adjustment to our valuation allowance for the year ended December 31, 2017, we are still analyzing certain aspects of this legislation and refining our calculations, which could potentially affect the measurement of these balances or potentially give rise to new deferred tax amounts. Moreover, there can be no assurances that this new tax reform legislation will have a favorable impact to us.. 18. We may not be successful in growing through acquisitions or integrating effectively any businesses and operations we may acquire.. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing customer demands, technology, and competitive pressures as well as entry into new vertical markets. In 2017, we completed our acquisition of substantially all of the assets and business of Nesscap Energy, Inc. (\"Nesscap\"), which acquisition included complementary businesses providing for the expansion of our portfolio of products. We do not know if we will be able to complete any future acquisitions or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired businesses, operate them profitably, or retain their key employees.. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from any future acquisitions or realize any other anticipated benefits. In addition, there can be no assurance that the due diligence undertaken in connection with an acquisition will uncover all liabilities relating to the acquired business. Nor can there be any assurance that our profitability will be improved as a result of acquisitions. Any acquisition may involve operating risks, such as:. • the difficulty of assimilating the acquired operations and personnel and integrating them into our current business;. • the potential impairment of employee morale;. • the potential disruption of our ongoing business;. • preserving important strategic and customer relationships;. • the diversion of management's attention and other resources;. • the risks of entering markets in which we have little or no experience;. • the possibility that acquisition-related liabilities that we incur or assume may prove to be more burdensome than anticipated;. • the risks associated with possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act of 2010, and other anti-corruption laws as a result of any acquisition or otherwise applicable to our business; and. • the possibility that any acquired businesses do not perform as expected.. Our acquisition integration and restructuring and reorganization activities could result in management distractions, operational disruptions and other difficulties.. In the past, we have initiated restructuring and reorganization activities in an effort to improve operational efficiency, and such efforts are expected to continue in the future. These actions are intended to better align our cost structure with near-term revenue, and also to improve engineering and operational efficiencies throughout the organization. Additional reductions-in-force or reorganizations may be required as we continue to realign our business organization, operations and product lines.. While we have made significant progress in our efforts to integrate manufacturing and other operations with the acquired business of Nesscap, we are continuing these integration efforts, and they may not be successful. For example, we may encounter issues with integrating the prior management style and workplace culture of Nesscap to be more aligned with our view of management and workplace culture. We may encounter issues with the transition of products delivered to our customers from the higher cost solutions, either from our legacy facilities or Nesscap's facility, as the case may be, to the integrated cost efficient solutions. Such difficulties, even if managed correctly, could result in delays in the actual integration of our manufacturing operations and therefore a delay in realizing anticipated reductions in expenses. Any restructuring efforts could also disrupt our ability to supply products to customers, detriment relationships with customers and other business partners, divert the attention of management away from other priorities, harm our reputation, expose us to increased risk of legal claims by terminated employees, increase our expenses, increase the workload placed upon remaining employees and cause employees to lose confidence in our future performance and decide to leave. In addition, if we continue to reduce our workforce, it may adversely impact our ability to respond rapidly to new growth opportunities or to remain competitive. Further, employees whose positions were or will be eliminated in connection with these restructuring activities or who otherwise determine to leave may seek employment with our competitors, customers or suppliers. Although each of our employees is required to sign a confidentiality agreement with us at the time of employment, which agreement contains covenants prohibiting, among other things, the disclosure or use of our confidential information and the solicitation of our employees, we cannot guarantee that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment, or that our key continuing employees will not be solicited to terminate their employment with us. We cannot guarantee that any restructuring activities undertaken in the future will be successful, or that we will be able to realize the anticipated cost savings and other anticipated benefits from our restructuring plans.. 19. We may not be able to obtain sufficient capital to meet our operating or other needs, which could require us to change our business strategy and result in decreased profitability and a loss of customers.. In 2017, we issued Senior Convertible Notes due in 2022 for net proceeds of $43.0 million. While we believe this funding will be sufficient to support our operations and investment priorities in the near-term, we believe that in the future we may need a substantial amount of additional capital for a number of potential purposes in furtherance of our strategic missions and growth objectives. Namely, the development of dry battery electrode technology requires a substantial amount of capital. Moreover, to meet potential growth in demand for our products, particularly for our ultracapacitor products, we will need significant resources for customized production equipment. Further, additional capital may be required to execute on our strategies related to continued expansion into commercial markets, development of new products and technologies, and acquisitions of new or complementary businesses, product lines or technologies. While we currently have a credit facility with East West Bank, this facility is scheduled to expired in July 2018, and it is uncertain whether we will be able to renew this facility on favorable terms. We also must comply with certain conditions, including, notably, certain financial covenants, in order to have access to such funds. If adequate funds are not available when needed, we may be required to change or delay our planned growth, which could result in decreased revenue and profits and loss of customers. Also, if we are to raise additional funds by issuing equity, the issuance of additional shares will result in dilution to our current stockholders. If additional financing is accomplished by the issuance of additional debt, the service cost, or interest, will reduce net income or increase net loss, and we may also be required to issue warrants to purchase shares of common stock in connection with issuing such debt.. The sale of our 5.50% Senior Convertible Notes due 2022 significantly increased our amount of long-term debt, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not efficiently manage our liabilities.. In September 2017, we issued $40.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 5.50% Senior Convertible Notes due in 2022 (the \"Notes\") and an additional $6.0 million of Notes upon exercise of the initial purchaser's option in October 2017. As a result of the sale of the Notes, we have a substantial amount of long-term debt. Our maintenance of such debt could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, there are a large number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon the potential conversion of our Notes and the issuance of these shares may depress the market price of our common stock.. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt.. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations.. The conditional conversion feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Notes is triggered, holders of Notes will be entitled to convert the Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital.. 20. Downward pressures on product pricing or changes to our product mix could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results, and such pressures or changes could even result in loss of revenue in exchange for avoidance of gross margin pressures.. We strive to manage gross margin for the products we sell. There can be no assurance that targeted gross margin percentage levels will be achieved.  In general, gross margins will remain under downward pressure due to increased competition as well as a potential shift in our sales mix to lower margin business. For example, if we increase sales of our products into markets which traditionally have lower margin rates than our current business, such as the automotive market, we may be forced to reduce our margins to remain competitive. Further, we are beginning to experience significant downward pricing pressure in the Chinese hybrid transit vehicle market, which has historically represented a significant portion of our sales, as a result of changes in the government subsidy program and other market factors. If our cost reduction efforts do not keep pace with these price pressures, or if we continue to pursue certain vertical markets and reduce our margins to maintain or increase sales, then we could experience degradation in our overall profit margins. In addition, gross margins could be negatively impacted by an increase in raw materials, components and labor costs, or by changes to our product mix.. Unfavorable results of legal proceedings and regulatory investigations could materially adversely affect us.. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved, and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and could cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. From time to time, we are involved in major lawsuits concerning intellectual property, torts, contracts, shareholder litigation, administrative and regulatory proceedings and other matters, as well as governmental inquiries and investigations, the outcomes of which may be significant to our results of operations and may limit our ability to engage in our business activities. In recognition of these considerations, we may enter into material settlements to avoid ongoing costs and efforts in defending or pursuing a matter. Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. While we have insurance related to our business operations, it may not apply to or fully cover any liabilities we incur as a result of these lawsuits. We record reserves for potential liabilities where we believe the liability to be probable and reasonably estimable. However, our actual costs may be materially different from these estimates.. For example, as articulated in Item 3 - Legal Proceedings, we have several pending legal matters in the form of both government and regulatory investigations. In early 2013, we voluntarily provided information to the Enforcement Division of the SEC related to our announcement that we intended to file restated financial statements for fiscal years 2011 and 2012. On June 11, 2015 and June 16, 2016, we received subpoenas from the SEC requesting certain documents related to, among other things, the facts and circumstances surrounding the restated financial statements. We have provided documents and information to the SEC in response to the subpoenas. We entered into a tolling agreement with the SEC effective for the period beginning on September 12, 2016, and currently running through March 2, 2018. We are cooperating with the investigation and recently made an offer of settlement to resolve the matter, which is subject to approval by the SEC Commissioners. The proposed settlement would be entered into by the Company without admitting or denying the SEC's findings and would resolve alleged violations of certain anti-fraud and books and records provisions of the federal securities laws and related rules. Under the terms of the proposed settlement, we would pay $2.8 million in a civil penalty and agree not to commit or cause any violations of certain anti-fraud and books and records provisions of the federal securities laws and related rules. There is no assurance that the proposal will be approved by the SEC Commissioners.. Further, the Swiss federal prosecutor initiated an investigation into the Company in 2013 for actions which we believe are related to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (\"FCPA\") investigation previously settled with the SEC and Department of Justice (\"DOJ\") in 2011. At this time, the Company continues to cooperate with the Swiss prosecutor and while there continues to be no resolution of this matter, the incurrence of excessive fines in accordance with Swiss bribery laws could occur and have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operation. .. Additionally, these legal matters could be both time-consuming and disruptive to our business and our reputation could be harmed as a result of the allegations asserted in public statements and court documents throughout the course of the action. Consequently, our financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected.. 21. Activist stockholders may attempt to effect changes to our company, which could adversely affect our corporate governance, results of operations and financial condition.. Campaigns by stockholders to effect changes at publicly traded companies are sometimes led by investors through various corporate actions, including Board nominations and proxy contests. We may become subject to one or more campaigns by stockholders who desire to increase stockholder value in the short term. If we become engaged in a proxy contest with an activist stockholder in the future, our business and operations could be adversely affected as responding to such contests or other activist stockholder actions would be costly and time-consuming, and we would expect that such actions would disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees from executing our strategic plans and product launch. In addition, if individuals are elected to our Board with a specific agenda or without relevant experience or expertise, it may adversely affect the ability of the Board to function effectively, as well as our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic plans, which are focused on building shareholder value. Any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction as a result of stockholder activism or changes to the composition of our Board may lead to the perception of a change in the direction of our business and instability or lack of continuity with respect to our products which may cause concerns for our customers or be exploited by our competitors. As a result, we could experience significant volatility and a decline of our stock price, the loss of potential business opportunities and difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel and customers. For example, we entered into an amended and restated settlement agreement with an activist stockholder in September 2017 pursuant to which, among other things, we agreed to keep the authorized number of our Board of Director's at eight (8) members through the conclusion of the 2018 Annual Meeting. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to additional campaigns by the same or other stockholders now or in the future.. Our business is subject to risks related to its international operations, including risks related to changing rules and regulations in countries where our business is conducted.. We derive a significant portion of our revenue and earnings from international operations. Such operations outside the U.S. are subject to special risks and restrictions, including: fluctuations in currency values and foreign currency exchange rates, import and export requirements and trade policy, anti-corruption laws, tax laws (including U.S. and foreign taxes on foreign subsidiaries), foreign exchange controls, cash repatriation restrictions, tax implications on inter-company arrangements, data privacy requirements, labor laws, anti-competition regulations, and other potentially detrimental domestic and foreign governmental practices or policies affecting U.S. companies doing business abroad. Compliance with these U.S. and foreign laws and regulations increases the costs of doing business in foreign jurisdictions and these costs may continue to increase in the future as a result of changes in such laws and regulations or in their interpretation. Furthermore, we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies. Any violations of rules and regulations could individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. Some of our business partners also have international operations and are subject to the risks described above. Even if we are able to successfully manage the risks of international operations, our business may be adversely affected if our business partners are not able to successfully manage these risks.. Our success could be negatively impacted if we fail to control, oversee and direct foreign subsidiaries and their operations.. We currently own foreign subsidiaries located within Europe and Asia where the employees and cultures represent certain vast differences from employees and cultures within the United States where our corporate headquarters is situated. While the cultural values and philosophies of the people located in Europe and portions of Asia are generally viewed to be in alignment with that of U.S. persons, there are still some significant differences. For example, the respective European data privacy laws take a harsher position regarding the protection of employee personal data and, consequently, there is less information shared with the U.S. parent corporation regarding employees working for our European subsidiaries. Additionally, the human resources and the systems our foreign entities use can be vastly different; notably, our Swiss, Korean, German, and Chinese subsidiaries utilize a primary language other than English for communications. Having substantial international operations also increases the complexity of managing our financial reporting and internal controls and procedures. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, it could negatively impact our operating performance and our reputation.. 22. Our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates arising from international operations could harm our financial condition and operating results.. As a result of our extensive international operations and significant revenue generated outside the U.S., the dollar amount of our current and future revenue, expenses and debt may be materially affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to non-U.S. dollar denominated sales in Europe as well as non-U.S. dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, and generally could lead us to raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for our products. In some circumstances, due to competition or other reasons, we may decide not to raise local prices to the full extent to offset unfavorable exchange rate fluctuations, or at all, which would adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency denominated sales and earnings. Conversely, a strengthening of foreign currencies, while generally beneficial to our foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, could cause us to realize a reduction in our overall gross margin as the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency-denominated expenses increases. In an effort to minimize volatility in our statement of operations from transactions denominated in foreign currencies, we employ efforts to maintain our significant operating activities in the local currencies of our each of our operating entities, and minimize activities in non-local currencies for which foreign currency exchange rate changes would impact our operating results, however, we cannot assure that our efforts will be successful.. As a result of the recent inflation in the value of the Swiss Franc against many other currencies, the prices for our high-voltage products, which are denominated primarily in Swiss Francs, became less affordable to customers that trade in these other currencies. This may result in a decrease in sales of our high-voltage products, or we could be required to reduce our prices, and thereby our profit margins, to maintain our market share.. Our business activities are subject to the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws. If we fail to comply with anti-bribery laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties as well as further expenses related to an additional internal investigation.. Due to our status as a U.S. issuer, we are subject to the FCPA, which prohibits companies from making, promising or offering improper payments or other things of value to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or a business advantage. In January 2011, we reached settlements with the SEC and DOJ with respect to charges asserted regarding certain payments made to an independent third-party sales agent in China for our high-voltage capacitor products produced by our Swiss subsidiary, Maxwell SA. As a result, we were required to pay monetary fines totaling $14.4 million, and to implement additional remedial measures to strengthen our compliance program concerning anti-bribery.. Due to our operations in Switzerland, we are subject to Swiss anti-bribery regulations. In August 2013, our Swiss subsidiary was served with a search warrant from the Swiss federal prosecutor's office. Based upon our exposure to the case, we believe this action to be related to the same or similar facts and circumstances as the FCPA action previously settled with the SEC and the DOJ. At this time, the Company continues to cooperate with the Swiss prosecutor and while there continues to be no resolution of this matter, the incurrence of excessive fines in accordance with Swiss bribery laws could occur and have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operation.. We depend upon component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided by third parties, many of whom are located outside of the U.S.. Substantially all of our components and products are manufactured in whole or in part by a few third-party manufacturers. Many of these manufacturers are located outside of the U.S. and are all located within a relatively small geographic location. If a catastrophic event occurs within this area, or the social or economic conditions shift within this geography, we could experience business interruptions, delayed delivery of products, or other adverse impacts to our ongoing business. We have also outsourced much of our transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements may lower operating costs, they also reduce our direct control over production and distribution. Such diminished control could have an adverse effect on the quality or quantity of our products as well as our flexibility to respond to changing conditions. In addition, we rely on third-party manufacturers to adhere to the terms and conditions of the agreements in place with each party. For example, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, we may remain responsible to the customer for warranty service in the event of product defects. Any unanticipated product defect or warranty liability, whether pursuant to arrangements with contract manufacturers or otherwise, could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results.. 23. Our success as a reliable supplier to our customers is highly dependent upon our ability to effectively manage our reliance upon certain suppliers of key component parts, finished goods and specialty equipment.. Because we currently obtain certain key components including, but not limited to binder, separator, paper, aluminum piece parts, die, printed circuit boards and certain finished goods, including, notably, ultracapacitor finished goods, from single or limited sources, we are subject to significant supply and pricing risks. If the particular supplier is unable to provide the appropriate quantity and/or quality of the raw material or the finished goods at the prices required, then we will be unable to produce and deliver our goods to customers, thereby losing out on revenue generation and, potentially, incurring penalties for failing to timely perform. For example, a substantial portion of our revenue is generated from finished goods supplied to us from a single contract manufacturer. If this contract manufacturer is unable to supply the finished goods to us to meet our customer demand, then we could be forced to decline acceptance of customer orders, which could lead to, among other things, a reputation that we are an unreliable supplier and a decline in future demand for our products.  Additionally, if we are not aware of potential constraints upon our contract manufacturer for these finished goods before we enter into binding supply commitments with our own customers, then we could be required to pay damages to the customers.  While we have established mitigation strategies to attempt to minimize the likelihood and impact of an inability to supply finished goods due to supplier constraints, we cannot be certain that such mitigation strategies will eliminate an adverse effect to our financial condition.. Additionally, we use some custom components that are not common to the rest of the industries served by our suppliers and which are often available from only one source. Also, when a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the particular supplier's yield has matured or manufacturing capacity has increased. Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those suppliers decide to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet our unique requirements. If the supply of a key single-sourced component for a new or existing product were delayed or constrained, if such components were available only at significantly higher prices, or if a key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments of completed products to us, then our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.. Conversely, diversifying our supplier base to ensure that we have multiple suppliers for each key raw material typically involves additional costs including, but not limited to: higher prices for the raw materials as a direct consequence of purchasing lower volumes from each supplier; additional costs associated with qualifying additional suppliers; and increased resource expense in managing an additional supplier for factors including quality, timely delivery and other standards. If we fail to balance the interests between the reliance upon a single supplier and expense associated with diversifying the supply chain base, then our actual gross profit could fail to meet our targets.. Competition in the energy storage domain has significantly affected, and will continue to affect, our sales.. Many companies are engaged in or are starting to engage in designing, developing and producing energy storage solutions as a consequence of the movement towards clean energy solutions in both the commercial and public sectors. Consequently, more companies are pursuing opportunities in the energy storage domain and are beginning to compete in the markets in which we do business. The success of these new competitors could render our products less competitive, resulting in reduced sales compared with our expectations or past results. Certain companies which recently initiated efforts to enter the markets in which we do business, including, notably, in China, possess greater access to capital resources or utilize different product development strategies which vary in both time to market and innovation methodologies. Consequently, these companies could develop products that are superior to ours, more competitively priced than ours or faster to market than ours. Additionally, significant amounts of U.S. government funds are being invested in the development of batteries with better performance characteristics or lower manufacturing costs than battery technologies currently on the market and, consequently, these new, advanced batteries that include power delivery functionality could compete for market share with our dry battery electrode technology or ultracapacitor products. Moreover, as the market leader for certain markets for energy storage, competitors often follow our lead in the advancement of technologies for energy storage or customers attempt to facilitate second sources of comparable products, thereby requiring us to innovate rapidly in order to continue to serve as the market leader. The success of the technologies and products offered by our competitors could reduce our market share, thereby negatively impacting our financial results.. 24. Our success depends largely on the acquisition of, as well as the continued availability and service of, key personnel.. Much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including our chief executive officer and senior executive management team as well as highly-skilled employees in technical, marketing and staff positions. Due to the complexity and immaturity of the technologies involved in the products we produce and the markets we serve, we may be unable to find the right personnel with the background needed to serve our goals and objectives. As a market leader for the technologies we develop, there are limited opportunities to hire personnel from competitors or other technology companies with substantial background and experience in our technology fields. Consequently, we seek to hire individuals who are capable of performing well in an environment with limited resources and references to past experiences. We may struggle to find such talented personnel who also thrive in a high growth business atmosphere and who are capable of keeping pace with the rapidly changing environment encouraged by the technologies we create and the markets we serve. These uniquely talented personnel are in high demand in the technology industry and competition for acquiring such individuals is intense. Some of our scientists and engineers are the key developers of our products and technologies and are recognized as leaders in their area of expertise. Without attracting and retaining personnel with the appropriate skill sets, we could fail to maintain our technological and competitive advantage.. Our products and services may experience quality or implementation problems from time to time that could result in decreased sales and operating margin, and could tarnish our reputation.. Our dry battery electrode technology is new, and our ultracapacitor products also represent a relatively new technology, in each case which could contain defects in design or manufacture, or could be implemented incorrectly in the end use application. As a direct consequence of the introduction of new features for our technology as well as new implementations by our customer base, we are still learning about the potential quality issues that could arise during operation in certain applications. Consequently, we are not always capable of anticipating the quality or implementation problems which the products may experience in the field. Products sold into high performance environments such as heavy transportation, automotive markets or grid infrastructure installations could experience additional operating characteristics that could unexpectedly interfere with the intended operation of our products. For example, if the end use application is in an environment which subjects the products to levels of vibration above our internal design and qualification levels, then the products could fail to achieve the customer's performance requirements. With this sometimes limited understanding of the application and operation of our products in varying end user implementations, our customers may perceive our products as exhibiting quality problems, which could harm our reputation. We strive to respond quickly in addressing the concerns of our customers by modifying our products and assisting our customers in designing new implementation or installation strategies to achieve higher performance characteristics or to satisfy new or modified applications of our products. As such, the release time of next generation products or application solutions can be relatively quick, and we may assume additional risks associated with expediting the release of new or modified products.. We are also building our infrastructure to adequately and efficiently handle any potential recall and the reverse logistics involved in returning our products to our facilities in the event that any defects are found. There can be no assurance that we will be able to detect and fix all defects in the products we sell or will be able to efficiently handle all issues related to product returns or implementation concerns. As we continue to pursue additional vertical markets, we are gaining a better understanding of certain business practices of these markets with respect to potential product recalls. For example, certain portions of the transportation industry are sensitive to product recall issues as they relate to both government regulations as well as customer satisfaction and safety. Failure to successfully prevent a defect in our products which prompts a recall or a failure to successfully manage expenses associated with any recalls could cause lost revenue, harm to our reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses, and result in an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results.. 25. Efforts to protect our intellectual property rights and to defend claims against us could increase our costs and will not always succeed; any failures could adversely affect sales and profitability and restrict our ability to do business.. Intellectual property (\"IP\") rights are crucial to maintaining our competitive advantage and growing our business. We endeavor to obtain and protect our IP rights which we feel will allow us to retain or advance our competitive advantage in the marketplace. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to adequately identify and protect the portions of IP which are strategic to our business, including, without limitation, IP related to dry battery electrode technology which remains under development and a key part of our strategy. Generally, when strategic IP rights are identified, we will seek formal protection in jurisdictions in which our products are produced or used, jurisdictions in which competitors are producing or importing their products, and jurisdictions into which our products are imported. Different nations may provide limited rights and inconsistent duration of protection for our products. Additionally, we may be unable to obtain protection for or defend our IP in key jurisdictions. For example, the patent prosecution and enforcement system within China is less mature than the systems in other jurisdictions and therefore we may be more limited in our ability to enforce our rights. This disadvantage would likely be compounded by the challenge of any enforcement attempts by us as a foreign entity seeking protection against a Chinese company infringing on our IP in China.. Even if protection is obtained, competitors or others in the chain of commerce may raise legal challenges to our rights or illegally infringe our rights, including through means that may be difficult to prevent or detect. For example, a certain portion of our IP portfolio is related to unique process steps performed during the manufacture of our products which are not readily recognizable in the physical embodiment of the final product. It may be difficult to identify and prove that a competitor is infringing on our rights to such process steps. Further, we are required to divulge certain of our IP to our business partners to enable them to provide quality products or raw materials to us or enable the exploitation and success of strategic partnerships. To the extent that such disclosure occurs in China or other jurisdictions in which the ability to protect IP is more limited, existing or new competitors in this region could begin to use our IP in the development of their own products, which could reduce our competitive edge. Even in jurisdictions in which IP is highly valued, and therefore protected, the financial burden of asserting or defending our IP rights could prove to be cost prohibitive for us thereby putting us in a position in which we must sacrifice our competitive edge.. In addition, because of the rapid pace of technology advancements, and the confidentiality of patent applications in some jurisdictions, competitors may be issued patents stemming from pending patent applications that were unknown to us prior to issuance of the patents. This could reduce the value of our commercial or pipeline products or, to the extent they cover key technologies on which we have unknowingly relied, require that we seek to obtain a license or cease using the technology, no matter how valuable to our business. We may not be able to obtain such a license on acceptable terms. The extent to which we succeed or fail in our efforts to protect our IP will affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our inability to effectively identify, enter into, manage and benefit from strategic alliances, may limit our ability to pursue certain growth objectives and/or strategies.. Our reputation is important to our growth and success. As a leader in an emerging technology industry, we recognize the value in identifying, selecting and managing key strategic alliances. We are mainly focusing our business on the specific products we deliver and pursuit of strategic alliances with other companies could allow us to provide customers with integrated or other new products, services, or technology advancements derived from the alliances. To be successful, we must first be able to define and identify opportunities which align with our growth plan. Additionally, we cannot be certain that our alliance partners will provide us with the support we anticipate, that such alliance or other relationships will be successful in advancing technology, or that any alliances or other relationships will be successful in manufacturing and marketing new or improved products. Our success is also highly dependent upon our ability to manage the respective parameters of all strategic alliances, promote the benefits to us, and to not prohibit or discourage other opportunities which may be beneficial to us in the future. Also, certain provisions of alliance agreements may include restrictions that limit our ability to independently pursue or exploit the developments under such strategic alliances. Currently, we have alliances with several partners both in the U.S. and throughout the world. We anticipate that future alliances may also be with foreign partners or entities. As a result, such alliances may be subject to the political climate and economies of the foreign countries where such partners reside and operate. If the strategic alliances we pursue are not successful, our business and prospects could be negatively affected.. 26. Should a catastrophic event or other significant business interruption occur at any of our facilities, we could face significant reconstruction or remediation costs, penalties, third-party liability and loss of production capacity, which could adversely affect our business.. Weather conditions, natural disasters or other catastrophic events could cause significant disruptions in operations, including, specifically, disruptions at our manufacturing facilities or those of our major suppliers or customers. In turn, the quality, cost and volumes of the products we produce and sell could be unexpectedly, negatively affected, which will impact our sales and profitability. Natural disasters or industrial accidents could also damage our manufacturing facilities or infrastructure, or those of our major suppliers or major customers, which could affect our costs, production volumes and demand for our products. However, we have implemented certain mitigation strategies to ensure that certain components and processes involved in the manufacture of our component materials and finished goods are somehow temporarily available so as to reduce the impact of such a catastrophic event.. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on us, our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing partners and customers. Our business operations could be subject to interruption by power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond our control. Such events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to produce and deliver products to our customers, or to receive components from our suppliers, thereby creating delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, and disruptions in the operations of our manufacturing partners and component suppliers. The majority of our research and development activities, our corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing partners, are in locations that could be affected by natural disasters. In the event of a natural disaster, losses could be incurred and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. While we may purchase insurance policies to cover the direct economic impact experienced following a natural disaster occurring at one of our own facilities, there can be no assurance that such insurance policies will cover the full extent of our financial loss nor will they cover losses which are not economic in nature such as, for example, our business and reputation as a reliable supplier.. We may be subject to information technology systems failures, network disruptions, breaches in data security and computer crime and cyber-attacks.. Information technology system failures, network disruptions, breaches of data security and sophisticated and targeted computer crime and cyber-attacks could disrupt our operations by impeding the manufacture or shipment of products, the processing of transactions or reporting of financial results, or by causing an unintentional disclosure of confidential information. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data in our data centers and on our networks, including IP, proprietary business information, and personal information of our business partners and employees. Despite our efforts to protect sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors that could potentially lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations. While management has taken steps to address these concerns by employee training, implementing certain data and system redundancy, hardening and fail-over along with other network security, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, maintenance of backup and protective systems and other internal control measures, there can be no assurance that the measures we have implemented to date would be sufficient in the event of a system failure, loss of data or security breach. As a result, in the event of such a failure, loss of data or security breach, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.. 27. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including IP, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disruption of our operations and the services we provide to customers, and damage to our reputation, which could adversely affect our financial results and competitive position.. Our ability to match our production plans for our ultracapacitor products to the level of product actually demanded by customers has a significant effect on our sales, costs and growth potential.. Customers' decisions are affected by market, economic and government regulation conditions which can be difficult to accurately gauge in advance. In addition, many of the markets for our ultracapacitor products are within emerging industries as well as within project-oriented business models and, as such, it can be difficult to predict our future customer demand. Failure to provide customers and channel partners with demanded quantities of our products could reduce our sales. Conversely, increased capacity which exceeds actual customer demands for our products increases our costs and, consequently, reduces our profit margins on the products delivered. Although we have implemented policies and procedures for refining our forecasting methods, including a more sophisticated mechanism for gauging the sales pipeline to better project timing of new customer demand, there can be no assurance that these policies and procedures will provide accurate intelligence to align our production plans with customer demands. As a result of all of these factors, we could fail to meet revenue or profit margin targets.. Our reputation could be damaged as a result of negative publicity due to the restatement of prior periods financial statements contained within our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, and the underlying business causes of such restatement.. We depend upon our reputation to compete for customers, suppliers, investors, strategic partners and personnel. Unfavorable publicity can damage our reputation and negatively impact our economic performance. Our restatement of our prior periods financial statements contained within our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, and the underlying business causes of such restatement, could damage our reputation. For example, in June 2015 and June 2016, the Company received subpoenas from the SEC requesting certain documents related to, among other things, the facts and circumstances surrounding the restated financial statements. The Company has provided documents and information to the SEC in response to the subpoenas. We entered into a tolling agreement with the SEC effective for the period beginning on September 12, 2016, and currently running through March 2, 2018.  We are cooperating with the investigation and recently made an offer of settlement to resolve the matter, which is subject to approval by the SEC Commissioners. The proposed settlement would be entered into by the Company without admitting or denying the SEC's findings and would resolve alleged violations of certain anti-fraud and books and records provisions of the federal securities laws and related rules. Under the terms of the proposed settlement, we would pay $2.8 million in a civil penalty and agree not to commit or cause any violations of certain anti-fraud and books and records provisions of the federal securities laws and related rules. However, we cannot ensure that the ultimate outcome of this investigation will align with this proposed settlement, and there can also be no assurance that unfavorable publicity arising from this matter will not have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our ability to use our tax net operating loss carryforwards is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income, and the absence of significant ownership changes to our common stock.. As of December 31, 2017, we had U.S. federal tax and state tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $219.0 million and $37.7 million, respectively. Realization of any benefit from our tax net operating losses is dependent on both our ability to generate future taxable income before our net operating loss carryforwards expire, as well as the absence of certain \"ownership changes\" to our common stock. An \"ownership change,\" as defined in the applicable federal income tax rules, would place significant limitations, on an annual basis, on the use of such net operating losses to offset any future taxable income we may generate. The issuance of shares of our common stock, including the issuance of shares of common stock upon future conversion or exercise of outstanding stock options, could cause such an \"ownership change.\" Such limitations triggered by an \"ownership change,\" in conjunction with the net operating loss expiration provisions, could effectively eliminate our ability to use a substantial portion of our net operating loss carryforwards to offset any future taxable income.. 28. Our stock price continues to be volatile.. Our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility due to a number of factors, including but not limited to the various factors set forth in this \"Risk Factors\" section, as well as variations between our actual and anticipated financial results, announcements by us or our competitors, and uncertainty about future global economic conditions. The stock market as a whole also has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies' operating performance. Furthermore, we believe our stock price may reflect certain future growth and profitability expectations. If we fail to meet these expectations, our stock price may significantly decline which could have an adverse impact on investor confidence and employee retention.. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could prevent certain transactions and could make a takeover more difficult.. Some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire control of us, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. We have a classified board of directors, which means that our directors are divided into three classes that are elected to three-year terms on a staggered basis. Since the three-year terms of each class overlap the terms of the other classes of directors, the entire board of directors cannot be replaced in any one year. Furthermore, our certificate of incorporation contains a \"fair price provision\" which may require a potential acquirer to obtain the consent of our board to any business combination involving us. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws also contain provisions barring stockholder action by written consent unless first approved by a majority of the disinterested directors, and the calling by stockholders of a special meeting. Amendment of such provisions requires a super majority vote by the stockholders, except with the consent of the board of directors and a majority of the disinterested directors in certain circumstances. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay, deter or prevent a merger, tender offer, or other business combination or change in control involving us that stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. This includes offers or attempted takeovers that could result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their shares of our common stock."
