[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued). As of December 31, 2017, National had $3.4 billion of gross insured par outstanding ($3.9 billion of gross insured par outstanding when including accreted interest on insured capital appreciation bonds) related to Puerto Rico. Puerto Rico may be unable or unwilling to pay their obligations as and when due, in which case National would be required to pay claims of unpaid principal and interest when due under its insurance policies, which could be material. Prior to 2017, National paid claims on defaulted Puerto Rico debt in the amount of $173 million. Puerto Rico defaulted on scheduled debt service for National insured bonds and National paid gross claims in the aggregate of $242 million during 2017. On January 1, 2018, Puerto Rico also defaulted on scheduled debt service for National insured bonds and National paid gross claims in the aggregate of $69 million. While National will seek to recover any claim payments it makes under its guarantees, there is no assurance that it will be able to recover such payments. To the extent that its claims payments are ultimately substantially greater than its claims recoveries, National would experience losses on those obligations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Refer to the \"U.S. Public Finance Insurance Puerto Rico Exposures\" section in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K for additional information on our Puerto Rico exposures.. Loss reserve estimates and credit impairments are subject to additional uncertainties and loss reserves may not be adequate to cover potential claims.. Our insurance companies issued financial guarantee policies that insure the financial performance of the obligations guaranteed over an extended period of time, in some cases over more than 30 years, and which are unconditional and irrevocable. Under substantially all of our policies, we do not have a right to cancel the policy. We do not use actuarial approaches that are customarily used by other types of insurance companies to determine our loss reserves. The establishment of the appropriate level of loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving numerous assumptions, estimates and subjective judgments by management, and therefore, there can be no assurance that future net claims in our insured portfolio will not exceed our loss reserves. If our loss reserves are not adequate to cover actual losses, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We use financial models to project future net claims on our insured portfolio, including insured credit derivatives, and to establish loss reserves and estimate impairments and related recoveries. There can be no assurance that the future loss projection and impairments based on these models will ultimately reflect the actual losses and impairment and recovery that we experience. Additionally, small changes in the assumptions underlying these estimates could significantly impact loss expectations. For example, our loss reserves are discounted to a net present value reflecting our general obligation to pay claims over time and not on an accelerated basis. Risk-free rates are used to discount our loss reserves under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., and the yield-to-maturity of each insurer's investment fixed-income portfolio (excluding cash and cash equivalents and other investments not intended to defease long-term liabilities) as of year-end is used to discount each insurer's loss reserves under statutory accounting principles. Accordingly, changes in the risk-free rates or the yield in our insurance companies' fixed-income investment portfolios may materially impact loss reserves.. Political and economic conditions in the United States, the Eurozone and elsewhere may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.. As a financial guarantee company, our insured exposures and our results of operations can be materially affected by general political and economic conditions, both in the U.S. and around the world. General global unrest, fraud, terrorism, catastrophic events, natural disasters, pandemics or similar events could disrupt the economy in the U.S. and other countries where we have insured exposure or operate our businesses. In certain jurisdictions outside the U.S. we face higher risks of governmental intervention through nationalization or expropriation of assets, changes in regulation, an inability to enforce our rights in court or otherwise and corruption, which may cause us to incur losses on the exposures we insure or reputational harm.. Budget deficits at all levels of government in the U.S., recessions, increases in corporate, municipal, sovereign, sub-sovereign or consumer default rates and other general economic conditions may adversely impact the performance of our insured portfolios and the Company's investment portfolio. In addition, we are exposed to correlation risk as a result of the possibility that multiple credits will experience losses as a result of any such event or series of events, in particular exposures that are backed by revenues from business and personal travel, such as aircraft securitizations and bonds backed by hotel taxes.. 16. Table of Contents. Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued)     Financial modeling involves uncertainty over ultimate outcomes, which makes it difficult to estimate liquidity, potential paid claims payments, loss reserves and fair values.  The Company uses third-party and internal financial models to estimate liquidity, potential claims payments, loss reserves and fair values. We use internal financial models to conduct liquidity stress-scenario testing to ensure that we maintain cash and liquid securities sufficient to meet our payment requirements. These measurements are performed on a legal entity and operating segment basis. We also rely on financial models, generated internally and supplemented by models generated by third parties, to estimate factors relating to the highly complex securities we insure, including future credit performance of the underlying assets, and to evaluate structures, rights and our potential obligations over time. We also use internal models for ongoing insurance portfolio monitoring and to estimate case basis loss reserves and, where applicable, to report our obligations under our contracts at fair value. We may supplement such models with third-party models or use third-party experts to consult with our internal modeling specialists. Both internal and external models are subject to model risk and information risk, and there can be no assurance that the inputs into the models received from third parties will be accurate or that the models themselves are accurate or comprehensive in estimating our liquidity, potential future paid claims, related loss reserves and fair values or that they are similar to methodologies employed by our competitors, counterparties or other market participants. Estimates of our claims payments, in particular, may materially impact our liquidity position. We may make changes to our estimated claims payments, loss reserves or fair value models from time to time. These changes could materially impact our financial results.  Our risk management policies and procedures may not adequately detect or prevent future losses.  We assess our risk management policies and procedures on a periodic basis. As a result of such assessment, we may take steps to change our internal risk assessment capabilities and procedures, portfolio management policies, systems and processes and our policies and procedures for monitoring and assessing the performance of our insured portfolio in changing market conditions. There can be no assurance, however, that these steps will be adequate to avoid future losses. In some cases, losses can be substantial, particularly if a loss occurs on a transaction in which we have a large notional exposure or on a transaction structured with large, bullet-type maturities.  Legal, Regulatory and Other Risk Factors  Regulatory change could adversely affect our businesses, and regulations limit investors' ability to effect a takeover or business combination that shareholders might consider in their best interests.  The financial guarantee insurance industry has historically been and will continue to be subject to the direct and indirect effects of governmental regulation, including insurance laws, securities laws, tax laws, legal precedents and accounting rules affecting asset-backed and municipal obligations, as well as changes in those laws. Also, the failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could expose our insurance companies, their directors or shareholders to fines, the loss of their insurance licenses, and the inability to engage in certain business activity, as the case may be. These laws also limit investors' ability to affect a takeover or business combination without the approval of our insurance regulators.  Changes to laws and regulations, or the interpretation thereof could subject our insurance companies to increased loss reserves and capital requirements or more stringent regulation generally, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Finally, changes to accounting standards and regulations may require modifications to our accounting methodology, both prospectively and for prior periods; such changes could have an adverse impact on our reported financial results and/or make it more difficult for investors to understand the economics of our business and may thus influence the types or volume of business that we may choose to pursue.  Our insurance companies could become subject to regulatory action.  Our insurance companies are subject to various statutory and regulatory restrictions that require them to maintain qualifying investments to support their reserves and required minimum surplus. Furthermore, our insurance companies may be restricted from making commutation or other payments if doing so would cause them to fail to meet such requirements, and the NYSDFS may impose other remedial actions on us as described further below to the extent our insurance companies do not meet such requirements.     17. Table of Contents. Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued). Under the NYIL, the Superintendent of Financial Services may apply for an order directing the rehabilitation or liquidation of a domestic insurance company under certain circumstances, including upon the insolvency of the company, if the company has willfully violated its charter or the NYIL, or if the company is found, after examination, to be in such condition that further transaction of business would be hazardous to its policyholders, creditors or the public. The Superintendent of Financial Services may also suspend an insurer's license, restrict its license authority, or limit the amount of premiums written in New York if, after a hearing, the Superintendent determines that the insurer's surplus to policyholders is not adequate in relation to its outstanding liabilities or financial needs. If the Superintendent were to take any such action, it could result in the reduction or elimination of the payment of dividends to MBIA Inc.. In addition to the Superintendent's authority to commence a rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding, if the Superintendent finds that the liabilities of MBIA Insurance Corporation exceed its admitted assets, the Superintendent could use its authority under Section 1310 of the NYIL to order MBIA Insurance Corporation to cease making claims payments (a \"1310 Order\"). Continuing elevated loss payments and delay or failure in realizing expected recoveries as well as certain other factors may materially and adversely affect MBIA Insurance Corporation's liquidity and its ability to timely meet its insurance obligations, and could cause the NYSDFS to put MBIA Insurance Corporation into a rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding, or issue a 1310 Order, if it does not believe MBIA Insurance Corporation will be able to pay expected claims. See Risk Factor \"An MBIA Insurance Corporation rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding could accelerate certain of the Company's other obligations and have other adverse consequences\" under \"MBIA Corp. Risk Factors\" for the potential impacts of an MBIA Insurance Corporation rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding, or a 1310 Order.. Interruption in information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, could harm our business.. We depend heavily on our information technology and other operational systems and on the integrity and timeliness of data we use to run our businesses. These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events or circumstances wholly or partly beyond our control. Further, we face the risk of operational and technology failures by others, including various financial intermediaries and of vendors and parties to which we outsource the provision of services or business operations. If this risk is realized, we may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and other adverse effects on our business.. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our information technology and other systems could be subject to physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized tampering or other security breaches, resulting in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data.. Interruption in information technology and other operational systems, or a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on such systems, whether due to actions by us or others, could delay or disrupt our ability to do business, harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and other claims, lead to a loss of clients and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business.. Private litigation claims could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.. As further set forth in \"Note 20: Commitments and Contingencies\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of MBIA Inc. and Subsidiaries in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, the Company and/or its subsidiaries are named as defendants in certain litigations, and in the ordinary course of business, may be a defendant in or party to a new or threatened legal action. Although the Company intends to vigorously defend against any current or future action, there can be no assurance that it will prevail in any such action, and any adverse ultimate outcome could result in a loss and/or have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations or financial condition.. 18. Table of Contents. Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued)     The Company is dependent on key executives and the loss of any of these executives, or its inability to retain other key personnel, could adversely affect its business.  The Company's success substantially depends upon its ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of its senior management and other key employees to implement its business strategy. The Company believes there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in the business lines in which the Company competes. The Company relies substantially upon the services of William C. Fallon, Chief Executive Officer, and other senior executives. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to retain the services of key executives. While the Company has a succession plan for key executives and does not expect the departure of any key executives to have a material adverse effect on its operations, there can be no assurance that the loss of the services of any of these individuals or other key members of the Company's management team would not adversely affect the implementation of its business strategy.  An ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code could have materially adverse tax consequences.  In connection with transactions in our shares from time to time, we may in the future experience an \"ownership change\" within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. In general terms, an ownership change may result from transactions increasing the aggregate ownership of certain stockholders in our stock by more than 50 percentage points over a testing period (generally three years). If an ownership change were to occur, our ability to use certain tax attributes, including certain losses, credits, deductions or tax basis, may be limited. There can be no assurance that MBIA Inc. will not undergo an ownership change at a time when these limitations could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's financial condition.  Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could materially adversely affect the value of the Company's net deferred tax asset.  MBIA Inc. carries a net deferred tax asset whose value is calculated by application of the federal corporate taxation rates in effect at the time of determination. Changes in applicable U.S. tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation and application, including the possibility of retroactive effect, could affect our net deferred tax asset as they did in 2017 upon passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, that the President of the United States signed into law on December 22, 2017. As a result of the Company having established a full valuation allowance against its net deferred tax asset in 2017, any adjustment to the Company's net deferred tax asset, will likely result in a corresponding change to the Company's valuation allowance, resulting in no impact to the Company's balance sheet or income statement.  Capital, Liquidity and Market Related Risk Factors  We are a holding company and rely to a significant degree on cash flow from our principal operating subsidiaries and access to third-party capital. A disruption in the cash flow from our subsidiaries or an inability to access capital could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition and ultimately adversely affect liquidity.  As a holding company, MBIA Inc. is largely dependent on dividends and payments under our tax sharing agreement to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness and operating expenses, among other items. We expect that for the foreseeable future National will be the primary source of dividends and tax sharing agreement payments. National is subject to various statutory and regulatory restrictions, applicable to insurance companies generally, that limit the amount of cash dividends, loans and advances that it may pay. See \"New York State Dividend Limitations\" in Part 1, Item 1 and \"Note 14: Insurance Regulations and Dividends\" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of MBIA Inc. and Subsidiaries in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a further discussion of dividends.  We may also from time to time seek to raise capital from external sources. The Company's access to external sources of financing, as well as the cost of such financing would be influenced by various factors, which could include (i) the long-term debt ratings of the Company, (ii) expected dividends from our subsidiaries, (iii) the financial condition and business prospects of our insurance companies and (iv) the perceptions of the financial strength of MBIA Inc. and our insurance companies. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, future growth, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.     19. Table of Contents. Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued). To the extent that we are unable to access external capital necessary to support our insurance companies, our insurance companies may not have sufficient liquidity to meet their obligations and may not be able to pay dividends to us. Consequently, our inability to maintain access to capital on favorable terms could have an adverse impact on our ability to pay losses and debt obligations, to pay dividends on our capital stock, to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, to pay our operating expenses and to make capital investments in our subsidiaries. In addition, future capital raises for equity or equity-linked securities could result in dilution to the Company's shareholders. In addition, some securities that the Company could issue, such as preferred stock or securities issued by the Company's operating subsidiaries may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of its common shares.. MBIA Inc. has substantial indebtedness, and may incur additional indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial condition, and/or our ability to obtain financing in the future, react to changes in our business and/or satisfy our obligations.. As of December 31, 2017, MBIA Inc. had $765 million of medium-term note liabilities, $576 million of Senior Notes liabilities and $337 million of investment agreement liabilities. Our substantial indebtedness and other liabilities could have material consequences because:. <U+0095>   we may be unable to obtain additional financing, should such a need arise, which may limit our ability to satisfy obligations with respect to our debt;. <U+0095>   a large portion of MBIA Inc.'s financial resources must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the funds available to use for other purposes;. <U+0095>   it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations to our creditors, resulting in possible defaults on, and acceleration of, such debt;. <U+0095>   we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. <U+0095>   our ability to refinance debt may be limited or the associated costs may increase;. <U+0095>   our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions could be limited, or we may be prevented from carrying out capital spending that is necessary or important to our growth strategy and efforts to improve operating margins of our businesses; and. <U+0095>   we are exposed to the risk of fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates because a portion of our liabilities are at variable rates of interest or denominated in foreign currencies.. Adverse developments in the credit markets may materially and adversely affect MBIA Inc.'s ability to post collateral and meet other liquidity needs.. Currently, the majority of the cash and securities of MBIA Inc. are pledged against investment agreement liabilities, intercompany financing arrangements and derivatives, which limit its ability to raise liquidity through asset sales. If the market value or rating eligibility of the assets which are pledged against MBIA Inc.'s obligations were to decline, we would be required to pledge additional eligible assets in order to meet minimum required collateral amounts against these liabilities. In such event, we may sell assets, potentially with substantial losses, finance unencumbered assets through intercompany facilities, or use free cash or other assets, although there can be no assurance that these strategies will be available or adequate to meet liquidity requirements.. The level of interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates could materially and adversely affect our financial condition.. Increases in prevailing interest rate levels can adversely affect the value of our investment portfolios and, therefore, our financial condition. In the event that investments must be sold in order to make payments on insured exposures or other liabilities, such investments would likely be sold at discounted prices. Increases in interest rates also adversely affect the values of investments collateralizing our investment agreement liabilities in our corporate operations, which would require the Company to post additional collateral to its counterparties. Additionally, in the insurance operations, increasing interest rates could lead to increased credit stress on transactions in our insured portfolio, while a decline in interest rates could result in larger loss reserves on a present value basis.. 20. Table of Contents. Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued). Lower interest rates can result in lower net interest income since a substantial amount of assets are now held in cash and cash equivalents given the increased focus on liquidity. Lower interest rates would also adversely impact the value of our interest rate swap contracts in our corporate operations, and would require the Company to post additional collateral to its counterparties.. In addition, the Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk in respect of assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. In addition to insured liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, some of the remaining liabilities in our corporate segment are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars and the assets of our corporate segment are predominantly denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, the weakening of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies could substantially increase our potential obligations and statutory capital exposure. Conversely, the Company makes investments denominated in a foreign currency and the weakening of the foreign currency versus the U.S. dollar will diminish the value of such non-U.S. dollar denominated asset. Exchange rates have fluctuated significantly in recent periods and may continue to do so in the future, which could adversely impact the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.. MBIA Corp. Risk Factors. As described further and for the reasons stated herein, we believe that MBIA Corp. will not provide significant economic or shareholder value to MBIA Inc. For additional information on MBIA Corp., refer to \"Results of Operations - International and Structured Finance Insurance\" in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Additionally, also as described further herein, given the separation of MBIA Inc. and MBIA Corp. as distinct legal entities, the absence of any cross defaults between the entities, and the lack of reliance by MBIA Inc. on MBIA Corp. for the receipt of dividends, we do not believe that a rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding of MBIA Insurance Corporation by the NYSDFS would have any significant long-term impact on the financial condition or liquidity of MBIA Inc. However, there can be no assurance that the financial condition or a rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding of MBIA Insurance Corporation would not have an adverse impact on MBIA Inc. The risk factors described below with respect to MBIA Corp. are set forth for that reason, as well as for an independent understanding of the risks to MBIA Corp.. Continuing elevated loss payments and delay or failure in realizing expected recoveries on insured transactions may materially and adversely affect MBIA Insurance Corporation's statutory capital and its ability to meet liquidity needs and could cause the NYSDFS to put MBIA Insurance Corporation into a rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding if the NYSDFS concludes that MBIA Insurance Corporation will not be able to pay expected claims.. MBIA Insurance Corporation is particularly sensitive to the risk that it will not have sufficient capital or liquid resources to meet contractual payment obligations when due or to make settlement payments in order to terminate insured exposures to avoid losses. While management's expected liquidity and capital forecasts for MBIA Insurance Corporation reflect adequate resources to pay expected claims, there are risks to the capital and liquidity forecasts as MBIA Insurance Corporation's remaining insured exposures and its expected salvage recoveries are potentially volatile. Such volatility exists in the amount of excess spread and put-back recoverable that MBIA Insurance Corporation may collect, its ability to recover the approximately $919 million in aggregate claims it paid in respect of the insured notes (the \"Zohar I Notes\") issued by Zohar CDO 2003-1, Limited (\"Zohar I\") and in respect of the insured notes (the \"Zohar II Notes\") issued by Zohar II 2005-1 CDO (\"Zohar II\"), and the exposure in its remaining insured portfolio, which could deteriorate and result in significant additional loss reserves and claim payments, including claims on insured exposures that in some cases may require large bullet payments.. Regarding the recoveries on the payments on the Zohar I Notes and Zohar II Notes, on November 20, 2015 MBIA Insurance Corporation paid a $149 million claim on the Zohar I Notes. On January 20, 2017 (the \"Zohar II Maturity Date\"), it paid a claim of approximately $770 million (the \"Zohar II Claim Payment\") on the Zohar II Notes (collectively, the \"Zohar Claims Payments\"). MBIA Insurance Corporation is entitled to reimbursement of the Zohar Claims Payments plus interest and certain costs and expenses and to exercise certain rights and remedies to seek recovery of the Zohar Claim Payments.. 21. Table of Contents. Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued). In connection with its satisfaction of the Zohar II Claim Payment, MBIA Insurance Corporation consummated a financing facility, which is described in more detail under the \"Liquidity - MBIA Corp. Liquidity\" section in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K (the \"Facility\"), with affiliates of certain holders of its 14% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Surplus Notes (collectively, the \"Senior Lenders\"), and with the Company, pursuant to which the Senior Lenders have provided $325 million of senior financing and the Company has provided $38 million of subordinated financing.. Under the Facility the Company has also agreed to provide an additional $50 million of subordinated financing to MZ Funding, which MZ Funding will lend to MBIA Insurance Corporation if needed by MBIA Insurance Corporation for liquidity purposes.. MBIA Insurance Corporation believes that the primary source of funds for the repayment of its obligations under the Facility and for reimbursement for the Zohar Claims Payments will come from the liquidation or refinancing of the loans made to, and equity interests in, companies purportedly controlled by the sponsor and former collateral manager of Zohar I and Zohar II (the \"Zohar Sponsor\") and any claims that MBIA may have against the Zohar Sponsor (collectively, the \"Zohar Collateral\"). Any proceeds from the Zohar Collateral will first be used to repay MBIA Corporation's obligations under the Facility, before MBIA Insurance Corporation can use any such proceeds as reimbursement for the Zohar Claims Payments, except that any payments on or recoveries made on the Zohar II Collateral will be allocated on a pro-rata basis to repayment of the senior notes of the Facility and the MBIA Corp. Payment.. Referring to the description of the Facility in \"Liquidity - MBIA Corp. Liquidity\" section in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K, the Company's ability to collect the principal and interest on the Insured Subordinated Notes will be based primarily on the amount recovered by MBIA Insurance Corporation with respect to the Collateral, after payment in full of the Insured Senior Notes and other related payment obligations that are senior to the Insured Subordinated Notes, pursuant to the Intercreditor Agreement. Based on the estimated value of the Collateral in relation to the amount of the Senior Insured Notes and the Subordinated Insured Notes, the Company expects that the recoveries from the Collateral will be sufficient to enable the payment in full of the Subordinated Insured Notes. There is uncertainty, however, with respect to the realizable value of the Collateral and there can be no assurance that recoveries on the Collateral will be sufficient to pay the Subordinated Insured Notes in full or that, in the event that recoveries on the Collateral are not sufficient to pay the Subordinated Insured Notes in full, that MBIA Insurance Corporation will be able to pay any shortfall necessary to pay the Subordinated Insured Notes in full under the policy insuring the Subordinated Insured Notes.. Similarly, while MBIA Insurance Corporation believes there will be sufficient recoveries on the Zohar Collateral to both repay amounts due under the Facility and to substantially reimburse it for the Zohar Claims Payments, there is significant uncertainty with respect to the realizable value of the Zohar Collateral, and there can be no assurance that recoveries on the Zohar Collateral will be sufficient to pay the Facility, together with accrued interest and other costs in full, particularly in light of the substantial interest and associated costs to be incurred in connection with the Facility, and to reimburse MBIA Insurance Corporation for the Zohar Claims Payments. If the amount of recoveries on the Zohar Collateral is not sufficient to repay amounts due under the Facility on or before its maturity date and to reimburse MBIA Insurance Corporation for a substantial portion of the Zohar Claims Payments, MBIA Insurance Corporation would likely incur substantial additional losses, which could materially impair its statutory capital and liquidity.. MBIA Insurance Corporation believes that if the NYSDFS concludes at any time that MBIA Insurance Corporation will not be able to satisfy its obligations under the Facility and under its other issued policies, the NYSDFS would likely put MBIA Insurance Corporation into a rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding under Article 74 of the NYIL and/or take such other actions as the NYSDFS may deem necessary to protect the interests of MBIA Insurance Corporation's policyholders. The determination to commence such a proceeding or take other such actions is within the exclusive control of the NYSDFS. The NYSDFS enjoys broad discretion in this regard, and any determination they may make would not be limited to consideration of the matters described above. As noted, however, given the separation of MBIA Inc. and MBIA Corp. as distinct legal entities, the absence of any cross defaults between the entities, and the lack of reliance by MBIA Inc. on MBIA Corp. for the receipt of dividends, we do not believe that a rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding of MBIA Insurance Corporation by the NYSDFS would have any significant long-term liquidity impact on MBIA Inc.. 22. Table of Contents. Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued)     MBIA Corp. insures certain transactions that continue to perform poorly and increased losses or a delay or failure in collecting expected recoveries may materially and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations.  MBIA Corp. insures certain structured finance transactions that remain volatile and could result in additional losses, which could be substantial, including RMBS, CDOs, and one CMBS pool transaction.  MBIA Corp. has also recorded significant loss reserves on its RMBS and CDO exposures, and there can be no assurance that these reserves will be sufficient, in particular if the economy deteriorates. These transactions are also subject to servicer risks, which relates to problems with the transaction's servicer that could adversely affect performance of the underlying assets. Furthermore, MBIA Corp. has recorded substantial expected recoveries on certain RMBS, and the timing and amount of those recoveries are subject to risk. Any delay or failure in collecting expected recoveries may materially and adversely affect MBIA Corp.'s financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2017, it recorded expected receipts of $233 million on a pre-VIE elimination basis (on a present value basis) from excess spread (the difference between interest inflows on assets and interest outflows on liabilities) in our RMBS transactions, in reimbursement of our past and future expected claims. Of this amount, $226 million is included in \"Insurance loss recoverable\" and $7 million is included in \"Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves\" on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. The amount of excess spread depends on future interest rates and borrower refinancing and defaults. There can be no assurance that this recovery will be received in its entirety or in the expected timeframe. In addition, the Company has recorded a recovery on a transaction containing ineligible loans securitized by Credit Suisse. The Company is pursuing recovery of its losses on this transaction in a litigation in which its assessment of the ineligibility of individual mortgage loans has been challenged by Credit Suisse, and there is no assurance that the Company's determinations will prevail, or that the Company will be successful in collecting its estimated recoveries in the anticipated timeframe. The litigation may take several years to resolve, during which time we will continue to be required to pay losses on the subject transaction, which may exceed the reserves established for the transaction.  With respect to the one remaining insured static CMBS pool transaction, it has experienced ratings erosion of the pool's CMBS collateral. Since 2013, MBIA Corp. has paid claims on this transaction after the deductible was eliminated, and we expect to experience additional claims on this transaction in the future. The ultimate loss rate on this transaction remains uncertain. It is possible that MBIA Corp. will experience losses or near-term liquidity needs on this transaction, particularly if the economy does not continue to improve, there is a new recession, increased delinquencies, higher levels of liquidations of delinquent loans, or higher severities of loss upon liquidation.  An MBIA Insurance Corporation rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding could accelerate certain of the Company's other obligations and have other adverse consequences.  As noted above, MBIA Insurance Corporation continues to face a number of significant risks and contingencies, which could, if realized, result in MBIA Insurance Corporation being placed into a rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding by the NYSDFS. In the event of an MBIA Insurance Corporation rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding, the Company may be subject to, among other things, the following:      <U+0095>   MTNs issued by GFL, which are insured by MBIA Insurance Corporation, would accelerate. To the extent GFL failed to pay the accelerated amounts under the GFL MTNs, the MTN holders would have policy claims against MBIA Insurance Corporation for scheduled payments of interest and principal;     <U+0095>   An MBIA Insurance Corporation proceeding may accelerate certain investment agreements issued by MBIA Inc., including, in some cases, with make-whole payments. While the investment agreements are fully collateralized with high quality collateral, the settlements of these amounts could reduce MBIA Inc.'s liquidity resources, and to the extent MBIA Inc. fails to pay the accelerated amounts under these investment agreements or the collateral securing these investment agreements is deemed insufficient to pay the accelerated amounts due, the holders of the investment agreements would have policy claims against MBIA Insurance Corporation;     <U+0095>   The payment of installment premiums due to National from MBIA Insurance Corporation under the reinsurance agreement between National and MBIA Insurance Corporation (Refer to Item 1, \"Our Insurance Operations\", \"Reinsurance\" for a description of the agreement) could be disrupted, delayed or subordinated to the claims of policyholders of MBIA Insurance Corporation;   23. Table of Contents. Item 1A. Risk Factors (continued). <U+0095>   CDS and other derivative counterparties may seek to terminate derivative contracts insured by MBIA Insurance Corporation and make market-based damage claims (irrespective of whether actual credit-related losses are expected under the underlying exposure);. <U+0095>   The rehabilitator or liquidator would replace the Board of Directors of MBIA Insurance Corporation and take control of the operations and assets of MBIA Insurance Corporation, which would result in the Company losing control of MBIA Insurance Corporation and possible changes to MBIA Insurance Corporation's strategies and management; and. <U+0095>   Unplanned costs on MBIA Inc., as well as significant additional expenses for MBIA Insurance Corporation arising from the appointment of a rehabilitator or liquidator, as receiver, and payment of the fees and expenses of the advisors to such rehabilitator or liquidator.. Revenues and liquidity would be adversely impacted by a decline in realization of installment premiums.. Due to the installment nature of a significant percentage of its premium income, MBIA Corp. has an embedded future revenue stream. The amount of installment premiums actually realized by MBIA Corp. could be reduced in the future due to factors such as early termination of insurance contracts, accelerated prepayments of underlying obligations, commutation of existing financial guarantee insurance policies or non-payment. Such a reduction would result in lower revenues and reduced liquidity."
