[1] "ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS.. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as other information in this Form 10-K, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described below could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. In such an event, the trading price of our common stock may decline and you may lose all or part of your investment.. Risks Related to Our Business. General economic conditions, particularly in the U.S., affect our industry, demand for our products and our business, and results of operations.. Demand for premium sport boat and outboard boat brands has been significantly influenced by weak economic conditions, low consumer confidence, high unemployment, and increased market volatility worldwide, especially in the U.S. In times of economic uncertainty and contraction, consumers tend to have less discretionary income and tend to defer or avoid expenditures for discretionary items, such as our products. Sales of our products are highly sensitive to personal discretionary spending levels. Our business is cyclical in nature and its success is impacted by economic conditions, the overall level of consumer confidence and discretionary income levels. Any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions that diminishes consumer confidence or discretionary income may reduce our sales and materially adversely. 15. Table of Contents. affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict the duration or strength of an economic recovery, either in the U.S. or in the specific markets where we sell our products. Corporate restructurings, layoffs, declines in the value of investments and residential real estate, higher gas prices, higher interest rates, and increases in federal and state taxation may each materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Consumers often finance purchases of our products. Although consumer credit markets have improved, consumer credit market conditions continue to influence demand, especially for boats, and may continue to do so. There continue to be fewer lenders, tighter underwriting and loan approval criteria, and greater down payment requirements than in the past. If credit conditions worsen, and adversely affect the ability of consumers to finance potential purchases at acceptable terms and interest rates, it could result in a decrease in the sales of our products.. Our annual and quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control.. Our sales and operating results can vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tseasonal consumer demand for our products;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdiscretionary spending habits;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in pricing in, or the availability of supply in, the used powerboat market;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfailure to maintain a premium brand image;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdisruption in the operation of our manufacturing facilities;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tvariations in the timing and volume of our sales;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe timing of our expenditures in anticipation of future sales;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsales promotions by us and our competitors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in competitive and economic conditions generally;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconsumer preferences and competition for consumers' leisure time;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\timpact of unfavorable weather conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the cost or availability of our labor; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreased fuel prices.. Due to these and other factors, our results of operations may decline quickly and significantly in response to changes in order patterns or rapid decreases in demand for our products. We anticipate that fluctuations in operating results will continue in the future.. Unfavorable weather conditions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, especially during the peak boating season.. Adverse weather conditions in any year in any particular geographic region may adversely affect sales in that region, especially during the peak boating season. Sales of our products are generally stronger just before and during spring and summer, which represent the peak boating months in most of our markets, and favorable weather during these months generally has a positive effect on consumer demand. Conversely, unseasonably cool weather, excessive rainfall, reduced rainfall levels, or drought conditions during these periods may close area boating locations or render boating dangerous or inconvenient, thereby generally reducing consumer demand for our products. Our annual results would be materially and. 16. Table of Contents. adversely affected if our net sales were to fall below expected seasonal levels during these periods. We may also experience more pronounced seasonal fluctuation in net sales in the future as we continue to expand our businesses. Additionally, to the extent that unfavorable weather conditions are exacerbated by global climate change or otherwise, our sales may be affected to a greater degree than we have previously experienced. There can be no assurance that weather conditions will not have a material effect on the sales of any of our products.. We depend on our network of independent dealers, face increasing competition for dealers, and have little control over their activities.. Substantially all of our sales are derived from our network of independent dealers. Our Mastercraft brand has agreements with dealers in its network that typically provide for one-year terms, although some agreements have a term of up to three years, while our NauticStar brand typically does not enter into dealer agreements with its dealers. For fiscal 2018, our top ten dealers accounted for 33% of our total gross sales. The loss of a significant number of these dealers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The number of dealers supporting our products and the quality of their marketing and servicing efforts are essential to our ability to generate sales. Competition for dealers among performance sport boat manufacturers continues to increase based on the quality, price, value, and availability of the manufacturers' products, the manufacturers' attention to customer service, and the marketing support that the manufacturer provides to the dealers. We face intense competition from other premium performance sport and outboard boat manufacturers in attracting and retaining dealers (some of whom also sell products from other premium performance sport and outboard boat manufacturers), affecting our ability to attract or retain relationships with qualified and successful dealers. Although our management believes that the quality of our products in the premium performance sport and outboard boat industries should permit us to maintain our relationships with our dealers and our market share position, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or improve our relationships with our dealers or our market share position. In addition, independent dealers in the powerboat industry have experienced significant consolidation in recent years, which could result in the loss of one or more of our dealers in the future if the surviving entity in any such consolidation purchases similar products from a competitor. A substantial deterioration in the number of dealers or quality of our network of dealers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our success depends, in part, upon the financial health of our dealers and their continued access to financing.. Because we sell nearly all of our products through dealers, their financial health is critical to our success. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected if the financial health of the dealers that sell our products suffers. Their financial health may suffer for a variety of reasons, including a downturn in general economic conditions, rising interest rates, higher rents, increased labor costs and taxes, compliance with regulations, and personal financial issues.. In addition, our dealers require adequate liquidity to finance their operations, including purchases of our products. Dealers are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could unfavorably affect their liquidity positions, including, among other things, continued access to adequate financing sources on a timely basis on reasonable terms. These sources of financing are vital to our ability to sell products through our distribution network. Access to floor plan financing generally facilitates our dealers' ability to purchase boats from us, and their financed purchases reduce our working capital requirements. If floor plan financing were not available to our dealers, our sales and our working capital levels would be adversely affected. The availability and terms of financing offered by our dealers' floor plan financing providers will continue to be influenced by:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttheir ability to access certain capital markets and to fund their operations in a cost-effective manner;. 17. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe performance of their overall credit portfolios;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttheir willingness to accept the risks associated with lending to dealers; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe overall creditworthiness of those dealers.. We may be required to repurchase inventory of certain dealers.. Many of our dealers have floor plan financing arrangements with third-party finance companies that enable the dealers to purchase our products. In connection with these agreements, we may have an obligation to repurchase our products from a finance company under certain circumstances, and we may not have any control over the timing or amount of any repurchase obligation nor have access to capital on terms acceptable to us to satisfy any repurchase obligation. This obligation is triggered if a dealer defaults on its debt obligations to a finance company, the finance company repossesses the boat and the boat is returned to us. Our obligation to repurchase a repossessed boat for the unpaid balance of our original invoice price for the boat is subject to reduction or limitation based on the age and condition of the boat at the time of repurchase, and in certain cases, by an aggregate cap on repurchase obligations associated with a particular floor plan financing program. We have not incurred any losses from a finance company mandated repurchase since the recession. No boats were repurchased during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2018, 2017 or 2016. In addition, applicable laws regulating dealer relations may also require us to repurchase our products from our dealers under certain circumstances, and we may not have any control over the timing or amount of any repurchase obligation nor have access to capital on terms acceptable to us to satisfy any repurchase obligation. If we were obligated to repurchase a significant number of units under any repurchase agreement or under applicable dealer laws, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected.. If we fail to manage our manufacturing levels while still addressing the seasonal retail pattern for our products, our business and margins may suffer.. The seasonality of retail demand for our products, together with our goal of balancing production throughout the year, requires us to manage our manufacturing and allocate our products to our dealer network to address anticipated retail demand. Our dealers must manage seasonal changes in consumer demand and inventory. If our dealers reduce their inventories in response to weakness in retail demand, we could be required to reduce our production, resulting in lower rates of absorption of fixed costs in our manufacturing and, therefore, lower margins. As a result, we must balance the economies of level production with the seasonal retail sales pattern experienced by our dealers. Failure to adjust manufacturing levels adequately may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We have a large fixed cost base that will affect our profitability if our sales decrease.. The fixed cost levels of operating a powerboat manufacturer can put pressure on profit margins when sales and production decline. Our profitability depends, in part, on our ability to spread fixed costs over a sufficiently large number of products sold and shipped, and if we make a decision to reduce our rate of production, gross or net margins could be negatively affected. Consequently, decreased demand or the need to reduce production can lower our ability to absorb fixed costs and materially impact our financial condition or results of operations.. Our industry is characterized by intense competition, which affects our sales and profits.. The premium performance sport boat and outboard boat categories and the powerboat industry as a whole are highly competitive for consumers and dealers. We also compete against consumer demand for used boats. Competition affects our ability to succeed in both the markets we currently serve and new markets that we may enter in the future. Competition is based primarily on brand name, price, product selection, and product performance. We compete with several large. 18. Table of Contents. manufacturers that may have greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we do and who are represented by dealers in the markets in which we now operate and into which we plan to expand. We also compete with a variety of small, independent manufacturers. We cannot assure you that we will not face greater competition from existing large or small manufacturers or that we will be able to compete successfully with new competitors. Our failure to compete effectively with our current and future competitors would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our sales may be adversely impacted by increased consumer preference for used boats or the supply of new boats by competitors in excess of demand.. During the economic downturn that commenced in 2008, we observed a shift in consumer demand toward purchasing more used boats, primarily because prices for used boats are typically lower than retail prices for new boats. If this were to occur again, it could have the effect of reducing demand among retail purchasers for our new boats. Also, while we have taken steps designed to balance production volumes for our boats with demand, our competitors could choose to reduce the price of their products, which could have the effect of reducing demand for our new boats. Reduced demand for new boats could lead to reduced sales by us, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.. Our sales and profitability depend, in part, on the successful introduction of new products.. Market acceptance of our products depends on our technological innovation and our ability to implement technology in our boats. Our sales and profitability may be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development, such as an inability to develop viable or innovative new products. Our failure to introduce new technologies and product offerings that consumers desire could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Also, we have been able to achieve higher margins in part as a result of the introduction of new features or enhancements to our existing boat models. If we fail to introduce new features or those we introduce fail to gain market acceptance, our margins may suffer.. In addition, some of our direct competitors and indirect competitors may have significantly more resources to develop and patent new technologies. It is possible that our competitors will develop and patent equivalent or superior technologies and other products that compete with ours. They may assert these patents against us and we may be required to license these patents on unfavorable terms or cease using the technology covered by these patents, either of which would harm our competitive position and may materially adversely affect our business.. We also cannot be certain that our products or features have not infringed or will not infringe the proprietary rights of others. Any such infringement could cause third parties, including our competitors, to bring claims against us, resulting in significant costs and potential damages.. Our international markets require significant management attention, expose us to difficulties presented by international economic, political, legal, and business factors, and may not be successful or produce desired levels of sales and profitability.. We currently sell our products throughout the world. International markets have been, and will continue to be, a focus for sales growth. We believe many opportunities exist in the international markets, and over time we intend for international sales to comprise a larger percentage of our total revenue. Several factors, including weakened international economic conditions, could adversely affect such growth and there can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain our current international sales levels in the future. The expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets require significant management attention. Some of the countries in which we market, and in which. 19. Table of Contents. our distributors or licensee(s) sell our products, are subject to political, economic, or social instability. Our international operations expose us and our representatives, agents, and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include, but are not limited to:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreased costs of customizing products for foreign countries;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunfamiliarity with local demographics, consumer preferences, and discretionary spending patterns;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in attracting customers due to a reduced level of customer familiarity with our brand;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcompetition with new, unfamiliar competitors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe imposition of additional foreign governmental controls or regulations, including rules relating to environmental, health, and safety matters and regulations, and other laws applicable to publicly-traded companies, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnew or enhanced trade restrictions and restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives, and distributors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe imposition of increases in costly and lengthy import and export licensing and other compliance requirements, customs duties and tariffs, license obligations, and other non-tariff barriers to trade;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges to the U.S.'s participation in, withdrawal out of, renegotiation of certain international trade agreements or other major trade related issues including the non-renewal of expiring favorable tariffs granted to developing countries, tariff quotas, and retaliatory tariffs (including, but not limited to, the Trump Administration's tariffs on Europe and Canada on certain products from the U.S.), trade sanctions, new or onerous trade restrictions, embargoes and other stringent government controls;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe relative strength of the U.S. dollar compared to local currency, making our products less price-competitive relative to products manufactured outside of the U.S.;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe relative strength of the U.S. dollar compared to local currency, making our products less price-competitive relative to products manufactured outside of the U.S.;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlaws and business practices favoring local companies;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlonger payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinsurrection or war that may disrupt or limit our relationships with our foreign customers.. Our international operations may not produce desired levels of total sales, or one or more of the foregoing factors may harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Our results after the acquisition of NauticStar may suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations following the acquisition.. The size of our business has increased significantly as a result of our acquisition of NauticStar in October 2017. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of additional operations and. 20. Table of Contents. associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances we will be successful or that we will realize the expected benefits currently anticipated from the acquisition of NauticStar.. We have and will continue to incur significant acquisition-related integration costs and transaction expenses in connection with the acquisition of NauticStar and the related financing transactions.. We are currently implementing a plan to integrate the operations of NauticStar. In connection with that plan, we anticipate that we may incur certain non-recurring charges. However, we cannot currently identify the timing, nature and amount of all such charges. Further, we have incurred significant transaction costs relating to negotiating and completing the acquisition of NauticStar. These integration costs and transaction expenses will be charged as an expense in the period incurred. The significant transaction costs and integration costs could materially affect our results of operations in the period in which such charges are recorded. Although we believe that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the business, will offset incremental transaction and integration costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all.. The NauticStar business may underperform relative to our expectations.. We may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency as a combined business that we and NauticStar have previously achieved or might achieve separately. The business and financial performance of NauticStar are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including the risk of the loss of, or changes to, its relationships with its dealers and suppliers, increased product liability and warranty claims, and negative publicity or other events that could diminish the value of the NauticStar brand, which in turn could also adversely affect the MasterCraft brand. If we are unable to achieve the same growth, revenues and profitability that NauticStar has achieved in the past, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.. Rising concern regarding international tariffs could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. The current political landscape has introduced significant uncertainty with respect to future trade regulations and existing international trade agreements, as shown by the recent U.S.-initiated renegotiation of the North America Free Trade Agreement, and Brexit in Europe. This uncertainty includes the possibility of imposing tariffs or penalties on products manufactured outside the U.S., including the recent announcement of the U.S. government's institution of tariffs on a range of products from China, and the potential for increased trade barriers between the UK and the European Union. The institution of global trade tariffs carries the risk of negatively affecting global economic conditions, which could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations.. The unaudited pro forma financial information we filed on Form 8-K/A on November 2, 2017 may not be indicative of our future results with NauticStar.. The unaudited pro forma financial information we filed onForm 8-K/A on November 2, 2017 may not reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been after giving effect to the acquisition of NauticStar and the related financing during the periods presented or be indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be in the future. The unaudited pro forma financial information has been derived from our historical financial statements and the historical financial statements of NauticStar, as well as adjustments and assumptions made regarding the combined entity following the transaction. While we believe these assumptions and adjustments are reasonable, they are preliminary in nature and difficult to make with accuracy. Moreover, the unaudited pro forma financial statements do not reflect all costs that may be incurred by the combined company in connection with the transaction. The. 21. Table of Contents. assumptions used and adjustments made in preparing the unaudited pro forma financial information may prove to be inaccurate.. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported sales and net earnings.. The changing relationships of primarily the U.S. dollar to the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar, the Euro, the British pound sterling, the Japanese yen, and certain other foreign currencies have from time to time had a negative impact on our results of operations. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to these foreign currencies can adversely affect the price of our products in foreign markets and the costs we incur to import certain components for our products. In addition, we will often attempt to offset these higher prices with increased discounts, which can lead to reduced net sales per unit.. We compete with a variety of other activities for consumers' scarce leisure time.. Our boats are used for recreational and sport purposes, and demand for our boats may be adversely affected by competition from other activities that occupy consumers' leisure time and by changes in consumer lifestyle, usage pattern, or taste. Similarly, an overall decrease in consumer leisure time may reduce consumers' willingness to purchase and enjoy our products.. Our success depends upon the continued strength of our brands and the value of our brands, and sales of our products could be diminished if we, the athletes who use our products, or the sports and activities in which our products are used are associated with negative publicity.. We believe that our brands are a significant contributor to the success of our business and that maintaining and enhancing our brands is important to expanding our consumer and dealer base. Failure to continue to protect our brands may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Negative publicity, including that resulting from severe injuries or death occurring in the sports and activities in which our products are used, could negatively affect our reputation and result in restrictions, recalls, or bans on the use of our products. Further, actions taken by athletes associated with our products that harm the reputations of those athletes could also harm our brand image and adversely affect our financial condition. If the popularity of the sports and activities for which we design, manufacture, and sell products were to decrease as a result of these risks or any negative publicity, sales of our products could decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our net sales, profitability, and operating results. In addition, if we become exposed to additional claims and litigation relating to the use of our products, our reputation may be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful, including by generating potential negative publicity about our products, which could adversely impact our business and financial condition.. We may not be able to execute our manufacturing strategy successfully, which could cause the profitability of our products to suffer.. Our manufacturing strategy is designed to improve product quality and increase productivity, while reducing costs and increasing flexibility to respond to ongoing changes in the marketplace. To implement this strategy, we must be successful in our continuous improvement efforts, which depend on the involvement of management, production employees, and suppliers. Any inability to achieve these objectives could adversely impact the profitability of our products and our ability to deliver desirable products to our consumers.. 22. Table of Contents. Our ability to meet our manufacturing workforce needs is crucial to our results of operations and future sales and profitability.. We rely on the existence of an available hourly workforce to manufacture our boats. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified employees to meet current or future manufacturing needs at a reasonable cost, or at all. Although none of our employees are currently covered by collective bargaining agreements, we cannot assure you that our employees will not elect to be represented by labor unions in the future, which could increase our labor costs. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees. Significant increases in manufacturing workforce costs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. We rely on third-party suppliers and, in particular, a single supplier of the engine packages used in the manufacturing of our boats.. We depend on third-party suppliers to provide components and raw materials essential to the construction of our boats. While we believe that our relationships with our current suppliers are sufficient to provide the materials necessary to meet present production demand, we cannot assure you that these relationships will continue or that the quantity or quality of materials available from these suppliers will be sufficient to meet our future needs, irrespective of whether we successfully implement our growth strategy. As production increases, our need for raw materials and supplies will increase. Our suppliers must be prepared to ramp up operations and, in many cases, hire additional workers and/or expand capacity in order to fulfill the orders placed by us and other customers. Operational and financial difficulties that our suppliers may face in the future could adversely affect their ability to supply us with the parts and components we need, which could significantly disrupt our operations.. The availability and cost of engines used in the manufacture of our boats are especially critical. For fiscal 2018, we purchased all of the inboard engine packages for our MasterCraft brand boats from Ilmor. We also maintain a strong and long-standing relationship with our primary supplier of NauticStar engine packages, Yamaha. While we believe that our relationships with Ilmor and Yamaha are sufficient to provide the materials necessary to meet present production demand, there can be no assurance that these relationships will continue or that the quantity or quality of the engines provided will be sufficient to meet our future needs, irrespective of whether we successfully implement our growth strategy. If we are required to replace these suppliers, it could cause a decrease in products available for sale or an increase in the cost of goods sold, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition to the risk of interruption of our engine supply, Ilmor or Yamaha could potentially exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims, or other terms relating to the inboard engines we use. We are required to purchase a minimum volume of engines from Ilmor annually or pay a penalty to Ilmor in order to maintain our exclusivity. While these minimums are significantly below our current volumes, there can be no assurance that we will continue to meet these minimums in the future.. Termination or interruption of informal supply arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.. We have informal supply arrangements with some of our suppliers, including the sole supplier of our gas and ballast tanks. In the event of a termination of a supply arrangement, there can be no assurance that alternate supply arrangements will be made on satisfactory terms. If we need to enter into supply arrangements on unsatisfactory terms, or if there are any delays to our supply arrangements, it could adversely affect our business and operating results.. 23. Table of Contents. We depend upon key personnel and we may not be able to retain them or attract, assimilate, and retain highly qualified employees in the future.. Our future success will depend in significant part upon the continued service of our senior management team and our continuing ability to attract, assimilate, and retain highly qualified and skilled managerial, product development, manufacturing, marketing, and other personnel. The loss of the services of any members of our senior management or other key personnel or the inability to hire or retain qualified personnel in the future could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We may attempt to grow our business through acquisitions or strategic alliances and new partnerships, which we may not be successful in completing or integrating.. We may in the future explore acquisitions and strategic alliances that will enable us to acquire complementary skills and capabilities, offer new products, expand our consumer base, enter new product categories or geographic markets, and obtain other competitive advantages. We cannot assure you, however, that we will identify acquisition candidates or strategic partners that are suitable to our business, obtain financing on satisfactory terms, complete acquisitions or strategic alliances, or successfully integrate acquired operations into our existing operations. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve anticipated levels of sales or profitability, or otherwise perform as expected. Acquisitions also involve special risks, including risks associated with unanticipated challenges, liabilities and contingencies, and diversion of management attention and resources from our existing operations. Similarly, our partnership with leading franchises from other industries to market our products or with third-party technology providers to introduce new technology to the market may not achieve anticipated levels of consumer enthusiasm and acceptance, or achieve anticipated levels of sales or profitability, or otherwise perform as expected.. Our intellectual property rights may be inadequate to protect our business.. We attempt to protect our intellectual property through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, protected design, and trade secret laws. We hold patents, trademarks, copyrights, and design rights relating to various aspects of our products and believe that proprietary technical know-how is important to our business. Proprietary rights relating to our products are protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents, trademarks, or copyrights, to the extent they are protected designs, or to the extent they are maintained in confidence as trade secrets.. We cannot be certain that we will be issued any patents from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us, or that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Further, the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by others. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our patents, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents.. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors, and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation, or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how, or other proprietary information. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, we could be materially adversely affected.. Further, we have attempted to protect certain of our vessel hull designs by seeking to register those designs with the United States Copyright Office. We cannot assure you that our applications will be approved. If approved, protection of the vessel. 24. Table of Contents. design lasts ten years. However, our protected vessel hull designs could be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by others. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our designs, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our rights.. We rely on our trademarks, trade names, and brand names to distinguish our products from the products of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks. We cannot assure you that our trademark applications will be approved. Third parties may also oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of the trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our trademarks, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks.. If third parties claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, our financial condition could be adversely affected.. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed third parties' intellectual property rights. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could be expensive and time consuming to defend, cause us to cease making, licensing, or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, require us to redesign, reengineer, or rebrand our products, if feasible, divert management's attention and resources, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party's intellectual property. Any royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. A successful claim of infringement against us could result in our being required to pay significant damages, enter into costly license or royalty agreements, or stop the sale of certain products, any of which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. While we are not currently involved in any outstanding intellectual property litigation that we believe, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations, we cannot predict the outcome of any pending litigation and an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. Product liability, warranty, personal injury, property damage, and recall claims may materially affect our financial condition and damage our reputation.. We are engaged in a business that exposes us to claims for product liability and warranty claims in the event our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected, or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in property damage, personal injury, or death. We have in the past incurred such liabilities and may in the future be exposed to liability for such claims. Although we maintain product and general liability insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for the industry, we are not fully insured against all such potential claims. We may experience legal claims in excess of our insurance coverage or claims that are not covered by insurance, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Adverse determination of material product liability and warranty claims made against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and harm our reputation. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to participate in a recall of that product if the defect or alleged defect relates to safety. These and other claims we may face could be costly to us and require substantial management attention.. Significant product repair and/or replacement due to product warranty claims or product recalls could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.. We provide a limited warranty for our products. We may provide additional warranties related to certain promotional programs, as well as warranties in certain geographical markets as determined by local regulations and market conditions.. 25. Table of Contents. Although we employ quality control procedures, sometimes a product is distributed that needs repair or replacement. Our standard warranties require us or our dealers to repair or replace defective products during such warranty periods at no cost to the consumer. Historically, product recalls have been administered through our dealers and distributors. The repair and replacement costs we could incur in connection with a recall could adversely affect our business. In addition, product recalls could harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers, particularly if recalls cause consumers to question the safety or reliability of our products.. The nature of our business exposes us to workers' compensation claims and other workplace liabilities.. Certain materials we use require our employees to handle potentially hazardous or toxic substances. While our employees who handle these and other potentially hazardous or toxic materials receive specialized training and wear protective clothing, there is still a risk that they, or others, may be exposed to these substances. Exposure to these substances could result in significant injury to our employees and damage to our property or the property of others, including natural resource damage. Our personnel are also at risk for other workplace- related injuries, including slips and falls. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to fines, penalties, and other liabilities in connection with any such injury or damage. Although we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable and adequate insurance in excess of our self- insured amounts, we may be unable to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or such insurance may not provide adequate protection against potential liabilities.. We may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions, and breaches in data security.. We use many information technology systems and their underlying infrastructure to operate our business. The size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion, and random attack. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees or others with permitted access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. While we have invested in protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business.. An increase in energy costs may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Higher energy costs result in increases in operating expenses at our manufacturing facility and in the expense of shipping products to our dealers. In addition, increases in energy costs may adversely affect the pricing and availability of petroleum-based raw materials, such as resins and foams that are used in our products. Also, higher fuel prices may have an adverse effect on demand for our boats, as they increase the cost of ownership and operation.. We are subject to U.S. and other anti-corruption laws, trade controls, economic sanctions, and similar laws and regulations, including those in the jurisdictions where we operate. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to civil, criminal, and administrative penalties and harm our reputation.. Doing business on a worldwide basis requires us to comply with the laws and regulations of various foreign jurisdictions. These laws and regulations place restrictions on our operations, trade practices, partners, and investment decisions. In particular, our operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption and trade control laws and regulations, such as the FCPA, export controls, and economic sanctions programs, including those administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC. As a result of doing business in foreign countries and with foreign partners, we are exposed to a heightened risk of violating anti-corruption and trade control laws and sanctions regulations.. 26. Table of Contents. The FCPA prohibits us from providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper business advantage. It also requires us to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions.. Economic sanctions programs restrict our business dealings with certain sanctioned countries, persons, and entities. In addition, because we act through dealers and distributors, we face the risk that our dealers, distributors, or consumers might further distribute our products to a sanctioned person or entity, or an ultimate end-user in a sanctioned country, which might subject us to an investigation concerning compliance with OFAC or other sanctions regulations.. Violations of anti-corruption and trade control laws and sanctions regulations are punishable by civil penalties, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions, asset seizures, debarment from government contracts, and revocations or restrictions of licenses, as well as criminal fines and imprisonment. We cannot assure you that all of our local, strategic, or joint partners will comply with these laws and regulations, in which case we could be held liable for actions taken inside or outside of the U.S., even though our partners may not be subject to these laws. Such a violation could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Our continued international expansion, including in developing countries, and our development of new partnerships and joint venture relationships worldwide increase the risk of FCPA or OFAC violations in the future.. If we are unable to comply with environmental and other regulatory requirements, our business may be exposed to material liability and/or fines.. Our operations are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations, including those concerning product safety, environmental protection, and occupational health and safety. Some of these laws and regulations require us to obtain permits, and limit our ability to discharge hazardous materials into the environment. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to civil or criminal enforcement actions that could result in the assessment of fines and penalties, obligations to conduct remedial or corrective actions, or, in extreme circumstances, revocation of our permits or injunctions preventing some or all of our operations. In addition, the components of our boats must meet certain regulatory standards, including stringent air emission standards for boat engines. Failure to meet these standards could result in an inability to sell our boats in key markets, which would adversely affect our business. Moreover, compliance with these regulatory requirements could increase the cost of our products, which in turn, may reduce consumer demand.. While we believe that we are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local, and foreign regulatory requirements, and hold all licenses and permits required thereunder, we cannot assure you that we will, at all times, be able to continue to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Compliance with increasingly stringent regulatory and permit requirements may, in the future, cause us to incur substantial capital costs and increase our cost of operations, or may limit our operations, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition.. As with most boat construction businesses, our manufacturing processes involve the use, handling, storage, and contracting for recycling or disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. The failure to manage or dispose of such hazardous substances and wastes properly could expose us to material liability or fines, including liability for personal injury or property damage due to exposure to hazardous substances, damages to natural resources, or for the investigation and remediation of environmental conditions. Under environmental laws, we may be liable for remediation of contamination at sites where our hazardous wastes have been disposed or at our current or former facilities, regardless of whether such facilities are owned or leased or whether the environmental conditions were created by us, a prior owner or tenant, or a third-party. While we do not believe that we are presently subject to any such liabilities, we cannot assure you that environmental conditions relating to our prior, existing, or future sites or operations or those of predecessor companies will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition.. 27. Table of Contents. Natural disasters, environmental disasters, the effects of climate change, or other disruptions at our manufacturing facilities or in other regions of the United States could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. We rely on the continuous operation of our manufacturing facilities in Vonore, Tennessee and Armory, Mississippi for the production of our products. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to our facility due to fire, snow, flood, earthquake, or any other unforeseen circumstance could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes in climate could adversely affect our operations by limiting or increasing the costs associated with equipment or fuel supplies. In addition, adverse weather conditions, such as increased frequency and/or severity of storms, or floods could impair our ability to operate by damaging our facilities and equipment or restricting product delivery to customers. The occurrence of any disruption at our manufacturing facilities, even for a short period of time, may have an adverse effect on our productivity and profitability, during and after the period of the disruption. These disruptions may also cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and environmental damage. Although we maintain property, casualty, and business interruption insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for the industry, we are not fully insured against all potential natural disasters or other disruptions to our manufacturing facilities.. In addition, we have dealers and third-party suppliers located in regions of the United States that have been and may be exposed to damaging storms, such as hurricanes and tornados, floods and environmental disasters. Although preventative measures may help to mitigate damage, the damage and disruption resulting from natural and environmental disasters may be significant. Such disasters can disrupt our dealers, suppliers, or customers, which can interrupt our operational processes and our sales and profits.. Increases in income tax rates or changes in income tax laws or enforcement could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.. Changes in domestic and international tax legislation could expose us to additional tax liability. Although we monitor changes in tax laws and work to mitigate the impact of proposed changes, such changes may negatively impact our financial results. In addition, any increase in individual income tax rates, such as those implemented in the U.S. at the beginning of 2013, would negatively affect our potential consumers' discretionary income and could decrease the demand for our products.. Our credit facilities contain covenants which may limit our operating flexibility; failure to comply with covenants may result in our lenders restricting or terminating our ability to borrow under such credit facilities.. In the past, we have relied upon our existing credit facilities to provide us with adequate liquidity to operate our business. The availability of borrowing amounts under our credit facilities is dependent upon compliance with the debt covenants set forth in our credit agreement. Violation of those covenants, whether as a result of operating losses or otherwise, could result in our lenders restricting or terminating our borrowing ability under our credit facilities. If our lenders reduce or terminate our access to amounts under our credit facilities, we may not have sufficient capital to fund our working capital and other needs, and we may need to secure additional capital or financing to fund our operations or to repay outstanding debt under our credit facilities. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in ensuring the availability of amounts under our credit facilities or in raising additional capital, or that any amount, if raised, will be sufficient to meet our cash needs or will be on terms as favorable as those which have been available to us historically. If we are not able to maintain our ability to borrow under our credit facilities, or to raise additional capital when needed, our business and operations will be materially and adversely affected.. 28. Table of Contents. Risks Relating to Ownership of our Common Stock. You may be diluted by future issuances of common stock in connection with our incentive plans, acquisitions, or otherwise; future sales of such shares in the public market, or the expectations that such sales may occur, could lower our stock price.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue shares of common stock and options, rights, warrants, and appreciation rights relating to common stock for the consideration and on the terms and conditions established by our board of directors in its sole discretion, whether in connection with acquisitions or otherwise.. We have reserved shares for issuance under the Amended and Restated MCBC Holdings, Inc. 2015 Incentive Award Plan in an amount equal to 1,675,427 shares. Any common stock that we issue, including under our 2015 Incentive Award Plan or other equity incentive plans that we may adopt in the future, would dilute the percentage ownership of holders of our common stock.. Our common stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. It is possible that an active trading market for our common stock will not be sustained, which could make it difficult for you to sell your shares of common stock at an attractive price or at all.. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent you from being able to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for them. Many factors, which are outside our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including those described elsewhere in this \"Risk Factors\" section and this Form 10-K, as well as the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour operating and financial performance and prospects;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry compared to market expectations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconditions that impact demand for our services;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfuture announcements concerning our business or our competitors' businesses;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements, and filings with the SEC;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcoverage by or changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or failure to meet their expectations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarket and industry perception of our success, or lack thereof, in pursuing our growth strategy;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tstrategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in laws or regulations that adversely affect our industry or us;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in senior management or key personnel;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tissuances, exchanges or sales, or expected issuances, exchanges or sales of our capital stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in our dividend policy;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadverse resolution of new or pending litigation against us; and. 29. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in general market, economic, and political conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets, including those resulting from natural disasters, terrorist attacks, acts of war, and responses to such events.. As a result, volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent investors from being able to sell their common stock at or above the price they paid for it or at all. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, price volatility may be greater if the public float and trading volume of our common stock is low. As a result, you may suffer a loss on your investment.. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future.. While we have paid dividends in the past, we presently have no intention to pay dividends on our common stock at any time in the foreseeable future. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Certain of our debt instruments contain covenants that restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. In addition, we will be permitted under the terms of our debt instruments to incur additional indebtedness, which may restrict or prevent us from paying dividends on our common stock. Furthermore, our ability to declare and pay dividends may be limited by instruments governing future outstanding indebtedness we may incur.. Delaware law and certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may prevent efforts by our stockholders to change the direction or management of our Company.. We are a Delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including, but not limited to, the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour board of directors is classified into three classes, each of which serves for a staggered three-year term;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tonly our board of directors may call special meetings of our stockholders;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour stockholders have only limited rights to amend our by-laws; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\twe require advance notice and duration of ownership requirements for stockholder proposals.. These provisions could discourage, delay, or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. In addition, because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team.. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, including those relating to accounting standards and disclosure about our executive compensation, that apply to other public companies.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, as modified by the JOBS Act. As such, we are eligible to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies,\" including, but not limited to, (i) not being required to. 30. Table of Contents. comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (ii) reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and (iii) exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and of stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We have elected to adopt these reduced disclosure requirements. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive as a result of our taking advantage of these exemptions and as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile.. We could remain an \"emerging growth company\" for up to five years or until the earliest of (a) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues exceed $1.07 billion, (b) the date that we become a \"large accelerated filer\" as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\"), which would occur if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed fiscal quarter, and (c) the date on which we have issued more than $1.07 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the preceding three-year period.. The obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention, which may divert us from our business operations.. As a result of our initial public offering, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly, and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. As a result, we have and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses that we did not previously incur.. In addition, the need to establish the corporate infrastructure demanded of a public company may divert management's attention from implementing our business strategy, which could prevent us from improving our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We have made, and will continue to make, changes to our internal controls, including information technology controls, and procedures for financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations as a public company. However, the measures we take may not be sufficient to satisfy our obligations as a public company. If we do not continue to develop and implement the right processes and tools to manage our changing enterprise and maintain our culture, our ability to compete successfully and achieve our business objectives could be impaired, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur to comply with these requirements. We anticipate that these costs will be material to our general and administrative expenses.. Furthermore, as a public company, we have and will continue to incur additional legal, accounting, and other expenses that have not been reflected in our historical financial statements. In addition, rules implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ have imposed various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. These rules and regulations result in our incurring legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified people to serve on our board of directors, on our board committees, or as executive officers.. 31. Table of Contents. Our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as a public company could have a material adverse effect on our business and share price.. Prior to the completion of our initial public offering, we had not operated as a public company and were not required to independently comply with Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, starting with the second annual report that we file with the SEC. We were required to meet these standards in the course of preparing our financial statements as of and for the year ended June 30, 2017, and our management is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for such year. Additionally, once we are no longer an emerging growth company, as defined by the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis. The rules governing the standards that must be met for our management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing, and possible remediation.. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We are currently in the process of reviewing, documenting, and testing our internal control over financial reporting. We may encounter problems or delays in implementing any changes necessary to make a favorable assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving a favorable attestation in connection with the attestation to be provided by our independent registered public accounting firm after we cease to be an emerging growth company. If we cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our internal controls after we cease to be an emerging growth company, investors could lose confidence in our financial information and the price of our common stock could decline.. Additionally, the existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency may require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies and management may not be able to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in a timely manner. The existence of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could also result in errors in our financial statements that could require us to restate our financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, and cause stockholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business and share price.. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our company, or if they issue unfavorable commentary about us or our industry or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that third-party securities analysts publish about our company and our industry. We may be unable or slow to attract research coverage and if one or more analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market. In addition, one or more of these analysts could downgrade our common stock or issue other negative commentary about our company or our industry. As a result of one or more of these factors, the trading price of our common stock could decline."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
