[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following discussion of various risks and uncertainties.  We believe these risk factors are the most relevant to our business and could cause our results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements made by us.  Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be seriously harmed if any of these risks or uncertainties actually occur or materialize.  In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.. The effects of a recession and tightened credit markets in the U.S. and other countries may adversely impact our business and financial condition and may negatively impact our ability to access financing.. Demand for our rental products depends on continued industrial and business activity and state government funding.  The effects of the recent credit crisis and economic recession in the U.S. and general global economic downturn had an adverse effect on our customers, including local school districts that are subject to budgetary constraints, which resulted in decreased demand for the products we rent.  The U.S. economy continues to experience some weakness following a severe credit crisis and recession.  While the U.S. economy has emerged from the recession, if the economy experiences another recession, reduced demand for our rental products and deflation could increase price competition and could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability.. Instability in the global financial system may also have an impact on our business and our financial condition.  In recent years, general economic conditions and the tightening credit markets have significantly affected the ability of many companies to raise new capital or refinance existing indebtedness.  While we intend to finance expansion with cash flow from operations and borrowing under our unsecured revolving line of credit under our Credit Facility (as defined and more fully described under the heading \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Unsecured Revolving Lines of Credit\"), we may require additional financing to support our continued growth.  Constriction in the capital markets, should we need to access the market for additional funds or to refinance our existing indebtedness, could limit our ability to obtain such additional funds on terms acceptable to the Company or at all.  All of these factors could impact our business, resulting in lower revenues and lower levels of earnings in future periods.  At the current time we are uncertain as to the magnitude, or duration, of such changes in our business.. Our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate in the future, which may result in a decline in the value of your investment in our common stock.. The market price of our common stock fluctuates on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and is likely to be affected by a number of factors including but not limited to:. •  our operating performance and the performance of our competitors, and in particular any variations in our operating results or dividend rate from our stated guidance or from investors' expectations;. •  any changes in general conditions in the global economy, the industries in which we operate or the global financial markets;. •  investors' reaction to our press releases, public announcements or filings with the SEC;. •  the stock price performance of our competitors or other comparable companies;. •  any changes in research analysts' coverage, recommendations or earnings estimates for us or for the stocks of other companies in our industry;. •  any sales of common stock by our directors, executive officers and our other large shareholders, particularly in light of the limited trading volume of our stock;. •  any merger and acquisition activity that involves us or our competitors; and. •  other announcements or developments affecting us, our industry, customers, suppliers or competitors.. In addition, in recent years the U.S. stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations.  These fluctuations are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies.  More recently, the global credit crisis adversely affected the prices of most publicly traded stocks as many stockholders have become more willing to divest their stock holdings at lower values to increase their cash flow and reduce exposure to such fluctuations.  These broad market fluctuations and any other negative economic trends may cause declines in the market price of our common stock and may be based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our Company or its performance, and these fluctuations and trends could materially reduce our stock price.. -15-. Our future operating results may fluctuate, fail to match past performance or fail to meet expectations, which may result in a decrease in our stock price.. Our operating results may fluctuate in the future, may fail to match our past performance or fail to meet the expectations of analysts and investors.  Our results and related ratios, such as gross margin, operating income percentage and effective tax rate may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control including but not limited to:. •  general economic conditions in the geographies and industries where we rent and sell our products;. •  legislative and educational policies where we rent and sell our products;. •  the budgetary constraints of our customers;. •  seasonality of our rental businesses and our end-markets;. •  success of our strategic growth initiatives;. •  costs associated with the launching or integration of new or acquired businesses;. •  the timing and type of equipment purchases, rentals and sales;. •  the nature and duration of the equipment needs of our customers;. •  the timing of new product introductions by us, our suppliers and our competitors;. •  the volume, timing and mix of maintenance and repair work on our rental equipment;. •  our equipment mix, availability, utilization and pricing;. •  the mix, by state and country, of our revenues, personnel and assets;. •  rental equipment impairment from excess, obsolete or damaged equipment;. •  movements in interest rates or tax rates;. •  changes in, and application of, accounting rules;. •  changes in the regulations applicable to us; and. •  litigation matters.. As a result of these factors, our historical financial results are not necessarily indicative of our future results or stock price.. Our ability to retain our executive management and to recruit, retain and motivate key employees is critical to the success of our business.. If we cannot successfully recruit and retain qualified personnel, our operating results and stock price may suffer.  We believe that our success is directly linked to the competent people in our organization, including our executive officers, senior managers and other key personnel, and in particular, Joe Hanna, our Chief Executive Officer.  Personnel turnover can be costly and could materially and adversely impact our operating results and can potentially jeopardize the success of our current strategic initiatives. We need to attract and retain highly qualified personnel to replace personnel when turnover occurs, as well as add to our staff levels as growth occurs.  Our business and stock price likely will suffer if we are unable to fill, or experience delays in filling open positions, or fail to retain key personnel.. Failure by third parties to manufacture and deliver our products to our specifications or on a timely basis may harm our reputation and financial condition.. We depend on third parties to manufacture our products even though we are able to purchase products from a variety of third-party suppliers.  In the future, we may be limited as to the number of third-party suppliers for some of our products. Although in general we make advance purchases of some products to help ensure an adequate supply, currently we do not have any long-term purchase contracts with any third-party supplier.  We may experience supply problems as a result of financial or operating difficulties or failure of our suppliers, or shortages and discontinuations resulting from product obsolescence or other shortages or allocations by our suppliers.  Unfavorable economic conditions may also adversely affect our suppliers or the terms on which we purchase products.  In the future, we may not be able to negotiate arrangements with third parties to secure products that we require in sufficient quantities or on reasonable terms.  If we cannot negotiate arrangements with third parties to produce our products or if the third parties fail to produce our products to our specifications or in a timely manner, our reputation and financial condition could be harmed.. -16-. Disruptions in our information technology systems or failure to protect these systems against security breaches could adversely affect our business and results of operations.  Additionally, if these systems fail, become unavailable for any period of time or are not upgraded, this could limit our ability to effectively monitor and control our operations and adversely affect our operations.. Our information technology systems facilitate our ability to transact business, monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions.  Any disruption in our information technology systems or the failure of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively transact business, monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions in a timely manner.. In addition, because of recent advances in technology and well-known efforts on the part of computer hackers and cyber terrorists to breach data security of companies, we face risks associated with potential failure to adequately protect critical corporate, client and employee data, which, if released, could adversely impact our client relationships, our reputation, and even violate privacy laws.  As part of our business, we develop, receive and retain confidential data about our company and our customers.. Further, the delay or failure to implement information system upgrades and new systems effectively could disrupt our business, distract management's focus and attention from our business operations and growth initiatives, and increase our implementation and operating costs, any of which could negatively impact our operations and operating results.. We have engaged in acquisitions and may engage in future acquisitions that could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and business.. In 2004, we acquired TRS, an electronic test equipment rental business and in 2008 we acquired Adler Tanks, a liquid and solid containment rental business.  We anticipate that we will continue to consider acquisitions in the future that meet our strategic growth plans.  We are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition will be completed.  Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following:. •  difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired companies;. •  diversion of management's attention from normal daily operations of our business;. •  difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets may have stronger market positions;. •  difficulties in complying with regulations applicable to any acquired business, such as environmental regulations, and managing risks related to an acquired business;. •  timely completion of necessary financing and required amendments, if any, to existing agreements;. •  an inability to implement uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies;. •  undiscovered and unknown problems, defects, damaged assets liabilities, or other issues related to any acquisition that become known to us only after the acquisition;. •  negative reactions from our customers to an acquisition;. •  disruptions among employees related to any acquisition which may erode employee morale;. •  loss of key employees, including costly litigation resulting from the termination of those employees;. •  an inability to realize cost efficiencies or synergies that we may anticipate when selecting acquisition candidates;. •  recording of goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to future impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges;. •  incurring amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; and. •  becoming subject to litigation.. Acquisitions are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our future acquisitions will be successful or will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition.  The success of our acquisition strategy depends upon our ability to successfully complete acquisitions and integrate any businesses that we acquire into our existing business.  The difficulties of integration could be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; maintaining acceptable standards, controls, procedures and policies; integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds; combining different corporate cultures; and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management and. -17-. other personnel.  In addition, if we consummate one or more significant future acquisitions in which the consideration consists of stock or other securities, our existing shareholders' ownership could be diluted significantly. If we were to proceed with one or more significant future acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use, to the extent available, a substantial portion of our Credit Facility.  If we increase the amount borrowed against our available credit line, we would increase the risk of breaching the covenants under our credit facilities with our lenders.  In addition, it would limit our ability to make other investments, or we may be required to seek additional debt or equity financing. Any of these items could adversely affect our results of operations.. If we determine that our goodwill and intangible assets have become impaired, we may incur impairment charges, which would negatively impact our operating results.. At December 31, 2017, we had $35.5 million of goodwill and intangible assets, net, on our consolidated balance sheets.  Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations.  Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we assess potential impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets at least annually, as well as on an interim basis to the extent that factors or indicators become apparent that could reduce the fair value of any of our businesses below book value.  Impairment may result from significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired asset, negative industry or economic trends and significant underperformance relative to historic or projected operating results.. Our rental equipment is subject to residual value risk upon disposition, and may not sell at the prices or in the quantities we expect.. The market value of any given piece of rental equipment could be less than its depreciated value at the time it is sold. The market value of used rental equipment depends on several factors, including:. •  the market price for new equipment of a like kind;. •  the age of the equipment at the time it is sold, as well as wear and tear on the equipment relative to its age;. •  the supply of used equipment on the market;. •  technological advances relating to the equipment;. •  worldwide and domestic demand for used equipment; and. •  general economic conditions.. We include in income from operations the difference between the sales price and the depreciated value of an item of equipment sold. Changes in our assumptions regarding depreciation could change our depreciation expense, as well as the gain or loss realized upon disposal of equipment.  Sales of our used rental equipment at prices that fall significantly below our projections or in lesser quantities than we anticipate will have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows.. If we do not effectively manage our credit risk, collect on our accounts receivable or recover our rental equipment from our customers' sites, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.. We generally rent and sell to customers on 30 day payment terms, individually perform credit evaluation procedures on our customers for each transaction and require security deposits or other forms of security from our customers when a significant credit risk is identified. Historically, accounts receivable write-offs and write-offs related to equipment not returned by customers have not been significant and have averaged less than 1% of total revenues over the last five years.  If economic conditions deteriorate, we may see an increase in bad debt relative to historical levels, which may materially and adversely affect our operations. Business segments that experience significant market disruptions or declines (such as weakness in upstream oil and gas customer demand at Adler Tanks) may experience increased customer credit risk and higher bad debt expense. Failure to manage our credit risk and receive timely payments on our customer accounts receivable may result in write-offs and/or loss of equipment, particularly electronic test equipment.  If we are not able to effectively manage credit risk issues, or if a large number of our customers should have financial difficulties at the same time, our receivables and equipment losses could increase above historical levels.  If this should occur, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.. Effective management of our rental assets is vital to our business.  If we are not successful in these efforts, it could have a material adverse impact on our result of operations.. Our modular, electronics and liquid and solid containment rental products have long useful lives and managing those assets is a critical element to each of our rental businesses.  Generally, we design units and find manufacturers to build them to our specifications. -18-. for our modular and liquid and solid containment tanks and boxes. Modular asset management requires designing and building the product for a long life that anticipates the needs of our customers, including anticipating potential changes in legislation, regulations, building codes and local permitting in the various markets in which the Company operates. Electronic test equipment asset management requires understanding, selecting and investing in equipment technologies that support market demand, including anticipating technological advances and changes in manufacturers' selling prices.  Liquid and solid containment asset management requires designing and building the product for a long life, using quality components and repairing and maintaining the products to prevent leaks.  For each of our modular, electronic test equipment and liquid and solid containment assets, we must successfully maintain and repair this equipment cost-effectively to maximize the useful life of the products and the level of proceeds from the sale of such products. To the extent that we are unable to do so, our result of operations could be materially adversely affected.. The nature of our businesses, including the ownership of industrial property, exposes us to the risk of litigation and liability under environmental, health and safety and products liability laws.  Violations of environmental or health and safety related laws or associated liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to national, state, provincial and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, solid and liquid waste and hazardous substances handling, storage and disposal and employee health and safety.  These laws and regulations are complex and frequently change.  We could incur unexpected costs, penalties and other civil and criminal liability if we fail to comply with applicable environmental or health and safety laws.  We also could incur costs or liabilities related to waste disposal or remediating soil or groundwater contamination at our properties, at our customers' properties or at third party landfill and disposal sites.  These liabilities can be imposed on the parties generating, transporting or disposing of such substances or on the owner or operator of any affected property, often without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous substances.. Several aspects of our businesses involve risks of environmental and health and safety liability.  For example, our operations involve the use of petroleum products, solvents and other hazardous substances in the construction and maintaining of modular buildings and for fueling and maintaining our delivery trucks and vehicles.  We also own, transport and rent tanks and boxes in which waste materials are placed by our customers.  The historical operations at some of our previously or currently owned or leased and newly acquired or leased properties may have resulted in undiscovered soil or groundwater contamination or historical non-compliance by third parties for which we could be held liable.  Future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement, or the discovery of currently unknown contamination or non-compliance, may also give rise to liabilities or other claims based on these operations that may be material.  In addition, compliance with future environmental or health and safety laws and regulations may require significant capital or operational expenditures or changes to our operations.. Accordingly, in addition to potential penalties for non-compliance, we may become liable, either contractually or by operation of law, for investigation, remediation and monitoring costs even if the contaminated property is not presently owned or operated by us, or if the contamination was caused by third parties during or prior to our ownership or operation of the property.  In addition, certain parties may be held liable for more than their \"fair\" share of environmental investigation and cleanup costs. Contamination and exposure to hazardous substances or other contaminants such as mold can also result in claims for remediation or damages, including personal injury, property damage, and natural resources damage claims.  Although expenses related to environmental compliance, health and safety issues, and related matters have not been material to date, we cannot assure that we will not have to make significant expenditures in the future in order to comply with applicable laws and regulations.  Violations of environmental or health and safety related laws or associated liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In general, litigation in the industries in which we operate, including class actions that seek substantial damages, arises with increasing frequency.  Enforcement of environmental and health and safety requirements is also frequent.  Such proceedings are invariably expensive, regardless of the merit of the plaintiffs' or prosecutors' claims.  We may be named as a defendant in the future, and there can be no assurance, irrespective of the merit of such future actions, that we will not be required to make substantial settlement payments in the future. Further, a significant portion of our business is conducted in California which is one of the most highly regulated and litigious states in the country.  Therefore, our potential exposure to losses and expenses due to new laws, regulations or litigation may be greater than companies with a less significant California presence.. The nature of our business also subjects us to property damage and product liability claims, especially in connection with our modular buildings and tank and box rental businesses. Although we maintain liability coverage that we believe is commercially reasonable, an unusually large property damage or product liability claim or a series of claims could exceed our insurance coverage or result in damage to our reputation.. -19-. Our routine business activities expose us to risk of litigation from employees, vendors and other third parties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may be subject to claims arising from disputes with employees, vendors and other third parties in the normal course of our business; these risks may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. If the plaintiffs in any suits against us were to successfully prosecute their claims, or if we were to settle any such suits by making significant payments to the plaintiffs, our operating results and financial condition would be harmed.  Even if the outcome of a claim proves favorable to us, litigation can be time consuming and costly and may divert management resources.  In addition, our organizational documents require us to indemnify our senior executives to the maximum extent permitted by California law.  We maintain directors' and officers' liability insurance that we believe is commercially reasonable in connection with such obligations, but if our senior executives were named in any lawsuit, our indemnification obligations could magnify the costs of these suits and/or exceed the coverage of such policies.. If we suffer loss to our facilities, equipment or distribution system due to catastrophe, our insurance policies could be inadequate or depleted, our operations could be seriously harmed, which could negatively affect our operating results.. Our facilities, rental equipment and distribution systems may be subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, hurricane, earthquake, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters.  In particular, our headquarters, three operating facilities, and certain of our rental equipment are located in areas of California, with above average seismic activity and could be subject to catastrophic loss caused by an earthquake.  Our rental equipment and facilities in Texas, Florida, North Carolina and Georgia are located in areas subject to hurricanes and other tropical storms.  In addition to customers' insurance on rented equipment, we carry property insurance on our rental equipment in inventory and operating facilities as well as business interruption insurance.  We believe our insurance policies have adequate limits and deductibles to mitigate the potential loss exposure of our business.  We do not maintain financial reserves for policy deductibles and our insurance policies contain exclusions that are customary for our industry, including exclusions for earthquakes, flood and terrorism.  If any of our facilities or a significant amount of our rental equipment were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay orders, shipments and revenue recognition and result in expenses to repair or replace the damaged rental equipment and facility not covered by insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our debt instruments contain covenants that restrict or prohibit our ability to enter into a variety of transactions and may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs. If we have an event of default under these instruments, our indebtedness could be accelerated and we may not be able to refinance such indebtedness or make the required accelerated payments.. The agreements governing our Series A, Series B and Series C Senior Notes (as defined and more fully described under the heading \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources\") and our Credit Facility contain various covenants that limit our discretion in operating our business.  In particular, we are limited in our ability to merge, consolidate, reorganize or transfer substantially all of our assets, make investments, pay dividends or distributions, redeem or repurchase stock, change the nature of our business, enter into transactions with affiliates, incur indebtedness and create liens on our assets to secure debt.  In addition, we are required to meet certain financial covenants under these instruments.  These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make strategic acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand economic downturns in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise.. A failure to comply with the restrictions contained in these agreements could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness.  In the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to refinance our indebtedness or make any required accelerated payments.  If we default on our indebtedness, our business financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. The majority of our indebtedness is subject to variable interest rates, which makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates, which could negatively affect our net income.. Our indebtedness exposes us to interest rate increases because the majority of our indebtedness is subject to variable rates.  At present, we do not have any derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps or hedges to mitigate interest rate variability. The interest rates under our credit facilities are reset at varying periods. These interest rate adjustments could cause periodic fluctuations in our operating results and cash flows.  Our annual debt service obligations increase by approximately $1.8 million per year for each 1% increase in the average interest rate we pay based on the $183.5 million balance of variable rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2017.  If interest rates rise in the future, and, particularly if they rise significantly, interest expense will increase and our net income will be negatively affected.. -20-. Our effective tax rate may change and become less predictable as our business expands, making our future earnings less predictable.. We continue to consider expansion opportunities domestically and internationally for our rental businesses, such as the organic expansion of our modular business in North Carolina, Georgia, Maryland, Virginia and Washington, D.C., expansion into the portable storage business and our expansion in 2008 into the liquid and solid containment business.  Since the Company's effective tax rate depends on business levels, personnel and assets located in various jurisdictions, further expansion into new markets or acquisitions may change the effective tax rate in the future and may make it, and consequently our earnings, less predictable going forward.  In addition, the enactment of future tax law changes by federal and state taxing authorities may impact the Company's current period tax provision and its deferred tax liabilities.. Changes in applicable tax regulations could negatively affect our financial results.. We are subject to taxation in the United States, as well as a number of foreign jurisdictions.  On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\").  The changes included in the Tax Act are both broad and complex.  The final transitional impact of the Tax Act may differ from the estimates provided in this Annual Report, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the Tax Act, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates we utilized to calculate the transitional impacts, including impacts related to changes to current year earnings estimates and the amount of the repatriation tax. Given the unpredictability of these and other tax laws and related regulations, and their potential interdependency, it is difficult to currently assess the overall effect of such changes.  Nonetheless, any material negative effect of such changes to our earnings and cash flow could adversely impact our financial results.. Changes in financial accounting standards may cause lower than expected operating results and affect our reported results of operations.. Changes in accounting standards and their application may have a significant effect on our reported results on a going-forward basis and may also affect the recording and disclosure of previously reported transactions.  New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred in the past and may occur in the future.  Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.. Failure to comply with internal control attestation requirements could lead to loss of public confidence in our financial statements and negatively impact our stock price.. As a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including Section 404, and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, including expanded disclosures and accelerated reporting requirements.  Compliance with Section 404 and other related requirements has increased our costs and will continue to require additional management resources.  We may need to continue to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls to satisfy new reporting requirements. While our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017 was effective, there is no assurance that future assessments of the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting will be favorable.  If we are unable to obtain future unqualified reports as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our stock price.. SPECIFIC RISKS RELATED TO OUR RELOCATABLE MODULAR BUILDINGS BUSINESS SEGMENT:. Significant reductions of, or delays in, funding to public schools have caused the demand and pricing for our modular classroom units to decline, which has in the past caused, and may cause in the future, a reduction in our revenues and profitability.. Rentals and sales of modular buildings to public school districts for use as classrooms, restroom buildings, and administrative offices for K-12 represent a significant portion of Mobile Modular's rental and sales revenues.  Funding for public school facilities is derived from a variety of sources including the passage of both statewide and local facility bond measures, developer fees and various taxes levied to support school operating budgets.  Many of these funding sources are subject to financial and political considerations, which vary from district to district and are not tied to demand.  Historically, we have benefited from the passage of statewide and local facility bond measures and believe these are essential to our business.. The state of California is our largest market for classroom rentals.  The strength of this market depends heavily on public funding from voter passage of both state and local facility bond measures, and the ability of the state to sell such bonds in the. -21-. public market.  A lack of passage of state and local facility bond measures, or the inability to sell bonds in the public markets in the future could reduce our revenues and operating income, and consequently have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition.  Furthermore, even if voters have approved facility bond measures and the state has raised bond funds, there is no guarantee that individual school projects will be funded in a timely manner.. As a consequence of economic recession, many states and local governments have experienced large budget deficits resulting in severe budgetary constraints among public school districts.  To the extent public school districts' funding is reduced for the rental and purchase of modular buildings, our business could be harmed and our results of operations negatively impacted.  We believe that interruptions or delays in the passage of facility bond measures or completion of state budgets, an insufficient amount of state funding, a significant reduction of funding to public schools, or changes negatively impacting enrollment may reduce the rental and sale demand for our educational products.  Any reductions in funding available to the school districts from the states in which we do business may cause school districts to experience budget shortfalls and to reduce their demand for our products despite growing student populations, class size reduction initiatives and modernization and reconstruction project needs, which could reduce our revenues and operating income and consequently have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition.. Public policies that create demand for our products and services may change, resulting in decreased demand for or the pricing of our products and services, which could negatively affect our revenues and operating income.. In California a law was enacted in 1996 to provide funding for school districts for the reduction of class sizes for kindergarten through third grade.  In Florida, a state constitutional amendment was passed in 2002 to limit the number of students that may be grouped in a single classroom for pre-kindergarten through grade twelve.  School districts with class sizes in excess of state limits have been and continue to be a significant source of our demand for modular classrooms.  Further, in California, efforts to address aging infrastructure and deferred maintenance have resulted in modernization and reconstruction projects by public school districts including seismic retrofitting, asbestos abatement and various building repairs and upgrades, which has been another source of demand for our modular classrooms.  The most recent economic recession has caused state and local budget shortfalls, which have reduced school districts' funding and their ability to comply with state class size reduction requirements in California and Florida.  If educational priorities and policies shift away from class-size reduction or modernization and reconstruction projects, demand and pricing for our products and services may decline, not grow as quickly as, or not reach the levels that we anticipate.  Significant equipment returns may result in lower utilization until equipment can be redeployed or sold, which may cause rental rates to decline and negatively affect our revenues and operating income.. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could harm our business and financial condition, resulting in lower operating results and cash flows.. Similar to conventionally constructed buildings, the modular building industry, including the manufacturers and lessors of portable classrooms, are subject to regulations by multiple governmental agencies at the federal, state and local level relating to environmental, zoning, health, safety, labor and transportation matters, among other matters.  Failure to comply with these laws or regulations could impact our business or harm our reputation and result in higher capital or operating expenditures or the imposition of penalties or restrictions on our operations.. As with conventional construction, typically new codes and regulations are not retroactively applied.  Nonetheless, new governmental regulations in these or other areas may increase our acquisition cost of new rental equipment, limit the use of or make obsolete some of our existing equipment, or increase our costs of rental operations.. Building codes are generally reviewed every three years.  All aspects of a given code are subject to change including, but not limited to, such items as structural specifications for earthquake safety, energy efficiency and environmental standards, fire and life safety, transportation, lighting and noise limits.  On occasion, state agencies have undertaken studies of indoor air quality and noise levels with a focus on permanent and modular classrooms.  These results could impact our existing modular equipment and affect the future construction of our modular product.. Compliance with building codes and regulations entails a certain amount of risk as state and local government authorities do not necessarily interpret building codes and regulations in a consistent manner, particularly where applicable regulations may be unclear and subject to interpretation.  These regulations often provide broad discretion to governmental authorities that oversee these matters, which can result in unanticipated delays or increases in the cost of compliance in particular markets.  The construction and modular industries have developed many \"best practices\" which are constantly evolving. Some of our peers and competitors may adopt practices that are more or less stringent than the Company's.  When, and if, regulatory standards are clarified, the effect of the clarification may be to impose rules on our business and practices retroactively, at which time, we may not be in compliance with such regulations and we may be required to incur costly remediation.  If we are unable to pass these increased costs on to our customers, our profitability, operating cash flows and financial condition could be negatively impacted.. -22-. Expansions of our modular operations into new markets may negatively affect our operating results.. In the past, we have expanded our modular operations in Texas, North Carolina, Georgia, Maryland, Virginia and Washington, D.C.  There are risks inherent in the undertaking of such expansion, including the risk of revenue from the business in any new markets not meeting our expectations, higher than expected costs in entering these new markets, risk associated with compliance with applicable state and local laws and regulations, response by competitors and unanticipated consequences of expansion.  In addition, expansion into new markets may be affected by local economic and market conditions.  Expansion of our operations into new markets will require a significant amount of attention from our management, a commitment of financial resources and will require us to add qualified management in these markets, which may negatively impact our operating results.. We are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts.  These laws and regulations make these government contracts more favorable to government entities than other third parties and any changes in these laws and regulations, or our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our business.. We have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government.  The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts.  For example, many government contracts contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts such as clauses that allow government entities not to perform on contractual obligations in the case of a lack of fiscal funding.  Also, in the educational markets we serve, we are able to utilize \"piggyback\" contracts in marketing our products and services and ultimately to book business.  The term \"piggyback\" contract refers to contracts for portable classrooms or other products entered into by public school districts following a formal bid process that allows for the use of the same contract terms and conditions with the successful vendor by other public school districts.  As a result, \"piggyback\" contracts allow us to more readily book orders from our government customers, primarily public school districts, and to reduce the administrative expense associated with booking these orders. The governmental statutes and regulations that allow for use of \"piggyback\" contracts are subject to change or elimination in their entirety.  A change in the manner of use or the elimination of \"piggyback\" contracts would likely negatively impact our ability to book new business from these government customers and could cause our administrative expenses related to processing these orders to increase significantly.  In addition, any failure to comply with these laws and regulations might result in administrative penalties or even in the suspension of these contracts and as a result, the loss of the related revenues which would harm our business and results from operations.. Seasonality of our educational business may have adverse consequences for our business.. A significant portion of the modular sale and rental revenues is derived from the educational market.  Typically, during each calendar year, our highest numbers of classrooms are shipped for rental and sale orders during the second and third quarters for delivery and installation prior to the start of the upcoming school year. The majority of classrooms shipped in the second and third quarters have rental start dates during the third quarter, thereby making the fourth quarter the first full quarter of rental revenues recognized for these transactions.  Although this is the historical seasonality of our business, it is subject to change or may not meet our expectations, which may have adverse consequences for our business.. We face strong competition in our modular building markets and we may not be able to effectively compete.. The modular building leasing industry is highly competitive in our states of operation and we expect it to remain so.  The competitive market in which we operate may prevent us from raising rental fees or sales prices to pass any increased costs on to our customers.  We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including equipment availability, quality, price, service, reliability, appearance, functionality and delivery terms.  We may experience pricing pressures in our areas of operation in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.. Some of our larger national competitors in the modular building leasing industry, notably WillScot Corporation and Modspace, have a greater range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, and greater name recognition than we have.  These larger competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the relocatable modular building market, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth and to compete for market share, any of which could harm our business.. We may not be able to quickly redeploy modular units returning from leases, which could negatively affect our financial performance and our ability to expand, or utilize, our rental fleet.. As of December 31, 2017, 53% of our modular portfolio had equipment on rent for periods exceeding the original committed term.  Generally, when a customer continues to rent the modular units beyond the contractual term, the equipment rents on a month-to-month basis.  If a significant number of our rented modular units were returned during a short period of time, particularly those units that are rented on a month-to-month basis, a large supply of units would need to be remarketed.  Our failure to effectively remarket a. -23-. large influx of units returning from leases could negatively affect our financial performance and our ability to continue expanding our rental fleet.  In addition, if returned units stay off rent for an extended period of time, we may incur additional costs to securely store and maintain them.. Significant increases in raw material and labor costs could increase our acquisition cost of new modular rental units and repair and maintenance costs of our fleet, which would increase our operating costs and harm our profitability.. We incur labor costs and purchase raw materials, including lumber, siding and roofing and other products to perform periodic repairs, modifications and refurbishments to maintain physical conditions of our modular units.  The volume, timing and mix of maintenance and repair work on our rental equipment may vary quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year.  Generally, increases in labor and raw material costs will also increase the acquisition cost of new modular units and increase the repair and maintenance costs of our fleet.  We also maintain a fleet of service trucks and use subcontractor companies for the delivery, set-up, return delivery and dismantle of modulars for our customers. We rely on our subcontractor service companies to meet customer demands for timely shipment and return, and the loss or inadequate number of subcontractor service companies may cause prices to increase, while negatively impacting our reputation and operating performance. During periods of rising prices for labor, raw materials or fuel, and in particular, when the prices increase rapidly or to levels significantly higher than normal, we may incur significant increases in our acquisition costs for new modular units and incur higher operating costs that we may not be able to recoup from our customers, which would reduce our profitability.. Failure by third parties to manufacture our products timely or properly may harm our reputation and financial condition.. We are dependent on third parties to manufacture our products even though we are able to purchase products from a variety of third-party suppliers. Mobile Modular purchases new modulars from various manufacturers who build to Mobile Modular's design specifications.  With the exception of Enviroplex, none of the principal suppliers are affiliated with the Company.  During 2017, Mobile Modular purchased 36% of its modular product from one manufacturer.  The Company believes that the loss of any of its primary manufacturers of modulars could have an adverse effect on its operations since Mobile Modular could experience higher prices and longer delivery lead times for modular product until other manufacturers were able to increase their production capacity.. Failure to properly design, manufacture, repair and maintain the modular product may result in impairment charges, potential litigation and reduction of our operating results and cash flows.. We estimate the useful life of the modular product to be 18 years with a residual value of 50%.  However, proper design, manufacture, repairs and maintenance of the modular product during our ownership is required for the product to reach the estimated useful life of 18 years with a residual value of 50%.  If we do not appropriately manage the design, manufacture, repair and maintenance of our modular product, or otherwise delay or defer such repair or maintenance, we may be required to incur impairment charges for equipment that is beyond economic repair costs or incur significant capital expenditures to acquire new modular product to serve demand.  In addition, such failures may result in personal injury or property damage claims, including claims based on presence of mold, and termination of leases or contracts by customers.  Costs of contract performance, potential litigation, and profits lost from termination could accordingly reduce our future operating results and cash flows.. Our warranty costs may increase and warranty claims could damage our reputation and negatively impact our revenues and operating income.. Sales of new relocatable modular buildings not manufactured by us are typically covered by warranties provided by the manufacturer of the products sold.  We provide ninety-day warranties on certain modular sales of used rental units and one-year warranties on equipment manufactured by our Enviroplex subsidiary.  Historically, our warranty costs have not been significant, and we monitor the quality of our products closely.  If a defect were to arise in the installation of our equipment at the customer's facilities or in the equipment acquired from our suppliers or by our Enviroplex subsidiary, we may experience increased warranty claims.  Such claims could disrupt our sales operations, damage our reputation and require costly repairs or other remedies, negatively impacting revenues and operating income.. SPECIFIC RISKS RELATED TO OUR ELECTRONIC TEST EQUIPMENT BUSINESS SEGMENT:. Market risk and cyclical downturns in the industries using test equipment may result in periods of low demand for our product resulting in excess inventory, impairment charges and reduction of our operating results and cash flows.. TRS-RenTelco's revenues are derived from the rental and sale of general purpose and communications test equipment to a broad range of companies, from Fortune 500 to middle and smaller market companies, in the aerospace, defense, communications, manufacturing and semiconductor industries.  Electronic test equipment rental and sales revenues are primarily affected by the. -24-. business activity within these industries related to research and development, manufacturing, and communication infrastructure installation and maintenance.  Historically, these industries have been cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns, which can have a material adverse impact on the industry's demand for equipment, including our rental electronic test equipment. In addition, the severity and length of any downturn in an industry may also affect overall access to capital, which could adversely affect our customers and result in excess inventory and impairment charges.  During periods of reduced and declining demand for test equipment, we are exposed to additional receivable risk from non-payment and may need to rapidly align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions, which may negatively impact our operating results and cash flows.. Seasonality of our electronic test equipment business may impact quarterly results.. Generally, rental activity declines in the fourth quarter month of December and the first quarter months of January and February.  These months may have lower rental activity due to holiday closures, particularly by larger companies, inclement weather and its impact on various field related communications equipment rentals, and companies' operational recovery from holiday closures which may impact the start-up of new projects coming online in the first quarter.  These seasonal factors historically have impacted quarterly results in each year's first and fourth quarter, but we are unable to predict how such factors may impact future periods.. Our rental test equipment may become obsolete or may no longer be supported by a manufacturer, which could result in an impairment charge.. Electronic test equipment is characterized by changing technology and evolving industry standards that may render our existing equipment obsolete through new product introductions, or enhancements, before the end of its anticipated useful life, causing us to incur impairment charges. We must anticipate and keep pace with the introduction of new hardware, software and networking technologies and acquire equipment that will be marketable to our current and prospective customers.. Additionally, some manufacturers of our equipment may be acquired or cease to exist, resulting in a future lack of support for equipment purchased from those manufacturers.   This could result in the remaining useful life becoming shorter, causing us to incur an impairment charge.  We monitor our manufacturers' capacity to support their products and the introduction of new technologies, and we acquire equipment that will be marketable to our current and prospective customers. However, any prolonged economic downturn could result in unexpected bankruptcies or reduced support from our manufacturers.  Failure to properly select, manage and respond to the technological needs of our customers and changes to our products through their technology life cycle may cause certain electronic test equipment to become obsolete, resulting in impairment charges, which may negatively impact operating results and cash flows.. If we do not effectively compete in the rental equipment market, our operating results will be materially and adversely affected.. The electronic test equipment rental business is characterized by intense competition from several competitors, including Electro Rent Corporation, Continental Resources and TestEquity, some of which may have access to greater financial and other resources than we do. Although no single competitor holds a dominant market share, we face competition from these established entities and new entrants in the market.  We believe that we anticipate and keep pace with the introduction of new products and acquire equipment that will be marketable to our current and prospective customers.  We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including product availability, price, service and reliability.  Some of our competitors may offer similar equipment for lease, rental or sale at lower prices and may offer more extensive servicing, or financing options.  Failure to adequately forecast the adoption of, and demand for, new or existing products may cause us not to meet our customers' equipment requirements and may materially and adversely affect our operating results.. If we are not able to obtain equipment at favorable rates, there could be a material adverse effect on our operating results and reputation.. The majority of our rental equipment portfolio is comprised of general purpose test and measurement instruments purchased from leading manufacturers such as Keysight Technologies (formerly Agilent Technologies) and Tektronix, a division of Fortive Corporation.  We depend on purchasing equipment from these manufacturers and suppliers for use as our rental equipment. If, in the future, we are not able to purchase necessary equipment from one or more of these suppliers on favorable terms, we may not be able to meet our customers' demands in a timely manner or for a rental rate that generates a profit. If this should occur, we may not be able to secure necessary equipment from an alternative source on acceptable terms and our business and reputation may be materially and adversely affected.. -25-. If we are not able to anticipate and mitigate the risks associated with operating internationally, there could be a material adverse effect on our operating results.. Currently, total foreign country customers and operations account for less than 10% of the Company's revenues.  In recent years some of our customers have expanded their international operations faster than domestic operations, and this trend may continue.   Over time, we anticipate the amount of our international business may increase if our focus on international market opportunities continues. Operating in foreign countries subjects the Company to additional risks, any of which may adversely impact our future operating results, including:. •  international political, economic and legal conditions including tariffs and trade barriers;. •  our ability to comply with customs, anti-corruption, import/export and other trade compliance regulations, together with any unexpected changes in such regulations;. •  greater difficulty in our ability to recover rental equipment and obtain payment of the related trade receivables;. •  additional costs to establish and maintain international subsidiaries and related operations;. •  difficulties in attracting and retaining staff and business partners to operate internationally;. •  language and cultural barriers;. •  seasonal reductions in business activities in the countries where our international customers are located;. •  difficulty with the integration of foreign operations;. •  longer payment cycles;. •  currency fluctuations; and. •  potential adverse tax consequences.. Unfavorable currency exchange rates may negatively impact our financial results in U.S. dollar terms.. We receive revenues in Canadian dollars from our business activities in Canada.  Conducting business in currencies other than U.S. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  If the currency exchange rates change unfavorably, the value of net receivables we receive in foreign currencies and later convert to U.S. dollars after the unfavorable change would be diminished.  This could have a negative impact on our reported operating results.  We currently do not engage in hedging strategies to mitigate this risk.. SPECIFIC RISKS RELATED TO OUR LIQUID AND SOLID CONTAINMENT TANKS AND BOXES BUSINESS SEGMENT:. We may be brought into tort or environmental litigation or held responsible for cleanup of spills if the customer fails to perform, or an accident occurs in the use of our rental products, which could materially adversely affect our business, future operating results or financial position.. Our rental tanks and boxes are used by our customers to store non-hazardous and certain hazardous liquids and solids on the customer's site.  Our customers are generally responsible for proper operation of our tank and box rental equipment while on rent and returning a cleaned and undamaged container upon completion of use, but exceptions may be granted and we cannot always assure that these responsibilities are fully met in all cases.  Although we require the customer to carry commercial general liability insurance in a minimum amount of $5,000,000, such policies often contain pollution exclusions and other exceptions.  Furthermore, we cannot be certain our liability insurance will always be sufficient.  In addition, if an accident were to occur involving our rental equipment or a spill of substances were to occur when the tank or box was in transport or on rent with our customer, a claim could be made against us as owner of the rental equipment.. In the event of a spill or accident, we may be brought into a lawsuit or enforcement action by either our customer or a third party on numerous potential grounds, including an allegation that an inherent flaw in a tank or box contributed to an accident or that the tank had suffered some undiscovered harm from a previous customer's prior use.  In the event of a spill caused by our customers, we may be held responsible for cleanup under environmental laws and regulations concerning obligations of suppliers of rental products to effect remediation.  In addition, applicable environmental laws and regulations may impose liability on us for the conduct of third parties, or for actions that complied with applicable regulations when taken, regardless of negligence or fault.  Substantial damage awards have also been made in certain jurisdictions against lessors of industrial equipment based upon claims of personal injury, property damage, and resource damage caused by the use of various products.  While we take what we believe. -26-. are reasonable precautions that our rental equipment is in good and safe condition prior to rental and carry insurance to protect against certain risks of loss or accidents, such liability could adversely impact our profitability.. The liquid and solid containment rental industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could lead to a decrease in our market share or in rental rates and our ability to rent, or sell, equipment at favorable prices, which could adversely affect our operating results.. The liquid and solid containment rental industry is highly competitive.  We compete against national, regional and local companies, including BakerCorp, Rain For Rent and Mobile Mini, all of which may be larger than we are and both of which may have greater financial and marketing resources than we have.  Some of our competitors also have longer operating histories, lower cost basis of rental equipment, lower cost structures and more established relationships with equipment manufacturers than we have. In addition, certain of our competitors are more geographically diverse than we are and have greater name recognition among customers than we do.  As a result, our competitors that have these advantages may be better able to attract customers and provide their products and services at lower rental rates.  Some competitors offer different approaches to liquid storage, such as large-volume modular tanks that may have better economics and compete with conventional frac tanks in certain oil and gas field applications. We may in the future encounter increased competition in the markets that we serve from existing competitors or from new market entrants.. We believe that equipment quality, service levels, rental rates and fleet size are key competitive factors in the liquid and solid containment rental industry.  From time to time, we or our competitors may attempt to compete aggressively by lowering rental rates or prices. Competitive pressures could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by decreasing our market share or depressing rental rates.  To the extent we lower rental rates or increase our fleet in order to retain or increase market share, our operating margins would be adversely impacted.  In addition, we may not be able to match a larger competitor's price reductions or fleet investment because of its greater financial resources, all of which could adversely impact our operating results through a combination of a decrease in our market share, revenues and operating income.. Market risk, commodity price volatility, regulatory changes or interruptions and cyclical downturns in the industries using tanks and boxes may result in periods of low demand for our products resulting in excess inventory, impairment charges and reduction of our operating results and cash flows.. Adler Tanks' revenues are derived from the rental of tanks and boxes to companies involved in oil and gas exploration, extraction and refinement, environmental remediation and wastewater/groundwater treatment, infrastructure and building construction and various industrial services, among others.  In the quarter and twelve months ended December 31, 2017, oil and gas exploration and production accounted for approximately 10% and 9%, respectively, of Adler Tanks' rental revenues, and approximately 2% of the Company's total revenues for the same periods.  We expect tank and box rental revenues will primarily be affected by the business activity within these industries.  Historically, these industries have been cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns, which have a material adverse impact on the industry's demand for equipment, including the tanks and boxes rented by us.  Lower oil or gas prices may have an adverse effect on our liquid and solid containment tanks and boxes business. Any steep decline in both domestic and international oil prices driven by materially higher supply levels and weak demand could have a significant negative impact on the industry's demand for equipment, especially if such market conditions continue for an extended period of time.  If the price reduction causes customers to limit or stop exploration, extraction or refinement activities, resulting in lower demand and pricing for renting Adler Tank's products, our financial results could be adversely impacted.  Also, a weak U.S. economy may negatively impact infrastructure construction and industrial activity.  Any of these factors may result in excess inventory or impairment charges and reduce our operating results and cash flows.. Changes in regulatory, or governmental, oversight of hydraulic fracturing could materially adversely affect the demand for our rental products and reduce our operating results and cash flows.. We believe that demand related to hydraulic fracturing has increased the total rental revenues and market size in recent years. Oil and gas exploration and extraction (including use of tanks for hydraulic fracturing to obtain shale oil and shale gas) are subject to numerous local, state and federal regulations.  The hydraulic fracturing method of extraction has come under scrutiny in several states and by the Federal government due to the potential adverse effects that hydraulic fracturing, and the liquids and chemicals used, may have on water quality and public health.  In addition, the disposal of wastewater from the hydraulic fracturing process into injection wells may increase the rate of seismic activity near drill sites and could result in regulatory changes, delays or interruption of future activity.  Changes in these regulations could limit, interrupt, or stop exploration and extraction activities, which would negatively impact the demand for our rental products.  Finally, it is possible that changes in the technology utilized in hydraulic fracturing could make it less dependent on liquids and therefore lower the related requirements for the use of our rental products, which would reduce our operating results and cash flows.. -27-. Seasonality of the liquid and solid containment rental industry may impact quarterly results.. Rental activity may decline in the fourth quarter month of December and the first quarter months of January and February.  These months may have lower rental activity in parts of the country where inclement weather may delay, or suspend, a company's project.  The impact of these delays may be to decrease the number of tanks, or boxes, on rent until companies are able to resume their projects when weather improves.  These seasonal factors historically have impacted quarterly results in each year's first and fourth quarter, but we are unable to predict how such factors may impact future periods.. Significant increases in raw material, fuel and labor costs could increase our acquisition and operating costs of rental equipment, which would increase operating costs and decrease profitability.. Increases in raw material costs such as steel and labor to manufacture liquid and solid containment tanks and boxes would increase the cost of acquiring new equipment.  These price increases could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations if we are not able to recoup these increases through higher rental revenues.  In addition, a significant amount of revenues are generated from the transport of rental equipment to and from customers.  We own delivery trucks, employ drivers and utilize subcontractors to provide these services.  The price of fuel can be unpredictable and beyond our control.  During periods of rising fuel and labor costs, and in particular when prices increase rapidly, we may not be able recoup these costs from our customers, which would reduce our profitability.. Failure by third parties to manufacture our products timely or properly may harm our ability to meet customer demand and harm our financial condition.. We are dependent on a variety of third party companies to manufacture equipment to be used in our rental fleet. In some cases, we may not be able to procure equipment on a timely basis to the extent that manufacturers for the quantities of equipment we need are not able to produce sufficient inventory on schedules that meet our delivery requirements.  If demand for new equipment increases significantly, especially during a seasonal manufacturing slowdown, manufacturers may not be able to meet customer orders on a timely basis.  As a result, we at times may experience long lead-times for certain types of new equipment and we cannot assure that we will be able to acquire the types or sufficient numbers of the equipment we need to grow our rental fleet as quickly as we would like and this could harm our ability to meet customer demand and harm our financial condition.. We derive a meaningful amount of our revenue in our liquid and solid containment tank and boxes business from a limited number of customers, the loss of one or more of which could have an adverse effect on our business.. Periodically, a meaningful portion of our revenue in our liquid and solid containment tank and boxes business may be generated from a few major customers.  Although we have some long-term relationships with our major customers, we cannot be assured that our customers will continue to use our products or services or that they will continue to do so at historical levels.  The loss of any meaningful customer, the failure to collect a material receivable from a meaningful customer, any material reduction in orders by a meaningful customer or the cancellation of a meaningful customer order could significantly reduce our revenues and consequently harm our financial condition and our ability to fund our operations.. We may not be able to quickly redeploy equipment returning from leases at equivalent prices.. Many of our rental transactions are short-term in nature with pricing established on a daily basis.  The length of time that a customer needs equipment can often be difficult to determine and can be impacted by a number of factors such as weather, customer funding and project delays.  In addition, our equipment is primarily used in the oil and gas, industrial plant services, environmental remediation and infrastructure and building construction industries.  Changes in the economic conditions facing any of those industries could result in a significant number of units returning off rent, both for us and our competitors.. If the supply of rental equipment available on the market significantly increases due to units coming off rent, demand for and pricing of our rental products could be adversely impacted.  We may experience delays in remarketing our off-rent units to new customers and incur cost to move the units to other regions where demand is stronger.  Actions in these circumstances by our competitors may also depress the market price for rental units.  These delays and price pressures would adversely affect equipment utilization levels and total revenues, which would reduce our profitability."
