[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following factors could adversely affect the Company's revenues, results of operations or financial condition. See also \"Forward-Looking Statements.\". Future economic and financial conditions could adversely impact our financial condition and results.. Advertising, marketing and communications expenditures are sensitive to global, national and regional macroeconomic conditions, as well as specific budgeting levels and buying patterns. Adverse developments including heightened uncertainty could reduce the demand for our services, which could adversely affect our revenue, results of operations, and financial position in 2018.. a. As a marketing services company, our revenues are highly susceptible to declines as a result of unfavorable economic conditions.. Global economic conditions affect the advertising and marketing services industry more severely than other industries. In the past, some clients have responded to weakening economic conditions with reductions to their marketing budgets, which include discretionary components that are easier to reduce in the short term than other operating expenses. This pattern may recur in the. 5. TABLE OF CONTENTS. future. Decreases in our revenue would negatively affect our financial results, including a reduction of our estimates of free cash flow from operations.. b. If our clients experience financial distress, their weakened financial position could negatively affect our own financial position and results.. We have a diverse client base, and at any given time, one or more of our clients may experience financial difficulty, file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business. The unfavorable economic and financial conditions that have impacted many sectors of the global economy could result in an increase in client financial difficulties that affect us. The direct impact on us could include reduced revenues and write offs of accounts receivable. If these effects were severe, the indirect impact could include impairments of goodwill, covenant violations relating to MDC's senior secured revolving credit agreement (the \"Credit Agreement\") or the $900 million aggregate principal amount of 6.50% notes due 2024 (the \"6.50% Notes\"), or reduced liquidity. Our ten largest clients (measured by revenue generated) accounted for 23% of our revenue in 2017.. c. Conditions in the credit markets could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position.. Turmoil in the credit markets or a contraction in the availability of credit would make it more difficult for businesses to meet their capital requirements and could lead clients to change their financial relationship with their vendors, including us. If that were to occur, it could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial position.. MDC competes for clients in highly competitive industries.. The Company operates in a highly competitive environment in an industry characterized by numerous firms of varying sizes, with no single firm or group of firms having a dominant position in the marketplace. MDC is, however, smaller than several of its larger industry competitors. Competitive factors include creative reputation, management, personal relationships, quality and reliability of service and expertise in particular niche areas of the marketplace. In addition, because a firm's principal asset is its people, barriers to entry are minimal, and relatively small firms are, on occasion, able to take all or some portion of a client's business from a larger competitor.. While many of MDC's client relationships are long-standing, companies put their advertising and marketing services businesses up for competitive review from time to time, including at times when clients enter into strategic transactions or experienced senior management changes. From year to year, the identities of MDC's ten largest customers may change, as a result of client losses and additions and other factors. To the extent that the Company fails to maintain existing clients or attract new clients, MDC's business, financial condition and operating results may be affected in a materially adverse manner.. The loss of lines of credit under the Credit Agreement could adversely affect MDC's liquidity and our ability to implement MDC's acquisition strategy and fund any put options if exercised.. MDC uses amounts available under the Credit Agreement, together with cash flow from operations, to fund its working capital needs, to fund the exercise of put option obligations and to fund our strategy of making selective acquisitions of ownership interests in entities in the marketing communications services industry, including through contingent deferred acquisition payments.. The Company is currently in compliance with all of the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement. If, however, events were to occur, which result in MDC losing all or a substantial portion of its available credit under the Credit Agreement, or if MDC was prevented from accessing such lines of credit due to other restrictions such as those in the indenture governing the 6.50% Notes, MDC could be required to seek other sources of liquidity. In addition, if MDC were unable to replace this source of liquidity, then MDC's ability to fund its working capital needs and any contingent obligations with respect to put options or contingent deferred acquisition payments would be materially adversely affected.. We have significant contingent obligations related to deferred acquisition consideration and noncontrolling interests in our subsidiaries, which will require us to utilize our cash flow and/or to incur additional debt to satisfy.. The Company has made a number of acquisitions for which it has deferred payment of a portion of the purchase price, usually for a period between one to five years after the acquisition. The deferred acquisition consideration is generally payable based on achievement of certain thresholds of future earnings of the acquired company and, in certain cases, also based on the rate of growth of those earnings. Once any contingency is resolved, the Company may pay the contingent consideration over time.. The Company records liabilities on its balance sheet for deferred acquisition payments at their estimated value based on the current performance of the business, which are remeasured each quarter. At December 31, 2017, these aggregate liabilities were $122.4 million, of which  $50.2 million, $29.6 million, $24.9 million and $17.7 million would be payable in 2018, 2019, 2020 and thereafter, respectively.. In addition to the Company's obligations for deferred acquisition consideration, managers of certain of the Company's acquired subsidiaries hold noncontrolling interests in such subsidiaries. In the case of certain noncontrolling interests related to acquisitions, such managers are entitled to a proportionate distribution of earnings from the relevant subsidiary, which is recognized on the Company's consolidated income statement under \"Net income attributable to the noncontrolling interests.\". 6. TABLE OF CONTENTS. Noncontrolling shareholders often have the right to require the Company to purchase all or part of its interest, either at specified dates or upon the termination of such shareholder's employment with the subsidiary or death (put rights). In addition, the Company usually has rights to call noncontrolling shareholders' interests at a specified date. The purchase price for both puts and calls is typically calculated based on specified formulas tied to the financial performance of the subsidiary.. The Company recorded $62.9 million on its December 31, 2017 balance sheet as redeemable noncontrolling interests for its estimated obligations in respect of noncontrolling shareholder put and call rights based on the current performance of the subsidiaries, $15.9 million of which related to put rights for which, if exercised, the payments are due at specified dates, with the remainder of redeemable noncontrolling interests attributable to put or call rights exercisable only upon termination of employment or death. No estimated obligation is recorded on the balance sheet for noncontrolling interests for which the Company has a call right but the noncontrolling holder has no put right.. Payments to be made by the Company in respect of deferred acquisition consideration and noncontrolling shareholder put rights may be significantly higher than the estimated amounts described above because the actual obligation adjusts based on the performance of the acquired businesses over time, including future growth in earnings from the calculations made at December 31, 2017. Similarly, the payments made by the Company under call rights would increase with growth in earnings of the acquired businesses. The Company expects that deferred contingent consideration and noncontrolling interests for managers may be features of future acquisitions that it may undertake and that it may also grant similar noncontrolling interests to managers of its subsidiaries unrelated to acquisitions.. The Company expects that its obligations in respect of deferred acquisition consideration and payments to noncontrolling shareholders under put and call rights will be a significant use of the Company's liquidity in the foreseeable future, whether in the form of free cash flow or borrowings under the Company's revolving credit agreement or from other funding sources. For further information, see the disclosure under the heading \"Business  -  Ownership Information\" and the heading \"Liquidity and Capital Resources.\". MDC may not realize the benefits it expects from past acquisitions or acquisitions MDC may make in the future.. MDC's business strategy includes ongoing efforts to engage in acquisitions of ownership interests in entities in the marketing communications services industry. MDC intends to finance these acquisitions by using available cash from operations and through incurrence of debt or bridge financing, either of which may increase its leverage ratios, or by issuing equity, which may have a dilutive impact on its existing shareholders. At any given time, MDC may be engaged in a number of discussions that may result in one or more material acquisitions. These opportunities require confidentiality and may involve negotiations that require quick responses by MDC. Although there is uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transactions, the announcement of any such transaction may lead to increased volatility in the trading price of its securities.. Our expenses have, in certain periods, increased at a greater rate than revenues, which in part reflects both the increase in expenses for deferred acquisition consideration and from our investment in headcount for certain growth initiatives. Should our acquisitions continue to outperform current expectations, expenses for deferred acquisition consideration could increase as well in future periods. If our growth initiatives do not provide sufficient revenue to offset the incremental costs in future periods, profits could be reduced and severance expense could be incurred in order to return to targeted profit margins over time.. The success of acquisitions or strategic investments depends on the effective integration of newly acquired businesses into MDC's current operations. Such integration is subject to risks and uncertainties, including realization of anticipated synergies and cost savings, the ability to retain and attract personnel and clients, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, and undisclosed or potential legal liabilities of the acquired company. MDC may not realize the strategic and financial benefits that it expects from any of its past acquisitions, or any future acquisitions.. MDC's business could be adversely affected if it loses key clients or executives.. MDC's strategy has been to acquire ownership stakes in diverse marketing communications businesses to minimize the effects that might arise from the loss of any one client or executive. The loss of one or more clients could materially affect the results of the individual Partner Firms and the Company as a whole. Management succession at our operating units is very important to the ongoing results of the Company because, as in any service business, the success of a particular agency is dependent upon the leadership of key executives and management personnel. If key executives were to leave our operating units, the relationships that MDC has with its clients could be adversely affected.. MDC's ability to generate new business from new and existing clients may be limited.. To increase its revenues, MDC needs to obtain additional clients or generate demand for additional services from existing clients. MDC's ability to generate initial demand for its services from new clients and additional demand from existing clients is subject to such clients' and potential clients' requirements, pre-existing vendor relationships, financial conditions, strategic plans and internal resources, as well as the quality of MDC's employees, services and reputation and the breadth of its services. To the. 7. TABLE OF CONTENTS. extent MDC cannot generate new business from new and existing clients due to these limitations, MDC's ability to grow its business and to increase its revenues will be limited.. MDC's business could be adversely affected if it loses or fails to attract key employees.. Employees, including creative, research, media, technology development, account and practice group specialists, and their skills and relationships with clients, are among MDC's most important assets. An important aspect of MDC's competitiveness is its ability to retain key employee and management personnel. Compensation for these key employees is an essential factor in attracting and retaining them, and MDC may not offer a level of compensation sufficient to attract and retain these key employees. If MDC fails to hire and retain a sufficient number of these key employees, it may not be able to compete effectively. If key executives were to leave our operating units, the relationships that MDC has with its clients could be adversely affected.. MDC is exposed to the risk of client defaults.. MDC's agencies often incur expenses on behalf of their clients for productions in order to secure a variety of media time and space, in exchange for which they receive a fee. The difference between the gross cost of the production and media and the net revenue earned by us can be significant. While MDC takes precautions against default on payment for these services (such as credit analysis and advance billing of clients) and has historically had a very low incidence of default, MDC is still exposed to the risk of significant uncollectible receivables from our clients. The risk of a material loss could significantly increase in periods of severe economic downturn. Such a loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. MDC's results of operations are subject to currency fluctuation risks.. Although MDC's financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, a portion of its revenues and operating costs are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, particularly the Canadian dollar, may affect MDC's financial results and competitive position.. Goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired.. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets in our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP resulting from our acquisition activities, which principally represents the specialized know-how of the workforce at the agencies we have acquired. We test, at least annually, the carrying value of goodwill for impairment, as discussed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein. The estimates and assumptions about future results of operations and cash flows made in connection with the impairment testing could differ from future actual results of operations and cash flows. As discussed in Note 2 and Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein, for the year ended December 31, 2017, we have recorded goodwill impairment of $3.2 million. For the year ended December 31, 2017 there was a reduction in goodwill of $17.6 million relating to the sale of certain subsidiaries. As a result of the these transactions, the Company performed interim goodwill testing on two reporting units and determined that there was no impairment charge in respect to the impacted reporting units.. MDC is subject to regulations and litigation risk that could restrict our activities or negatively impact our revenues.. Advertising and marketing communications businesses are subject to government regulation, both domestic and foreign. There has been an increasing tendency in the United States on the part of advertisers to resort to litigation and self-regulatory bodies to challenge comparative advertising on the grounds that the advertising is false and deceptive. Moreover, there has recently been an expansion of specific rules, prohibitions, media restrictions, labeling disclosures, and warning requirements with respect to advertising for certain products and the usage of personally identifiable information. Representatives within government bodies, both domestic and foreign, continue to initiate proposals to ban the advertising of specific products and to impose taxes on or deny deductions for advertising which, if successful, may have an adverse effect on advertising expenditures and consequently MDC's revenues.. Certain of MDC's agencies produce software and e-commerce tools for their clients, and these product offerings have become increasingly subject to litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we expand these product offerings, the possibility of an intellectual property claim against us grows. Any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations and may result in us deciding to enter into license agreements to avoid ongoing patent litigation costs. If we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop offering these services, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our clients. Such arrangements may cause our operating margins to decline.. In addition, laws and regulations related to user privacy, use of personal information and Internet tracking technologies have been proposed or enacted in the United States and certain international markets (including the European Union's recently enacted General Data Protection Regulation, or \"GDPR\"). These laws and regulations could affect the acceptance of the Internet as an advertising medium. These actions could affect our business and reduce demand for certain of our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.. 8. TABLE OF CONTENTS. We rely extensively on information technology systems.. We rely on information technologies and infrastructure to manage our business, including digital storage of client marketing and advertising information, developing new business opportunities and processing business transactions. Our information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to system failures and network disruptions, malicious intrusion and random attack. While we have taken what we believe are prudent measures to protect our data and information technology systems, we cannot assure you that our efforts will prevent system failures or network disruptions or breaches in our systems.  Any such breakdowns or breaches in our systems or data-protection policies could adversely affect our reputation or business.. The Company is subject to an ongoing securities class action litigation claim and a government investigation.. The Company remains subject to an ongoing securities class action litigation claim in Canada, although the U.S. securities class action was dismissed, with prejudice.  We maintain insurance for a lawsuit of this nature; however, our insurance coverage does not apply in all circumstances. Moreover, adverse publicity associated with this litigation claim could decrease client demand for our partner agencies' services.. In addition, in 2016 one of the Company's subsidiary agencies received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice Antitrust Division concerning its ongoing investigation of production practices in the advertising industry. The Company and its subsidiary are continuing to fully cooperate with this confidential investigation. Although the ultimate effect of this investigation is inherently uncertain, we do not at this time believe that the investigation will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. However, the ultimate resolution of this investigation could be materially different from our current assessment.. Future issuances of equity securities, which may include securities that would rank senior to our Class A shares, may cause dilution to our existing shareholders and adversely affect the market price of our Class A shares.. The market price of our Class A shares could decline as a result of sales of a large number of our Class A shares in the market, or the sale of securities convertible into a large number of our Class A shares. The perception that these sales could occur may also depress the market price of our Class A shares. On March 7, 2017, we issued 95,000 Series 4 convertible preference shares with an initial aggregate liquidation preference of $95.0 million, which will be convertible into Class A shares or our Series 5 convertible preference shares at an initial conversion price of $10.00 per share. The terms of the Preference Shares provide that the conversion price may be reduced, which would result in the Preference Shares being convertible into additional Class A shares, upon certain events including distributions on our Class A shares or issuances of additional Class A shares or equity-linked securities at a price less than the then-applicable conversion price. The conversion of the Preference Shares may adversely affect the market price of our Class A shares, and the market price of our Class A shares may be affected by factors, such as whether the market price is near or above the conversion price, that could make conversion of the Preference Shares more likely. In addition, the Preference Shares rank senior to the Class A shares, which could affect the value of the Class A shares on liquidation or, as a result of contractual provisions, on a change in control transaction. For example, pursuant to the Purchase Agreement related to the issuance of the Preference Shares, the Company has agreed with the Purchaser, with certain exceptions, not to become party to certain change in control transactions that are approved by the Board other than a qualifying transaction in which holders of Preference Shares are entitled to receive cash or qualifying listed securities with a value equal to the then-applicable liquidation preference plus accrued and unpaid dividends. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding the terms of the Preference Shares.. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our Class A shares, and may result in dilution to owners of our Class A shares. Because our decision to issue additional debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future issuances. Also, we cannot predict the effect, if any, of future issuances of our Class A shares on the market price of our Class A shares.. The indenture governing the 6.50% Notes and the Credit Agreement governing our secured line of credit contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business.. The indenture governing the 6.50% Notes and the Credit Agreement governing our lines of credit contain various provisions that limit our discretion in the operation of our business by restricting our ability to:. • sell assets;. • pay dividends and make other distributions;. • redeem or repurchase our capital stock;. • incur additional debt and issue capital stock;. • create liens;. 9. TABLE OF CONTENTS. • consolidate, merge or sell substantially all of our assets;. • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates;. • make loans, investments or advances;. • repay subordinated indebtedness;. • undergo a change in control;. • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates;. • engage in new lines of business; and. • enter into sale and leaseback transactions.. These restrictions on our ability to operate our business in our discretion could seriously harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, mergers and acquisitions and other corporate opportunities. The Credit Agreement is subject to various additional covenants, including a senior leverage ratio, a total leverage ratio, a fixed charge coverage ratio, and a minimum EBITDA level (as defined). Events beyond our control could affect our ability to meet these financial tests, and we cannot assure you that they will be met.. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our cash flow and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations, including the 6.50% Notes.. As of December 31, 2017, MDC had $883.1 million, net of debt issuance costs, of indebtedness. In addition, we expect to make additional drawings under the Credit Agreement from time to time. Our ability to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries' business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet MDC's debt service and other obligations. If we are unable to meet our expenses and debt service obligations, we may need to obtain additional debt, refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets or raise equity. We may not be able to obtain additional debt, refinance any of our indebtedness, sell assets or raise equity on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, to obtain additional debt or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; the lenders under the Credit Agreement could terminate their commitments to loan us money and foreclose against the assets securing our borrowings; and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could:. • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the 6.50% Notes;. • make it difficult for us to meet our obligations with respect to our contingent deferred acquisition payments;. • limit our ability to increase our ownership stake in our Partner Firms;. • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and other activities;. • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the advertising industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and. • limit, particularly in concert with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, our ability to borrow additional funds or take other actions.. Despite our current debt levels, we may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness, which could further increase the risks associated with our leverage.. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of our Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the 6.50% Notes permit us and our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness subject to certain limitations. If we or our subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness, the related risks that we face could increase.. We may be subject to adverse tax consequences such as those related to changes in tax laws or tax rates or their interpretations, and the related application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities or other tax liabilities given the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.. We are a Canada-domiciled multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities and in evaluating our. 10. TABLE OF CONTENTS. tax positions on a worldwide basis. While we believe our tax positions are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, it is possible that these positions may be overturned by jurisdictional tax authorities, which may have a significant impact on our global provision for income taxes.. Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. The U.S. recently enacted significant tax reform, and certain provisions of the new law may adversely affect us. In addition, governmental tax authorities are increasingly scrutinizing the tax positions of companies. Many countries in the European Union, as well as a number of other countries and organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws that, if enacted, could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business. If U.S. or other foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted.. We are a holding company dependent on our subsidiaries for our ability to service our debt.. MDC is a holding company with no operations of our own. Consequently, our ability to service our debt is dependent upon the earnings from the businesses conducted by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to provide us with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. Although our operating subsidiaries have generally agreed to allow us to consolidate and \"sweep\" cash, subject to the timing of payments due to noncontrolling interest holders, any distribution of earnings to us from our subsidiaries is contingent upon the subsidiaries' earnings and various other business considerations. Also, our right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization, and therefore the right of the holders of common stock to participate in those assets, will be structurally subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors. In addition, even if we were a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of our subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries senior to that held by us."
