[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and you should carefully consider them. Accordingly, in evaluating our business, we encourage you to consider the following discussion of risk factors, in its entirety, in addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings with the SEC. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception and expect that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future.. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we had a net loss of $11.2 million. At December 31, 2017, from inception, our accumulated deficit was $341.5 million. We expect to incur substantial net losses for the next several years as we continue to develop certain of our existing product development candidates, and over the long-term if we expand our research and development programs and acquire or in-license products, technologies or businesses that are complementary to our own. As of December 31, 2017, we had available cash and cash equivalents of $28.0 million and working capital of $25.4 million. There can be no assurances that there will be adequate financing available to us in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we may have to out-license or sell one or more of our programs or cease operations.. Our future cash requirements will also depend on many factors, including:. •  progress in, and the costs of future planned clinical trials and other research and development activities;     •  the scope, prioritization and number of our product development programs;     •  our obligations under our license agreements, pursuant to which we may be required to make future milestone payments upon the achievement of various milestones related to clinical, regulatory or commercial events;     •  our ability to establish and maintain strategic collaborations, including licensing agreements and other arrangements;     •  the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals;     •  the costs of securing manufacturing arrangements for clinical or commercial production of our product candidates;     •  the costs associated with any expansion of our management, personnel, systems and facilities;     •  the costs associated with any litigation;     •  the costs associated with the operations or wind-down of any business we may acquire;     •  the costs involved in filing, prosecuting, enforcing and defending patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and     •  the costs of establishing or contracting for sales and marketing capabilities and commercialization activities if we obtain regulatory approval to market our product candidates.. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in 2018 relative to 2017 as we continue our focus on the development of MN-166 (ibudilast) and MN-001 (tipelukast) in 2018. Our estimate of cash. 25. requirements for future operating expenses assumes that we do not incur significant additional new clinical development expenditures unless we raise additional capital and/or enter into one or more strategic alliances. We do expect to continue to incur significant operating losses for the foreseeable future. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing drug products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all.. If we have taxable income in the future, utilization of the net operating losses, or NOL, and tax credit carry-forwards will be subject to a substantial annual limitation under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and similar state provisions due to ownership change limitations that have occurred. These ownership changes will limit the amount of NOL and tax credit carry-forwards that can be utilized to offset future taxable income and tax, respectively.. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable to develop and commercialize our product candidates.. We have consumed substantial amounts of capital since our inception.. Our business will continue to require us to incur substantial research and development expenses. We believe that without raising additional capital from accessible sources of financing, we will not otherwise have adequate funding to continue our operations and to complete the development of our existing product candidates or the commercialization of any products we successfully develop. There is no guarantee that adequate funds will be available when needed from debt or equity financings, arrangements with partners, or from other sources, on terms attractive to us. The inability to obtain sufficient additional funds when needed to fund our operations would require us to significantly delay, scale back, or eliminate some or all of our clinical or regulatory activities and reduce general and administrative expenses.. We do not have any products that are approved for commercial sale and therefore do not expect to generate any revenues from product sales in the foreseeable future, if ever.. To date, we have funded our operations primarily from sales of our securities and, to a lesser extent, debt financing. We do not expect to receive any revenues from the commercialization of our product candidates for at least the next several years, if at all. We anticipate that, prior to our commercialization of a product candidate, out-licensing upfront and milestone payments will be our primary source of revenue if we can enter into collaborations, strategic alliances or other agreements that would provide us with such revenues. To obtain revenues from sales of our product candidates, we must succeed, either alone or with third parties, in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for, manufacturing and marketing drugs with commercial potential. We may never succeed in these activities, and we may not generate sufficient revenues to continue our business operations or achieve and maintain profitability.. We are largely dependent on the success of our MN-166 (ibudilast) and MN-001 (tipelukast) product candidates and we cannot be certain that these product candidates will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized.. We currently have no products for sale, and we cannot guarantee that we will ever have any drug products approved for sale. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, sales, marketing and distribution of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities in other countries. We are not permitted to market any of our product candidates in the United States until we submit and receive approval of a New Drug Application, or NDA, for a product candidate from the FDA or its foreign equivalent from a foreign regulatory authority. Obtaining FDA approval is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. The success of our business currently depends primarily on the successful development and commercialization of our MN-166 (ibudilast) and MN-001 (tipelukast) product candidates. These product candidates have not completed the clinical development process, and therefore we have not submitted an NDA or foreign equivalent or received marketing approval.. 26. The clinical development program for our product candidates may not lead to commercial products for a number of reasons, including our clinical trials' failure to demonstrate to the FDA's satisfaction that this product candidate is safe and effective, or our failure to obtain necessary approvals from the FDA or similar foreign regulatory authorities for any reason. We may also fail to obtain the necessary approvals if we have inadequate financial or other resources to advance our product candidates through the clinical trial process or are unable to secure a strategic collaboration or partnership with a third party. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials or obtaining regulatory approval for our product candidates in a timely manner would have a material and adverse impact on our business and our stock price.. Because the results of early clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, our product candidates we advance into clinical trials in any indication may not have favorable results in later clinical trials, if any, or receive regulatory approval.. Our product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. We will be required to demonstrate through well-controlled clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in a diverse population for its target indications before we can seek regulatory approvals for their commercial sale. Success in early clinical trials does not mean that later clinical trials will be successful because product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate sufficient safety or efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical testing, even at statistically significant levels.. Companies frequently suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after earlier clinical trials have shown promising results. Any of our planned clinical trials for our product candidates may not be successful for a variety of reasons, including the clinical trial designs, the failure to enroll a sufficient number of patients, undesirable side effects and other safety concerns and the inability to demonstrate sufficient efficacy. If a product candidate fails to demonstrate sufficient safety or efficacy, we would experience potentially significant delays in, or be required to abandon, development of such product candidate.. Our attempts to develop MN-001 (tipelukast) in NASH and IPF may detract from our efforts to develop other product candidates and may limit the effectiveness of our product development efforts as a whole.. We have decided to pursue development of MN-001 (tipelukast) in NASH and IPF. These activities will divert financial and management resources from our other product development activities and may limit our ability to complete or continue those other programs.. In order to commercialize a therapeutic drug successfully, a product candidate must receive regulatory approval after the successful completion of clinical trials, which are long, complex and costly, have a high risk of failure and can be delayed or terminated at any time.. Our product candidates are subject to extensive government regulations related to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. The process of obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is costly, time-consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. To receive regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates, we must conduct, at our own expense, adequate and well-controlled clinical trials in human patients to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of the product candidate. Clinical testing is expensive, takes many years and has an uncertain outcome. To date, we have obtained regulatory authorization to conduct clinical trials for our product development programs. INDs were approved by the FDA and are active for our product candidates.. It may take years to complete the clinical development necessary to commercialize a drug, and delays or failure can occur at any stage, which may result in our inability to market and sell any of our product candidates that are ultimately approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or non-clinical testing. Interim results of clinical trials do not necessarily predict final results, and success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials even after obtaining promising results in earlier clinical trials. In addition, any delays in completing clinical trials or the rejection of data. 27. from a clinical trial by a regulatory authority will result in increased development costs and could have a material adverse effect on the development of the impacted product candidate.. In connection with the conduct of clinical trials for each of our product candidates, we face many risks, including the risks that:. •  the product candidate may not prove to be effective in treating the targeted indication;     •  clinical trial participants and/or patients may experience serious adverse events or other undesirable drug-related side effects;     •  the results may not confirm the positive results of earlier trials;     •  the FDA or other regulatory authorities may not agree with our proposed development plans or accept the results of completed clinical trials; and     •  our planned clinical trials and the data collected from such clinical trials may be deemed by the FDA or other regulatory authorities not to be sufficient, which would require additional development for the product candidate before it can be evaluated in late stage clinical trials or before the FDA will consider an application for marketing approval.. If we do not complete clinical development of our product candidates successfully, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval to market products and generate revenues from such product candidates. We may also fail to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals if we have inadequate financial or other resources to advance our product candidates through the clinical trial process. In addition, even if we believe that the preclinical and clinical data are sufficient to support regulatory approval for a product candidate, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may not ultimately approve such product candidate for commercial sale in any jurisdiction, which would limit our ability to generate revenues and adversely affect our business. In addition, even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, they remain subject to ongoing FDA regulations, including obligations to conduct additional clinical trials, changes to the product label, new or revised regulatory requirements for manufacturing practices, written advisements to physicians, and/or a product recall or withdrawal.. We are subject to stringent regulation of our product candidates, which could delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates.. We, our third-party manufacturers, service providers, suppliers and partners, if any, and our product candidates are subject to stringent regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. None of our product candidates can be marketed in the United States until it has been approved by the FDA. None of our product candidates has been approved by the FDA to date, and we may never receive FDA approval for any of our product candidates. Obtaining FDA approval for a product takes many years of clinical development and requires substantial resources. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur or new information regarding the product candidate or the target indication may emerge, and we may need to perform additional, unanticipated non-clinical or clinical testing of our product candidates or amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Any additional unanticipated testing would add costs and could delay or result in the denial of regulatory approval for a product candidate. These regulatory requirements may limit the size of the market for the product candidate or result in the incurrence of additional costs. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could substantially reduce or negate our ability to generate revenues from the particular product candidate.. In addition, both before and after regulatory approval, we, our partners and our product candidates are subject to numerous FDA requirements, including requirements related to testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution and export. The FDA's requirements may change and additional government regulations may be promulgated that could affect us, our partners and our product candidates. Given the number of recent high profile adverse safety events with certain drug products, the FDA may require, as a condition of approval, costly risk management programs, which may include safety surveillance, restricted distribution and. 28. use, patient education, enhanced labeling, special packaging or labeling, expedited reporting of certain adverse events, preapproval of promotional materials and restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising. Furthermore, we cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad.. In order to market any of our products outside of the United States, we and our strategic partners and licensees must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods beyond the requirements of the FDA and the time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States Regulatory approval in one country, including FDA approval in the United States, does not ensure regulatory approval in another. In addition, a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. A product candidate may not be approved for all indications that we request, which would limit the uses of our product and adversely impact our potential royalties and product sales, and any approval that we receive may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies.. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the United States or other countries, we may be subject to regulatory and other consequences, including fines and other civil penalties, delays in approving or failure to approve a product, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions, interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials, injunctions and criminal prosecution, any of which would harm our business.. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, they may still face future development and regulatory difficulties.. Even if U.S. regulatory approval is obtained, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on a product's indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials. Any of these restrictions or requirements could adversely affect our potential product revenues. For example, the label ultimately approved for any of our other product candidates or any other product candidates that we may in-license or acquire, if any, may include a restriction on the terms of its use, or it may not include one or more of our intended indications.. Our product candidates, if approved, will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information on the drug. In addition, approved products, manufacturers and manufacturers' facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If our product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, such as cGMPs, a regulatory agency may:. •  issue warning letters or untitled letters;     •  require us to enter into a consent decree, which can include imposition of various fines, reimbursements for inspection costs, required due dates for specific actions and penalties for noncompliance;     •  impose other civil or criminal penalties;     •  suspend regulatory approval;     •  suspend any ongoing clinical trials;     •  refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us;. 29. •  impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or     •  seize or detain products or require a product recall.. Any of our product candidates that we advance into clinical trials may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent regulatory approval or commercialization or limit its commercial potential.. Undesirable side effects caused by any of our product candidates that we advance into clinical trials could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications, or cause us to evaluate the future of our development programs. This, in turn, could prevent us from commercializing the affected product candidate and generating revenues from its sale.. In addition, if any product candidates we may develop receives marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product, a number of significant negative consequences could result, including:. •  regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product or place restrictions on the way it is prescribed;     •  regulatory authorities may require a larger clinical benefit for approval to offset the risk;     •  regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements that could diminish the usage of the product or otherwise limit the commercial success of the product;     •  we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product or implement a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy;     •  we may choose to discontinue sale of the product;     •  we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients;     •  we may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements on acceptable terms and execute our business model; and     •  our reputation may suffer.. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical trials, or suspension or termination of our clinical trials, could result in increased costs to us and delay or limit our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates.. If we experience delays in the commencement or completion of our clinical trials, we could incur significantly higher product development costs and our ability to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates could be delayed or limited. The commencement and completion of clinical trials requires us to identify and maintain a sufficient number of study sites and enroll a sufficient number of patients at such sites. We do not know whether enrollment in our future clinical trials for our product candidates will be completed on time, or whether our additional planned and ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates will be completed on schedule, if at all.. The commencement and completion of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of other reasons, including delays in:. •  obtaining regulatory approval to commence or amend a clinical trial;. 30. •  reaching agreements on acceptable terms with prospective clinical research organizations, or CROs, and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites;     •  recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in clinical trials;     •  retaining patients who have initiated a clinical trial but who may be prone to withdraw due to the treatment protocol, lack of efficacy, personal issues or side effects from the therapy or who are lost to further follow-up;     •  manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate; and     •  IRB approval or approval from foreign counterparts to conduct or amend a clinical trial at a prospective site.. In addition, a clinical trial may be delayed, suspended or terminated by us, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including:. •  ongoing discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials or requests by them for supplemental information with respect to our clinical trial results, which may result in the imposition of a clinical hold on the IND for any clinical trial, as well as the inability to resolve any outstanding concerns with the FDA so that a clinical hold already placed on the IND may be lifted and the clinical trial may begin;     •  inspections of our own clinical trial operations, the operations of our CROs or our clinical trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, which may result in the imposition of a clinical hold or potentially prevent us from using some of the data generated from our clinical trials to support requests for regulatory approval of our product candidates;     •  our failure or inability, or the failure or inability of our CROs, clinical trial site staff or other third party service providers involved in the clinical trial, to conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols;     •  lower than anticipated enrollment or retention rates of patients in clinical trials;     •  new information suggesting unacceptable risk to subjects or unforeseen safety issues or any determination that a clinical trial presents unacceptable health risks;     •  insufficient supply or deficient quality of product candidates or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials;     •  lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial, including the incurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies and increased expenses associated with the services of our CROs and other third parties; and     •  the formulation or dosing regimen of a product candidate may result, unintentionally, in patient non-compliance, leading to low patient retention rates, incomplete data to conduct an adequate analysis, and failure to complete the trial.. If we experience delays in the completion of our clinical trials for a product candidate, the commercial prospects for such product candidate may be harmed, we may incur increased costs for development of such product candidate and our ability to obtain regulatory approval for such product candidate could be delayed or limited. Many of the factors that cause or lead to delays in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval for a product candidate. In addition, any amendment to a clinical trial. 31. protocol may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs or their foreign counterparts for reexamination, which may delay or otherwise impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial.. The loss of any rights to develop and market any of our product candidates could significantly harm our business.. We license the rights to certain compounds to develop and market our product candidates.. We are obligated to develop and commercialize certain product candidates in accordance with mutually agreed upon terms and conditions. Our ability to satisfy some or all of the terms and conditions of our license agreements is dependent on numerous factors, including some factors that are outside of our control. Any of our license agreements may be terminated if we breach our obligations under the agreement materially and fail to cure any such breach within a specified period of time.. If any of our license agreements is terminated, we would have no further rights to develop and commercialize the product candidate that is the subject of the license. The termination of any of our license agreements could materially and adversely affect our business.. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than our product candidates, they may reduce or eliminate our commercial opportunities.. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are subject to rapid and intense technological change. We face, and will continue to face, competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as numerous academic and research institutions and governmental agencies, in the United States and abroad. Some of these competitors have products or are pursuing the development of drugs that target the same diseases and conditions that are the focus of our product development programs. We cannot assure you that developments by others will not render our product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Many of our competitors have products that have been approved or are in advanced development and may succeed in developing drugs that are more effective, safer, more affordable or more easily administered than ours, or that achieve patent protection or commercialization sooner than our products. Our competitors may also develop alternative therapies that could further limit the market for any product candidates that we are able to obtain approval for, if at all. In addition, new developments, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, occur in the pharmaceutical industry at a rapid pace. These developments may render our product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive.. In many of our target disease areas, potential competitors are working to develop new compounds with different mechanisms of action and attractive efficacy and safety profiles. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, research and development resources, including personnel and technology, clinical trial experience, manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities and production facilities than we do. Smaller companies also may prove to be significant competitors, particularly through proprietary research discoveries and collaboration arrangements with large pharmaceutical and established biotechnology companies.. Our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we are able to or may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are more effective and less costly than ours and may also be more successful than us in manufacturing and marketing their products. We also expect to face similar competition in our efforts to identify appropriate collaborators or partners to help develop or commercialize our product candidates.. We will depend on strategic collaborations with third parties to develop and commercialize selected product candidates and will not have control over a number of key elements relating to the development and commercialization of these product candidates if we are able to achieve such third-party arrangements.. A key aspect of our strategy is to seek collaborations with partners, such as large pharmaceutical companies, that are willing to conduct later-stage clinical trials and further develop and commercialize selected product. 32. candidates. To date, we have not entered into any such collaborative arrangements, and we may not be able to enter into any collaborations or otherwise monetize these product candidates on acceptable terms, if at all.. By entering into a strategic collaboration with a partner, we may rely on the partner for financial resources and for development, regulatory and commercialization expertise. Even if we are successful in entering into a strategic collaboration for one of our product candidates, our partner may fail to develop or effectively commercialize the product candidate because such partner:. •  does not have sufficient resources or decides not to devote the necessary resources due to internal constraints such as limited cash or human resources;     •  decides to pursue a competitive potential product developed outside of the collaboration;     •  cannot obtain the necessary regulatory approvals;     •  determines that the market opportunity is not attractive; or     •  cannot manufacture the necessary materials in sufficient quantities from multiple sources or at a reasonable cost.. We also face competition in our search for partners from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies worldwide, many of whom are larger and able to offer more attractive deals in terms of financial commitments, contribution of human resources, or development, manufacturing, regulatory or commercial expertise and support.. If we are not successful in attracting partners and entering into collaborations on acceptable terms for these product candidates or otherwise monetizing these product candidates, we may not be able to complete development of or obtain regulatory approval for such product candidates. In such event, our ability to generate revenues from such products and achieve or sustain profitability would be significantly hindered.. The terms under which we enter collaborations or raise additional equity or debt financing may harm our business and may significantly dilute stockholders' ownership interests.. If we raise additional funds through collaborations or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may need to relinquish some rights to our product candidates, including commercialization rights, which may hinder our ability to generate revenues and achieve or sustain profitability. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, including as part of a debt financing, stockholders may experience substantial dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations and restrictive covenants and other financial terms that may impede our ability to operate our business. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders.. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and we may incur additional development costs, experience delays in the commencement and completion of clinical trials, and be unable to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates on our anticipated timeline if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines.. We rely extensively on CROs, medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract laboratories and other service providers to perform important functions related to the conduct of our clinical trials, the collection and analysis of data and the preparation of regulatory submissions. Although we design/or and manage our current clinical trials to ensure that each clinical trial is conducted in accordance with its investigational plan and protocol, we do not have the ability to conduct all aspects of our clinical trials directly for our product candidates.. The FDA requires us and our CROs to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, or GCPs, for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate and that the trial subjects are adequately informed of the potential risks of participating in clinical trials. Our reliance on CROs does not relieve us of these. 33. responsibilities and requirements. The CROs, medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract laboratories and other service providers that we employ in the conduct of our clinical trials are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our product development programs. If any of these third parties fails to devote sufficient care, time and resources to our product development programs, if its performance is substandard, or if any third party is inspected by the FDA and found not to be in compliance with GCPs, it will delay the completion of the clinical trial in which they are involved and the progress of the affected development program. The CROs with which we contract for execution of our clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the clinical trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Any failure of the CROs to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our product candidates. Moreover, the CROs, clinical investigators and other service providers may have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may have competitive products under development or currently marketed, and our competitive position could be harmed if they assist our competitors. If any of these third parties does not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data is compromised for any reason, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. In addition, while we believe that there are numerous alternative sources to provide these services, we might not be able to enter into replacement arrangements without delays or additional expenditures if we were to seek such alternative sources.. We rely on third-party manufacturers to produce our product candidates, which may result in delays in our clinical trials and the commercialization of products, as well as increased costs.. We have no manufacturing facilities, and we do not intend to develop facilities for the manufacture of our product candidates for clinical trials or commercial purposes in the foreseeable future. We contract with third-party manufacturers to produce, in collaboration with us, sufficient quantities of our product candidates for clinical trials, and we plan to contract with third-party manufacturers to produce sufficient quantities of any product candidates that may be approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for commercial sale. While we believe that there are competitive sources available to manufacture our product candidates, we may not be able to enter into arrangements without delays or additional expenditures. We cannot estimate these delays or costs with certainty.. Reliance on third-party manufacturers limits our ability to control certain aspects of the manufacturing process and therefore exposes us to a variety of significant risks, including risks related to our ability to commercialize any products approved by regulatory authorities or conduct clinical trials, reliance on such third parties for regulatory compliance and quality assurance, and the refusal or inability of a third-party manufacturer to supply our requirements on a long-term basis. In addition, manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel and compliance with federal, state and foreign regulations. Also, our manufacturers may not perform as agreed. If our manufacturers were to encounter any of these difficulties, our ability to timely produce our product candidates for clinical trials and commercial sale may be interrupted, which could result in delayed clinical trials or delayed regulatory approval and lost or delayed revenues.. We may not be able to establish or maintain any commercial manufacturing and supply arrangements on commercially reasonable terms that we require for purposes of commercializing a product. Any failure by us to secure or maintain any such required commercial supply agreements could result in interruption of supply and lost or delayed revenues, which would adversely affect our business. Any problems or delays we experience in preparing for commercial-scale manufacturing of a product candidate may result in a delay in FDA or other regulatory approval of the product candidate or may impair our ability to manufacture commercial quantities, which would adversely affect our business. For example, our manufacturers will need to produce specific batches of a product candidate to demonstrate acceptable stability under various conditions and for commercially viable lengths of time. We and our third-party manufacturers will need to demonstrate to the FDA and other regulatory authorities this acceptable stability data for the product candidate, as well as validate methods and manufacturing processes, in order to receive regulatory approval to commercialize such product candidate.. Our manufacturers are obligated to operate in accordance with FDA-mandated current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs and, in some cases, International Convention on Harmonization, or ICH, standards. A failure of any of our third-party manufacturers to establish and follow cGMPs and/or ICH standards and to document their. 34. adherence to such practices may lead to significant delays in our ability to timely conduct and complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approval of product candidates or launch of our products into the market. In addition, changing third-party manufacturers is difficult. For example, a change in third-party manufacturer for a particular product candidate requires re-validation of the manufacturing processes and procedures in accordance with cGMPs, which may be costly and time-consuming and, in some cases, our manufacturers may not provide us with adequate assistance to transfer the manufacturing processes and procedures for our product candidates to new manufacturers or may possess intellectual property rights covering parts of these processes or procedures for which we may need to obtain a license. Failure by our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions.. We may not be able to manufacture our product candidates in commercial quantities, which would prevent us from commercializing our product candidates.. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical studies and clinical trials. If any of our product candidates is approved by the FDA or comparable regulatory authorities in other countries for commercial sale, we will need to manufacture such product candidate in larger quantities. We may not be able to increase successfully the manufacturing capacity for any of our product candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. If we are unable to increase successfully the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. Our product candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. Our failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards in collaboration with our third-party manufacturers, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Materials necessary to manufacture our product candidates may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates.. We rely on the third-party manufacturers of our product candidates to purchase from third-party suppliers the materials necessary to produce the API and product candidates for our clinical trials, and we will rely on such manufacturers to purchase such materials to produce the API and finished product for any commercial distribution of our products if we obtain marketing approval. Suppliers may not sell these materials to our manufacturers at the time they need them in order to meet our required delivery schedule or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these materials by our manufacturers. Moreover, we currently do not have any agreements for the production of these materials. If our manufacturers are unable to obtain these materials for our clinical trials, testing of the affected product candidate would be delayed, which may significantly impact our ability to develop the product candidate. If we or our manufacturers are unable to purchase these materials after regulatory approval has been obtained for one of our products, the commercial launch of such product would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply of such product, which would harm our ability to generate revenues from such product and achieve or sustain profitability.. Our product candidates, if approved for sale, may not gain acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, thereby limiting our potential to generate revenues.. If one of our product candidates is approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, the degree of market acceptance of any approved product by physicians, healthcare professionals and third-party payers and our profitability and growth will depend on a number of factors, including:. •  demonstration of efficacy;     •  changes in the standard of care for the targeted indication;     •  relative convenience and ease of administration;. 35. •  the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects;     •  availability, cost and potential advantages of alternative treatments, including less expensive generic drugs;     •  pricing and cost effectiveness, which may be subject to regulatory control;     •  effectiveness of our or any of our partners' sales and marketing strategies;     •  the product labeling or product insert required by the FDA or regulatory authority in other countries; and      •  the availability of adequate third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement.. If any product candidate that we develop does not provide a treatment regimen that is as beneficial as, or is perceived as being as beneficial as, the current standard of care or otherwise does not provide patient benefit, that product candidate, if approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, likely will not achieve market acceptance. Our ability to effectively promote and sell any approved products will also depend on pricing and cost-effectiveness, including our ability to produce a product at a competitive price and our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If any product candidate is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, patients and third-party payers, our ability to generate revenues from that product would be substantially reduced. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payers on the benefits of our product candidates may require significant resources and may never be successful.. If our products are not accepted by the market or if users of our products are unable to obtain adequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products from government and other third-party payers, our revenues and profitability will suffer.. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in significant part on pricing and cost effectiveness, including our ability to produce a product at a competitive price and our ability to obtain appropriate coverage of and reimbursement for our products and related treatments from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations, or HMOs. Third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We cannot provide any assurances that third-party payers will consider our products cost-effective or provide coverage of and reimbursement for our products, in whole or in part.. Uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved medical products and services and newly approved indications for existing products. Third-party payers may conclude that our products are less safe, less clinically effective or less cost-effective than existing products, and third-party payers may not approve our products for coverage and reimbursement. If we are unable to obtain adequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products from third-party payers, physicians may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them. Such reduction or limitation in the use of our products could cause our sales to suffer. Even if third-party payers make reimbursement available, payment levels may not be sufficient to make the sale of our products profitable.. Market acceptance and sales of our current or future product candidates will depend in large part on global reimbursement policies and may be affected by future healthcare reform measures, both in the United States and other key international markets. For example, continuing health care reform in the United States will control or significantly influence the purchase of medical services and products, and may result in inadequate coverage of and reimbursement for our products. Many third-party payers are pursuing various ways to reduce pharmaceutical costs, including the use of formularies. The market for our products depends on access to such formularies, which are lists of medications for which third-party payers provide reimbursement. These formularies are increasingly restricted, and pharmaceutical companies face significant competition in their efforts to place their products on formularies.. 36. This increased competition has led to a downward pricing pressure in the industry. The cost containment measures that third-party payers, including government payers, are instituting could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate profitably.. We are dependent on our management team, particularly our President and Chief Executive Officer, and our and experienced scientific staff, and if we are unable to retain, motivate and attract key personnel, our product development programs may be delayed and we may be unable to develop successfully or commercialize our product candidates.. We are dependent upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly Yuichi Iwaki, M.D., Ph.D., a founder and our President and Chief Executive Officer, who has been instrumental in our ability to in-license product candidates from Japanese pharmaceutical companies and secure financing from Japanese institutions. The relationships that certain of our key managers have cultivated with pharmaceutical companies from whom we license product candidates and to whom we expect to out-license product candidates make us particularly dependent upon their continued services with us, whether through employment, service on our board of directors or a consulting agreement. We are also substantially dependent on the continued services of clinical development personnel because of the highly technical nature of our product development programs. We are not presently aware of any plans of our executive officers or key personnel to retire or leave employment. Following termination of employment, these individuals may engage in other businesses that may compete with us.. If we acquire or license new product candidates, our success may depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel to manage the development of these new product candidates. In particular, our product development programs depend on our ability to attract and retain highly experienced clinical development personnel. However, we face competition for experienced professional personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions. Competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in the San Diego, California area, where our corporate headquarters is located. Our short operating history and the uncertainties could impair our ability to attract and retain personnel and impede the achievement of our development and commercialization objectives. In addition, we have scientific and clinical advisors who assist us in our product development and clinical strategies. These third parties are not our employees and may have commitments to, or contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us, or may have arrangements with other companies to assist in the development of products that may compete with our product candidates.. Although we have employment agreements with key members of management, each of our employees, subject to applicable notice requirements, may terminate his or her employment at any time. We do not carry \"key person\" insurance covering members of senior management. If we lose any of our key management personnel, we may not be able to find suitable replacements, which would adversely affect our business.. If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we will be unable to commercialize our product candidates successfully.. To date, we have not sold, marketed or distributed any pharmaceutical products. If we are successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for any of our product candidates or acquiring other approved products, we will need to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities on our own or with partners in order to commercialize an approved product. The acquisition or development of an effective sales and marketing infrastructure will require a significant amount of our financial resources and time and could negatively impact our commercialization efforts, including delay of a product launch. We may be unable to establish and manage a sufficient or effective sales force in a timely or cost-effective manner, if at all, and any sales force we do establish may not be capable of generating demand for our products, therefore hindering our ability to generate revenues and achieve or sustain profitability. In addition, if we are unable to develop internal sales capabilities, we will need to contract with third parties or establish a partnership to market and sell the product. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate any product revenues, may generate increased expenses and may never become profitable. In addition, although we intend to establish strategic collaborations to market any products approved for sale by regulatory authorities outside of the United States, we may be required to market our product candidates outside of the United States directly if we. 37. are unable to establish such collaborations. In that event, we may need to build a corresponding international sales and marketing capability with technical expertise and with supporting distribution capabilities.. Health care reform measures could adversely affect our business.. The business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are affected by the efforts of governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care. In the United States and in foreign jurisdictions, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the health care system. For example, in some countries, pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control, and we expect to continue to see proposals to implement similar controls in the United States to continue. Another example of proposed reform that could affect our business is drug reimportation into the United States. Moreover, the pendency or approval of such proposals could result in a decrease in our stock price or our ability to raise capital or to obtain strategic partnerships or licenses. More recently, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act imposed numerous reforms that may impact the costs, legal requirements and potential success of our operations.. We may be sued for product liability, which could result in substantial liabilities that exceed our available resources and damage our reputation.. The development and commercialization of drug products entails significant product liability risks. Product liability claims may arise from use of any of our product candidates in clinical trials and the commercial sale of any approved products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in:. •  withdrawal of clinical trial participants;     •  termination of clinical trial sites or entire clinical trial programs;     •  decreased demand for our product candidates;     •  impairment of our business reputation;     •  costs of related litigation;     •  substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants;     •  loss of revenues; and     •  the inability to commercialize our product candidates.. We currently have insurance that covers our clinical trials. We believe our current insurance coverage is reasonably adequate at this time; however, our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for all expenses or losses we may suffer. In addition, we will need to increase and expand this coverage as we commence additional clinical trials, as well as larger scale clinical trials, and in the event that any of our product candidates is approved for commercial sale. This insurance may be prohibitively expensive or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. In addition, our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the regulatory approval or commercialization of products that we or one of our collaborators develop. Successful product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Liability from such claims could exceed our total assets if we do not prevail in any lawsuit brought by a third party alleging that an injury was caused by one of our product candidates.. We expect that our results of operations will fluctuate, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance from period to period.. 38. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period include:. •  the status of development of our product candidates and, in particular, the advancement or termination of activities related to our product development programs and the timing of any milestone payments payable under our licensing agreements;     •  the execution of other collaboration, licensing and similar arrangements and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements;     •  variations in the level of expenses related to our product development programs;     •  the unpredictable effects of collaborations during these periods;     •  the timing of our satisfaction of applicable regulatory requirements, if at all;     •  the rate of expansion of our clinical development and other internal research and development efforts;     •  the costs of any litigation;     •  the effect of competing technologies and products and market developments; and     •  general and industry-specific economic conditions.. We believe that quarterly or yearly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance.. We will continue to incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives.. As a public company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules and regulations implemented by the SEC, The NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, and Japanese securities laws, and incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a result. These rules impose various requirements on public companies, including requiring the establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and appropriate corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel have devoted and will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and may make it more difficult and expensive for us to renew our director and officer liability insurance, and may result in imposition of reduced policy limits and coverage.. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we (i) maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures and (ii) perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of those controls, as required by Section 404. Our listing obligations under the JASDAQ Market of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, or TSE, also require that we comply either with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or equivalent regulations in Japan and we elected to comply with Section 404. Additionally, we are subject to attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm regarding our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017 under Japanese securities laws. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 and related regulations have required, and continue to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We cannot be certain that a material weakness will not be identified when we test the effectiveness of our controls in the future. If a material weakness is identified, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC, the TSE or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources, costly litigation or a loss of public confidence in our internal controls, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock.. Additionally, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation related provisions. 39. in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas. To maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with such compliance programs and rules and all other evolving standards. These investments may result in increased general and administrative costs and a diversion of our management's time and attention from strategic revenue generating and cost management activities.. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures and natural disasters.. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption of our drug development programs, including delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur liability and the further development of our product candidates may be delayed.. A variety of risks associated with operating our business and marketing our products internationally could materially adversely affect our business.. A significant amount of our business activity is outside of the United States. We face risks associated with our international operations, including possible unfavorable regulatory, pricing and reimbursement, political, tax and labor conditions, which could harm our business. We are subject to numerous risks associated with international business activities, including, but not limited to:. •  compliance with differing or unexpected regulatory requirements for our products;     •  difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;     •  in certain circumstances, including with respect to the commercialization of our product candidates in Europe, increased dependence on the commercialization efforts of our distributors or strategic partners;     •  foreign government taxes, regulations and permit requirements;     •  United States and foreign government tariffs, trade restrictions, price and exchange controls and other regulatory requirements;     •  economic weakness, including inflation, natural disasters, war, events of terrorism or political instability in particular foreign countries;     •  fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues, and other obligations related to doing business in another country;     •  compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws, regulations and restrictions for employees living or traveling abroad;     •  workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States;     •  changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and     •  challenges in enforcing our contractual and intellectual property rights, especially in those foreign countries that do not respect and protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. These and other risks associated with our international operations may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 40. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. Our ability to compete may decline if we do not adequately protect our proprietary rights.. There is the risk that our patents (both those owned by us and those in-licensed) may not provide a competitive advantage, including the risk that our patents expire before we obtain regulatory and marketing approval for one or more of our product candidates, particularly our in-licensed patents. Also, our competitors may develop products similar to ours using methods and technologies that are beyond the scope of our intellectual property rights. Composition of matter patents on APIs may provide protection for pharmaceutical products without regard to formulation, method of use, or other type of limitation. We do not have compound patent protection for the API in our MN-166 (ibudilast), MN-001 (tipelukast), and MN-221 product candidates, although we do have patent protection for a particular crystalline polymorph of MN-001 (tipelukast) and we have composition of matter protection on an analog of MN-166 (ibudilast). As a result, competitors that obtain the requisite regulatory approval will be able to offer products with the same API as found in our MN-166 (ibudilast), MN-001 (tipelukast), and MN-221 product candidates so long as such competitors do not infringe any methods of use, methods of manufacture, formulation or, in the case of MN-001 (tipelukast), specific polymorph patents that we hold or have exclusive rights to through our licensors. For example, we currently rely on method of use patents for MN-166 (ibudilast), MN-001 (tipelukast), and MN-221 although we have a compound patent for MN-029.. It is our policy to consult with our licensors in the maintenance of granted patents we have licensed and in their pursuit of patent applications that we have licensed, but each of our licensors generally remains primarily responsible for or in control of the maintenance of the granted patents. We have limited control, if any, over the amount or timing of resources that each licensor devotes on our behalf. As a result of this lack of control, we cannot be sure that our licensed patents will be maintained and that any additional patents will ever mature from our licensed applications. Issued U.S. patents require the payment of maintenance fees to continue to be in force. We typically rely on our licensors to do this and their failure to do so could result in the forfeiture of patents not timely maintained. Many foreign patent offices also require the payment of periodic annuities to keep patents and patent applications in good standing. As we generally do not maintain control over the payment of annuities, we cannot be certain that our licensors will timely pay such annuities and that the granted patents will not become abandoned. For example, certain annuities were not paid in a timely manner with respect to foreign patents licensed under MN-002 (the active metabolite of MN-001) and, as a result, our patent rights may be impaired in those territories. In addition, our licensors may have selected a limited amount of foreign patent protection, and therefore applications have not been filed in, and foreign patents may not have been perfected in, all commercially significant countries.. The patent protection of our product candidates and technology involves complex legal and factual questions. Most of our license agreements give us a right, but not an obligation, to enforce our patent rights. To the extent it is necessary or advantageous for any of our licensors' cooperation in the enforcement of our patent rights, we cannot control the amount or timing of resources our licensors devote on our behalf or the priority they place on enforcing our patent rights. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against third party infringement, which may be difficult to detect, especially for infringement of patent claims for methods of manufacturing. Additionally, challenges may be made to the ownership of our intellectual property rights, our ability to enforce them or our underlying licenses, which in some cases have been made under foreign laws and may provide different protections than that of U.S. law.. We cannot be certain that any of the patents or patent applications owned by us or our licensors related to our product candidates and technology will provide adequate protection from competing products. Our success will depend, in part, on whether we or our licensors can:. •  obtain and maintain patents to protect our product candidates;     •  obtain and maintain any required or desirable licenses to use certain technologies of third parties, which may be protected by patents;     •  protect our trade secrets and know-how;     •  operate without infringing the intellectual property and proprietary rights of others;. 41. •  enforce the issued patents under which we hold rights; and     •  develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable.. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. For example:. •  we or our licensor might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications or issued patents;     •  we or our licensor might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions;     •  others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies;     •  it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents;     •  any patents under which we hold rights may not provide us with a basis for maintaining market exclusivity for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties as invalid, not infringed or unenforceable under U.S. or foreign laws; or     •  any of the issued patents under which we hold rights may not be valid or enforceable or may be circumvented successfully in light of the continuing evolution of domestic and foreign patent laws.. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property, which could limit our ability to compete.. Because we operate in the highly technical field of research and development of small molecule drugs, we rely in part on trade secret protection in order to protect our proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect, and we cannot be certain that others will not develop the same or similar technologies on their own. We have taken steps, including entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors, to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how. These agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties all confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party's relationship with us. We also typically obtain agreements from these parties which provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. However, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. Further, we have limited control, if any, over the protection of trade secrets developed by our licensors. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets or know-how is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets or know-how. The failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position.. A dispute concerning the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be time consuming and costly, and an unfavorable outcome could harm our business.. There is significant litigation in our industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. While we are not currently subject to any pending intellectual property litigation, and are not aware of any such threatened litigation, we may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our product candidates, their methods of use, manufacturing or other technologies or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of such third parties. There are many patents relating to chemical compounds and methods of use. If our compounds or their methods of use or manufacture are found to infringe any such patents, we may have to pay significant damages or seek licenses under such patents. We have not conducted comprehensive searches for unexpired patents issued to third parties relating to our product candidates. Consequently, no assurance can be given that unexpired, third-party. 42. patents containing claims covering our product candidates, their methods of use or manufacture do not exist. Moreover, because some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, and because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications that will mature into issued patents that relate to our current or future product candidates and which could have a material effect in developing and commercializing one or more of our product candidates. The owner of a patent that is arguably infringed can bring a civil action seeking to enjoin an accused infringer from importing, making, marketing, distributing, using or selling an infringing product. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to seek a declaratory judgment concerning the scope, validity or enforceability of third-party proprietary rights. Similarly, we may be subject to claims that we have inappropriately used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of third parties. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources, regardless of whether we win or lose. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. We may not be able to afford the costs of litigation. Any legal action against us or our collaborators could lead to:. •  payment of actual damages, royalties, lost profits, potential enhanced damages and attorneys' fees, if any infringement for which we are found liable is deemed willful, or a case against us is determined by a judge to be exceptional;     •  injunctive or other equitable relief that may effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell our products;     •  having to enter into license arrangements that may not be available on reasonable or commercially acceptable terms; or     •  significant cost and expense, as well as distraction of our management from our business.. As a result, we could lose our ability to develop and commercialize current or future product candidates.. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. From time to time, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Investment in Our Common Stock. Our stock price may be volatile, and you may not be able to resell our shares at a profit or at all.. Despite the listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market and the JASDAQ Market of the Tokyo Stock Exchange in Japan, trading volume in our securities has been light and an active trading market may not develop for our common stock. In 2017, our average trading volume was approximately 70,398 shares per day on The NASDAQ Global Market and approximately 136,536 shares per day on the JASDAQ Market.. The market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and early-stage drug discovery and development companies like us in particular, have historically been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. For example, since the date of our initial public offering in Japan on February 8, 2005 through December 31, 2017, our common stock has traded as high as approximately $42.00 and as low as approximately $1.30. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock:. 43. •  the development status of our product candidates, including clinical trial results and determinations by regulatory authorities with respect to our product candidates;     •  the initiation, termination, or reduction in the scope of any collaboration arrangements or any disputes or developments regarding such collaborations;     •  FDA or foreign regulatory actions, including failure to receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates;     •  announcements of technological innovations, new commercial products or other material events by us or our competitors;     •  disputes or other developments concerning our intellectual property rights;     •  market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors;     •  actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results;     •  price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock markets;     •  changes in, or failure to meet, securities analysts' or investors' expectations of our financial performance;     •  additions or departures of key personnel;     •  discussions of our business, management, products, financial performance, prospects or stock price by the financial and scientific press and online investor communities;     •  litigation or public concern about the safety of our potential products;     •  public concern as to, and legislative action with respect to, the pricing and availability of prescription drugs or the safety of drugs and drug delivery techniques; or     •  regulatory developments in the United States and in foreign countries.. Broad market and industry factors, as well as economic and political factors, also may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Our common stock may be delisted on The NASDAQ Global Market or the JASDAQ Market of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.. In addition to the risks identified immediately above, the market price of our common stock, and your ability to sell your shares at a profit, or at all, may be affected by the delisting of our shares for failure to meet applicable listing standards. For example, price per share minimums are maintained by The NASDAQ Global Market, and our share price has, in the past, fallen below the required minimum. In addition, JASDAQ Market listing requirements currently mandate that listed companies achieve a profit or positive cash flow from operations within a five-year period. Failure to meet these or other listing requirements for either of the stock exchanges on which our common stock is listed could adversely affect the market price for our common stock and your ability to sell your shares at a profit, or at all.. The sale of additional common stock under our existing at-the-market issuance sales agreement may cause substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and/or the price of our common stock to decline.. 44. On May 22, 2015, we entered into an at-the-market issuance sales agreement, or the ATM Agreement, with MLV & Co. LLC, or MLV, pursuant to which we may sell common stock through MLV from time to time up to an aggregate offering price of $30.0 million. On September 16, 2016, we entered into an amendment to the ATM Agreement to also include FBR Capital Markets & Co as a sales agent thereunder. From time to time, we may sell additional shares of our common stock under the ATM Agreement. Depending upon market liquidity at the time, sales of shares of our common stock under the ATM Agreement may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock under the ATM Agreement, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales.. We may become involved in securities class action litigation that could divert management's attention and harm our business.. The stock markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies have in the past experienced significant stock price volatility. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation often is expensive and diverts management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business.. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline and may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital or for you to sell your shares.. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of such common stock for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities if we should desire to do so. In addition, it may be difficult, or even impossible, to find a buyer for shares of our common stock.. We have also registered all common stock that we may issue under our current employee benefits plans and upon exercise of warrants. As a result, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to the terms of the underlying agreements governing the grants and the restrictions of the securities laws. In addition, our directors and officers may in the future establish programmed selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act, for the purpose of effecting sales of our common stock. If any of these events cause a large number of our shares to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital.. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more complicated and the removal and replacement of our directors and management more difficult.. Our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock or adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions may also make it difficult for stockholders to remove and replace our board of directors and management. These provisions:. •  establish that members of the board of directors may be removed only for cause upon the affirmative vote of stockholders owning at least a majority of our capital stock;     •  authorize the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors in a discriminatory fashion designed to increase the number of outstanding shares and prevent or delay a takeover attempt;     •  limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders;. 45. •  establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings;     •  prohibit our stockholders from making certain changes to our restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws except with 66-2/3% stockholder approval; and     •  provide for a classified board of directors with staggered terms.. We also may be subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years unless the holder's acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In any event, these provisions may delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Any such delay or prevention could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. We have never paid dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future."
