[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. You should carefully read the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the other information included in this Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial could also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 10. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Difficult market and political conditions may adversely affect our business in many ways, including by reducing the value or hampering the performance of the investments made by our funds, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic and political conditions throughout the world, such as interest rates, availability and cost of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws (including laws relating to our taxation, taxation of our investors, the possibility of changes to tax laws in either the United States or any non-U.S. jurisdiction and regulations on asset managers), trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls and national and international political circumstances (including wars, terrorist acts and security operations). These factors are outside of our control and may affect the level and volatility of asset prices and the liquidity and value of investments, and we may not be able to or may choose not to manage our exposure to these conditions. Ongoing developments in the U.S. and global financial markets following the unprecedented turmoil in the global capital markets and the financial services industry in late 2008 and early 2009 continue to illustrate that the current environment is still one of uncertainty and instability for investment management business. Recently, global financial markets have experienced heightened volatility, including the June 2016 \"Brexit\" referendum in the United Kingdom in favor of exiting the EU and subsequent uncertainty regarding the timing and terms of the exit, the results of the 2016 U.S. presidential and congressional election and resulting uncertainty regarding actual and potential shifts in U.S. and foreign, trade, economic and other policies, and, more recently, concerns over increasing interest rates (particularly short-term rates), uncertainty regarding the short- and long-term effects of tax reform in the United States and uncertainty regarding trade policies and tariffs implemented by the Trump administration. For example, in February 2018, global equity markets experienced a widespread sell-off, and bonds have also declined in value. Any of the foregoing could have a significant impact on the markets in which we operate and a material adverse impact on our business prospects and financial condition.. A number of factors have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on credit markets in particular. In addition following a sustained period of historically low interest rate levels, in the United States, short-term interest rates have risen by 90 to 120 basis points since the U.S. presidential election in November 2016 with 10 to 20 bps of such amount attributable to increases seen between January 1, 2018 and February 8, 2018. Changes in and uncertainty surrounding interest rates may have a material effect on our business, particularly with respect to the cost and availability of financing for significant acquisition and disposition transactions. Furthermore, some of the provisions under the newly enacted tax law in the United States, Public Law No. 115-97 (the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\") could have a negative impact on the cost of financing and dampen the attractiveness of credit. There has been a corresponding meaningful increase in the uncertainty surrounding interest rates, foreign exchange rates, trade volume, and fiscal and economic policies, which has heightened volatility in the U.S. and global markets and could persist for an extended period.. These and other conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy may result in adverse consequences for our funds and their respective investee companies, which could restrict such funds' investment activities and impede such funds' ability to effectively achieve their investment objectives. In addition, because the fees we earn under our investment management agreements are based in part on the market value of our AUM and in part on investment performance, if any of these factors cause a decline in our AUM or result in non-performance of loans by investee companies, it would result in lower fees earned, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Newly enacted laws, such as Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or regulations and future changes in the U.S. taxation of businesses may impact our effective tax rate or may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. On December 22, 2017, the President signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which significantly changed the Code, including a reduction in the federal statutory corporate income tax rate to 21%, a new limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, restrictions on the use of net operating loss carryforwards arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and dramatic changes to the taxation of income earned from foreign sources and foreign subsidiaries. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act also authorizes the Treasury Department to issue regulations with respect to the new provisions. We cannot predict how the changes in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, regulations, or other guidance issued under it or conforming or non-conforming state tax rules might affect us or our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that U.S. tax laws, including the corporate income tax rate, would not undergo significant changes in the near future.. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from funds managed pursuant to advisory agreements that may be terminated or fund partnership agreements that permit fund investors to remove us as the general partner.. With respect to our permanent capital vehicles, each fund's investment management agreement must be approved annually by such fund's board of directors or by the vote of a majority of the stockholders and the majority of the independent members of such fund's board of directors and, in certain cases, by its stockholders, as required by law. In addition, as required by the Investment Company Act, both MCC and SIC have the right to terminate their respective management agreements without penalty upon 60 days' written notice to their respective advisers. Termination of these agreements would reduce the fees we earn from the relevant funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and. 11. 2015, our investment advisory relationships with MCC and SIC represented approximately 74.4%, 80.3% and 80.2% , respectively, of our total management fees. These investment advisory relationships also represented, in the aggregate, 45% of our AUM at December 31, 2017. There can be no assurance that our investment management agreements with respect to MCC and SIC will remain in place.. With respect to our long-dated private funds, insofar as we control the general partner of such funds, the risk of termination of the investment management agreement for such funds is limited, subject to our fiduciary or contractual duties as general partner. However, the applicable fund partnership agreements may permit the limited partners of each respective fund to remove us as general partner by a majority or, in certain circumstances, a super majority vote. In addition, the partnership agreements provide for dissolution of the partnership upon certain changes of control.. Our SMAs are governed by investment management agreements that may be terminated by investors at any time for cause under the applicable agreement and \"cause\" may include the departure of specified members of our senior management team. Absent cause, the investment management agreements that govern our SMAs are generally not terminable during the specified investment period or following the specified investment period, prior to the scheduled maturities or disposition of the subject AUM.. Termination of these agreements would negatively affect the fees we earn from the relevant funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. We may not be able to maintain our current fee structure as a result of industry pressure from fund investors to reduce fees, which could have an adverse effect on our profit margins and results of operations.. We may not be able to maintain our current fee structure as a result of industry pressure from fund investors to reduce fees. Although our investment management fees vary among and within asset classes, historically we have competed primarily on the basis of our performance and not on the level of our investment management fees relative to those of our competitors. In recent years, however, there has been a general trend toward lower fees in the investment management industry. In September 2009, the Institutional Limited Partners Association published a set of Private Equity Principles (the \"Principles\"), which were revised in January 2011. The Principles were developed to encourage discussion between limited partners and general partners regarding private equity fund partnership terms. Certain of the Principles call for enhanced \"alignment of interests\" between general partners and limited partners through modifications of some of the terms of fund arrangements, including proposed guidelines for fees and performance income structures. Although we have no obligation to modify any of our fees with respect to our existing funds, we may experience pressure to do so in our funds. More recently institutional investors have been allocating increasing amounts of capital to alternative investment strategies as well as attempting to reduce management and investment fees to external managers, whether through direct reductions, deferrals or rebates. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in providing investment returns and service that will allow us to maintain our current fee structure. For example, on December 3, 2015, we agreed to reduce our fees from MCC and beginning January 1, 2016, the base management fee from MCC was reduced to 1.50% on gross assets above $1 billion. In addition, we reduced our incentive fee from MCC from 20% on pre-incentive fee net investment income over an 8% hurdle, to 17.5% on pre-incentive fee net investment income over a 6% hurdle and introduced a netting mechanism and incentive fee income will be subject to a rolling three-year look back. Under no circumstances will our recently implemented fee structure result in higher fees from MCC than fees under the current investment management agreement. Fee reductions on existing or future new business could have an adverse effect on our profit margins and results of operations. For more information about our fees, see \"Business - Fee Structure.\". A change of control of us could result in termination of our investment advisory agreements.. Pursuant to the Investment Company Act, each of the investment advisory agreements for the BDCs that we advise automatically terminates upon its deemed \"assignment\" and a BDC's board and shareholders must approve a new agreement in order for us to continue to act as its investment adviser. In addition, pursuant to the Investment Advisers Act, each of our investment advisory agreements for the separate accounts we manage may not be \"assigned\" without the consent of the client. A sale of a controlling block of our voting securities and certain other transactions would be deemed an \"assignment\" pursuant to both the Investment Company Act and the Investment Advisers Act. Such an assignment may be deemed to occur in the event that our pre-IPO owners dispose of enough of their interests in us such that they no longer own a controlling interest in us. If such a deemed assignment occurs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary consents from clients whose funds are managed pursuant to separate accounts or the necessary approvals from the boards and shareholders of the SEC-registered BDCs that we advise. An assignment, actual or constructive, would trigger these termination and consent provisions and, unless the necessary approvals and consents are obtained, could adversely affect our ability to continue managing client accounts, resulting in the loss of assets under management and a corresponding loss of revenue.. 12. The historical returns attributable to our funds should not be considered as indicative of the future results of our funds or of our future results or of any returns expected on an investment in our Class A common stock.. The historical performance of our funds is relevant to us primarily insofar as it is indicative of fees we have earned in the past and may earn in the future and our reputation and ability to raise new funds. The historical and potential returns of the funds we advise are not, however, directly linked to returns on our Class A common stock. Therefore, you should not conclude that positive performance of the funds we advise will necessarily result in positive returns on an investment in Class A common stock. However, poor performance of the funds we advise could cause a decline in our revenues and could therefore have a negative effect on our operating results and returns on our Class A common stock. An investment in our Class A common stock is not an investment in any of our funds. Also, there is no assurance that projections in respect of our funds or unrealized valuations will be realized.. Moreover, the historical returns of our funds should not be considered indicative of the future returns of these funds or from any future funds we may raise, in part because:. • market conditions during previous periods may have been significantly more favorable for generating positive performance than the market conditions we may experience in the future;. • our funds' rates of returns, which are calculated on the basis of NAV of the funds' investments, including unrealized gains, which may never be realized;. • our funds' returns have previously benefited from investment opportunities and general market conditions that may not recur, and our funds may not be able to achieve the same returns or profitable investment opportunities or deploy capital as quickly;. • the historical returns that we present in this Form 10-K derive largely from the performance of our earlier funds, whereas future fund returns will depend increasingly on the performance of our newer funds or funds not yet formed, which may have little or no realized investment track record;. • you will not benefit from any value that was created in our funds prior to our becoming a public company if such value was previously realized;. • in recent years, there has been increased competition for investment opportunities resulting from the increased amount of capital invested in alternative funds and high liquidity in debt markets, and the increased competition for investments may reduce our returns in the future; and. • our newly established funds may generate lower returns during the period that they take to deploy their capital.. The future internal rate of return for any current or future fund may vary considerably from the historical internal rate of return generated by any particular fund, or for our funds as a whole. Future returns will also be affected by the risks described in this Form 10-K, including risks of the industries and business in which a particular fund invests.. If we are unable to consummate or successfully integrate development opportunities, acquisitions or joint ventures, we may not be able to implement our growth strategy successfully.. Our growth strategy may include the selective development or acquisition of other asset management businesses, advisory businesses or other businesses or financial products complementary to our business where we think we can add substantial value or generate substantial returns. The success of this strategy will depend on, among other things: (a) the availability of suitable opportunities, (b) the level of competition from other companies that may have greater financial resources, (c) our ability to value potential development or acquisition opportunities accurately and negotiate acceptable terms for those opportunities, (d) our ability to obtain requisite approvals and licenses from the relevant governmental authorities and to comply with applicable laws and regulations without incurring undue costs and delays, (e) our ability to identify and enter into mutually beneficial relationships with venture partners and (f) our ability to properly manage conflicts of interest. Moreover, even if we are able to identify and successfully complete an acquisition, we may encounter unexpected difficulties or incur unexpected costs associated with integrating and overseeing the operations of the new business or activities. If we are not successful in implementing our growth strategy, our business, results of operations and the market price for our Class A common stock may be adversely affected.. We depend on third-party distribution sources to market our investment strategies.. Our ability to grow our AUM, particularly with respect to our BDCs, is dependent on access to third-party intermediaries, including investment banks, broker dealers and RIAs. We cannot assure you that these intermediaries will continue to be accessible to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, pension fund consultants may review and evaluate our institutional products and our firm from time to time. Poor reviews or evaluations of either a particular product, or of us, may result in institutional client withdrawals or may impair our ability to attract new assets through these consultants.. 13. An investment strategy focused primarily on privately held companies presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies.. Our funds have historically invested primarily in privately held companies. Investments in private companies pose certain incremental risks as compared to investments in public companies including that private companies:. • have reduced access to the capital markets, resulting in diminished capital resources and ability to withstand financial distress;. • may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under debt that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment;. • may have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger business, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors' actions and changing market conditions, as well as general economic downturns;. • are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our investee company and, in turn, on us; and. • generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing business with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In addition, our executive officers, directors or employees may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our funds' investments in investee companies.. Finally, limited public information generally exists about private companies and these companies may not have third-party debt ratings or audited financial statements. We must therefore rely on the ability of our funds' advisors to obtain adequate information through due diligence to evaluate the creditworthiness and potential returns from investing in these companies. Additionally, these companies and their financial information will not generally be subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules that govern public companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, our funds may lose money on such investments.. Our funds' investments in investee companies may be risky, and our funds could lose all or part of their investments.. Our funds pursue strategies focused on investing primarily in the debt of privately owned U.S. companies.. Senior Secured Debt and Second Lien Secured Debt.   When our funds invest in senior secured term debt and second lien secured debt, our funds will generally take a security interest in the available assets of these investee companies, including the equity interests of their subsidiaries. There is a risk that the collateral securing such investments may decrease in value over time or lose its entire value, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the investee company to raise additional capital. Also, in some circumstances, our security interest could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, deterioration in an investee company's financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the debt. Consequently, the fact that debt is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the investment terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the investment should we be forced to enforce our remedies.. Senior Unsecured Debt.   Our funds may also make unsecured debt investments in investee companies, meaning that such investments will not benefit from any interest in collateral of such companies.. Subordinated Debt.   Our subordinated debt investments will generally be subordinated to senior debt and will generally be unsecured. This may result in a heightened level of risk and volatility or a loss of principal, which could lead to the loss of the entire investment. These investments may involve additional risks that could adversely affect our investment returns. To the extent interest payments associated with such debt are deferred, such debt may be subject to greater fluctuations in valuations, and such debt could subject our funds to non-cash income. Since the applicable fund would not receive any principal repayments prior to the maturity of some of our subordinated debt investments, such investments will be of greater risk than amortizing loans.. Equity Investments.   Certain of our funds make selected equity investments. In addition, when our funds invest in senior and subordinated debt, they may acquire warrants or options to purchase equity securities or benefit from other types of equity participation. Our goal is ultimately to dispose of these equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. However, the equity interests our funds receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, our funds may not be able to realize gains from such equity interests, and any gains that our funds do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses our funds experience.. Most loans in which our funds invest will not be rated by any rating agency and, if they were rated, they would be rated as below investment grade quality. Loans rated below investment grade quality are generally regarded as having predominantly. 14. speculative characteristics and may carry a greater risk with respect to a borrower's capacity to pay interest and repay principal. From time to time, our funds, in the past, and may in the future, lose some or all of their investment in an investee company.. Prepayments of debt investments by our investee companies could adversely impact our results of operations.. We are subject to the risk that the investments our funds make in investee companies may be repaid prior to maturity. When this occurs, our BDCs will generally use such proceeds to reduce their existing borrowings and our private funds will generally return such capital to its investors, which capital may be recalled at a later date pursuant to such fund's governing documents. With respect to our SMAs, if such event occurs after the investment period, such capital will be returned to investors. Any future investment in a new investee company may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, the results of operations of the affected fund could be materially adversely affected if one or more investee companies elect to prepay amounts owed to such fund, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. Our funds' investee companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our funds' investments in such companies.. Our funds pursue a strategy focused on investing primarily in the debt of privately owned U.S. companies. Our funds' investee companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt in which our funds invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may entitle the holders to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments with respect to the debt instruments in which our funds invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of an investee company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our funds' investment in that investee company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution. After repaying such senior creditors, such investee company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to our funds. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt instruments in which our funds invest, our funds would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant investee company.. Subordinated liens on collateral securing loans that our funds make to their investee companies may be subject to control by senior creditors with first priority liens. If there is a default, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay in full both the first priority creditors and our funds.. Certain debt investments that our funds make in investee companies are secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing senior secured debt of such companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the investee company's obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the company under the agreements governing the debt. The holders of obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of and be entitled to receive proceeds from any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before our funds. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the debt obligations secured by the second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the debt obligations secured by the second priority liens, then our funds, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the investee company's remaining assets, if any.. Our funds may also make unsecured debt investments in investee companies, meaning that such investments will not benefit from any interest in collateral of such companies. Liens on such investee companies' collateral, if any, will secure the investee company's obligations under its outstanding secured debt and may secure certain future debt that is permitted to be incurred by the investee company under its secured debt agreements. The holders of obligations secured by such liens will generally control the liquidation of, and be entitled to receive proceeds from, any realization of such collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of such collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from sales of such collateral would be sufficient to satisfy our unsecured debt obligations after payment in full of all secured debt obligations. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay the outstanding secured debt obligations, then our unsecured claims would rank equally with the unpaid portion of such secured creditors' claims against the investee company's remaining assets, if any.. The rights our funds may have with respect to the collateral securing the debt investments our funds make in their investee companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that our funds enter into with the holders of senior secured debt. Under such an intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the discretion of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens: the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral; the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; the approval of amendments to collateral documents; releases of liens on the collateral; and waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. Our funds may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if their rights are adversely affected.. 15. There may be circumstances where our funds' debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or our funds could be subject to lender liability claims.. If one of our investee companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which our funds actually provided managerial assistance to that investee company or a representative of us sat on the board of directors of such investee company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our funds' debt investment and subordinate all or a portion of our funds' claim to that of other creditors. In situations where a bankruptcy carries a high degree of political significance, our funds' legal rights may be subordinated to other creditors.. In addition, lenders in certain cases can be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by them when they become too involved in the borrower's business or exercise control over a borrower. It is possible that we or our funds could become subject to a lender's liability claim, including as a result of actions taken if we or our funds render significant managerial assistance to, or exercise control or influence over the board of directors of, the borrower.. Our funds may not have the resources or ability to make additional investments in our investee companies.. After an initial investment in an investee company, our funds may be called upon from time to time to provide additional funds to such company or have the opportunity to increase their investment through the exercise of a warrant or other right to purchase common stock. There is no assurance that the applicable fund will make, or will have sufficient resources to make, follow-on investments. Even if such fund has sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our level of risk, we prefer other opportunities or we are limited in our ability to do so by compliance with BDC requirements or maintaining RIC status, if applicable. Any decisions not to make a follow-on investment or any inability on our part to make such an investment may have a negative impact on an investee company in need of such an investment, may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation or may reduce the expected return on the investment.. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our investee companies and harm our operating results.. Many of our investee companies are susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our funds' debt investments during these periods. Therefore, our funds' non-performing assets are likely to increase, and the value of our funds' portfolios are likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions may also decrease the value of any collateral securing our senior secured or second lien secured debt. A severe recession may further decrease the value of such collateral and result in losses of value in such portfolios. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us on terms we deem acceptable. Occurrence of any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.. A covenant breach by our investee companies may harm our operating results.. An investee company's failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its debt and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize an investee company's ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity instruments that our funds hold. Our funds may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting investee company. To the extent our funds incur additional costs and/or do not recover their investments in investee companies, we may earn reduced management and incentive fees, which may adversely affect our results of operations.. The investment management business is competitive.. The investment management business is competitive, with competition based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, business relationships, quality of service provided to investors, investor liquidity and willingness to invest, fund terms (including fees), brand recognition and business reputation. We compete for investors with a number of other investment managers, public and private funds, BDCs, small business investment companies and others. Numerous factors increase our competitive risks, including:. • a number of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and more personnel than we do;. • some of our funds may not perform as well as competitors' funds or other available investment products;. • several of our competitors have raised significant amounts of capital, and many of them have similar investment objectives to ours, which may create additional competition for investment opportunities and may reduce the size and duration of pricing inefficiencies that otherwise could be exploited;. • some of our competitors may have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to us, which may create competitive disadvantages for us with respect to our funds;. 16. • some of our competitors may be subject to less regulation and, accordingly, may have more flexibility to undertake and execute certain business or investments than we do and/or bear less compliance expense than we do;. • some of our competitors may have more flexibility than we have in raising certain types of funds under the investment management contracts they have negotiated with their investors;. • some of our competitors may have better expertise or be regarded by investors as having better expertise in a specific asset class or geographic region than we do; and. • other industry participants may, from time to time, seek to recruit our investment professionals and other employees away from us.. In addition, the attractiveness of our funds relative to investments in other investment products could decrease depending on economic conditions. This competitive pressure could adversely affect our ability to make successful investments and limit our ability to raise future funds, either of which would adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our funds operate in a competitive market for lending that has recently intensified, and competition may limit our funds' ability to originate or acquire desirable loans and investments and could also affect the yields of these assets and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our funds operate in a competitive market for lending that has recently intensified. Our profitability depends, in large part, on our funds' ability to originate or acquire credit investments on attractive terms. In originating or acquiring our target credit investments, we compete with a variety of institutional lenders and investors, including specialty finance companies, public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, BDCs, small business investment companies, REITs, commercial finance and insurance companies and others. Some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us, such as the U.S. government. Many of our competitors or their funds are not subject to the operating constraints associated with qualifying as a RIC under subchapter M of the Code or compliance with the Investment Company Act. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments, offer more attractive pricing, transaction structures, covenants or other terms and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, competition for originations of and investments in our target assets may lead to the yields of such assets decreasing, which may further limit our ability to generate satisfactory returns. Also, as a result of this competition, desirable loans and investments may be limited in the future and our funds may not be able to take advantage of attractive lending and investment opportunities from time to time, thereby limiting their ability to identify and originate loans or make investments that are consistent with their investment objectives. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures our funds face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Dependence on leverage by certain of our funds and by our funds' investee companies subjects us to volatility and contractions in the debt financing markets and could adversely affect our ability to achieve attractive rates of return on those investments.. MCC, SIC and our funds' investee companies rely on the use of leverage, and our ability to achieve attractive rates of return on investments will depend on our ability to access sufficient sources of indebtedness at attractive rates. While our permanent capital vehicles, MCC and SIC, are our only funds that currently rely on the use of leverage, certain of our other funds may in the future rely on the use of leverage. If our funds or the companies in which our funds invest raise capital in the structured credit, leveraged loan and high yield bond markets, the results of their operations may suffer if such markets experience dislocations, contractions or volatility. Any such events could adversely impact the availability of credit to business generally and could lead to an overall weakening of the U.S. and global economies. Any economic downturn could adversely affect the financial resources of our funds and their investments (in particular those investments that depend on credit from third parties or that otherwise participate in the credit markets) and their ability to make principal and interest payments on, or refinance, outstanding debt when due. Moreover, these events could affect the terms of available debt financing with, for example, higher rates, higher equity requirements and/or more restrictive covenants.. The absence of available sources of sufficient debt financing for extended periods of time or an increase in either the general levels of interest rates or in the risk spread demanded by sources of indebtedness would make it more expensive to finance those investments. Certain investments may also be financed through borrowings on fund-level debt facilities, which may or may not be available for a refinancing at the end of their respective terms. Finally, the interest payments on the indebtedness used to finance our funds' investments are generally deductible expenses for income tax purposes, subject to limitations under applicable tax law and policy. Any change in such tax law or policy to eliminate or substantially limit these income tax deductions, as has been discussed from time to time in various jurisdictions, would reduce the after-tax rates of return on the affected investments, which may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results.. Similarly, our funds' investee companies regularly utilize the corporate debt markets to obtain additional financing for their operations. Our investee companies are typically highly leveraged. Those that have credit ratings are typically non-investment grade and those that do not have credit ratings would likely be non-investment grade if they were rated. If the credit markets render. 17. such financing difficult to obtain or more expensive, this may negatively impact the operating performance of those investee companies and, therefore, the investment returns of our funds. In addition, if the markets make it difficult or impossible to refinance debt that is maturing in the near term, some of our investee companies may be unable to repay such debt at maturity and may be forced to sell assets, undergo a recapitalization or seek bankruptcy protection. Any of the foregoing circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our funds may choose to use leverage as part of their respective investment programs. As of December 31, 2017, MCC and SIC were our only funds that relied on leverage. As of December 31, 2017, MCC had a NAV of $419.8 million, $1.1 billion of AUM and an asset coverage ratio of 229%. As of December 31, 2017, SIC had a NAV of $740.2 million, $1.3 billion of AUM and an asset coverage ratio of 233%. The use of leverage poses a significant degree of risk and enhances the possibility of a significant loss to investors. A fund may borrow money from time to time to make investments or may enter into derivative transactions with counterparties that have embedded leverage. The interest expense and other costs incurred in connection with such borrowing may not be recovered by returns on such investments and may be lost, and the timing and magnitude of such losses may be accelerated or exacerbated, in the event of a decline in the market value of such investments. Gains realized with borrowed funds may cause the fund's NAV to increase at a faster rate than would be the case without borrowings. However, if investment results fail to cover the cost of borrowings, the fund's NAV could also decrease faster than if there had been no borrowings. In addition, as BDCs registered under the Investment Company Act, MCC and SIC are each permitted to issue senior securities in amounts such that its asset coverage ratio equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. Each of MCC's and SIC's ability to pay dividends will be restricted if its asset coverage ratio falls below at least 200% and any amounts that it uses to service its indebtedness are not available for dividends to its common stockholders. An increase in interest rates could also decrease the value of fixed-rate debt investments that our funds make. Any of the foregoing circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Some of our funds may invest in companies that are highly leveraged, which may increase the risk of loss associated with those investments.. Some of our funds may invest in companies whose capital structures involve significant leverage. For example, in many non-distressed private equity investments, indebtedness may be as much as 75% or more of an investee company's total debt and equity capitalization, including debt that may be incurred in connection with the investment, whether incurred at or above the investment-level entity. In distressed situations, indebtedness may exceed 100% or more of an investee company's capitalization. Additionally, the debt positions originated or acquired by our funds may be the most junior in what could be a complex capital structure, and thus subject us to the greatest risk of loss.. Investments in highly leveraged entities are also inherently more sensitive to declines in revenues, increases in expenses and interest rates and adverse economic, market and industry developments.. Furthermore, the incurrence of a significant amount of indebtedness by an entity could, among other things:. • subject the entity to a number of restrictive covenants, terms and conditions, any violation of which could be viewed by creditors as an event of default and could materially impact our funds' ability to realize value from the investment;. • allow even moderate reductions in operating cash flow to render the entity unable to service its indebtedness, leading to a bankruptcy or other reorganization of the entity and a loss of part or all of our funds' equity investment in it;. • give rise to an obligation to make mandatory prepayments of debt using excess cash flow, which might limit the entity's ability to respond to changing industry conditions if additional cash is needed for the response, to make unplanned but necessary capital expenditures or to take advantage of growth opportunities;. • limit the entity's ability to adjust to changing market conditions, thereby placing it at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have relatively less debt;. • limit the entity's ability to engage in strategic acquisitions that might be necessary to generate attractive returns or further growth; and. • limit the entity's ability to obtain additional financing or increase the cost of obtaining such financing, including for capital expenditures, working capital or other general corporate purposes.. As a result, the risk of loss associated with a leveraged entity is generally greater than for companies with comparatively less debt. For example, a number of investments consummated by private equity sponsors during 2005, 2006 and 2007 that utilized significant amounts of leverage subsequently experienced severe economic stress and, in certain cases, defaulted on their debt obligations due to a decrease in revenues and cash flows precipitated by the subsequent economic downturn during 2008 and 2009.. 18. We generally do not control the business operations of our investee companies and, due to the illiquid nature of our investments, may not be able to dispose of such investments.. Investments by our funds generally consist of debt instruments and equity securities of companies that we do not control. We do not expect to control most of our investee companies, even though we may have board representation or board observation rights, and our debt agreements may impose certain restrictive covenants on our borrowers. As a result, we are subject to the risk that an investee company in which our funds invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors. Due to the lack of liquidity for our investments in private companies, we may not be able to dispose of our interests in our investee companies as readily as we would like or at an appropriate valuation. As a result, an investee company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our investment holdings.. A substantial portion of our investments may be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our respective funds' boards of directors or similar bodies and, as a result, there may be uncertainty regarding the value of our funds' investments.. The debt and equity instruments in which our funds invest for which market quotations are not readily available will be valued at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of such fund's board of directors or similar body. Most, if not all, of our funds' investments (other than cash and cash equivalents) are classified as Level III under Accounting Standards Codification (\"ASC\") Topic 820 - Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures. This means that our funds' portfolio valuations will be based on unobservable inputs and our funds' assumptions about how market participants would price the asset or liability in question. We expect that inputs into the determination of fair value of our funds' portfolio investments will require significant management judgment or estimation. Even if observable market data were available, such information may be the result of consensus pricing information or broker quotes, which include a disclaimer that the broker would not be held to such a price in an actual transaction. The non-binding nature of consensus pricing and/or quotes accompanied by disclaimers materially reduces the reliability of such information. Our funds retain the services of an independent service provider to review the valuation of these loans and securities.. The types of factors that the board of directors, general partner or similar body may take into account in determining the fair value of a fund's investments generally include, as appropriate, comparison to publicly traded securities including such factors as yield, maturity and measures of credit quality, the enterprise value of an investee company, the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the investee company's ability to make payments and its earnings and discounted cash flow, the markets in which the investee company does business and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these loans and securities existed. Our funds' NAV could be adversely affected if determinations regarding the fair value of such funds' investments were materially higher than the values that such funds' ultimately realize upon the disposal of such loans and securities.. We may need to pay \"clawback\" obligations if and when they are triggered under the governing agreements with respect to certain of our funds and SMAs.. Generally, if at the termination of a fund (and sometimes at interim points in the life of a fund), the fund has not achieved investment returns that (in most cases) exceed the preferred return threshold or (in all cases) the general partner receives net profits over the life of the fund in excess of its allocable share under the applicable partnership agreement, we will be obligated to repay an amount equal to the extent to which carried interest that was previously distributed to us exceeds the amounts to which we are ultimately entitled. These repayment obligations may correspond to amounts previously distributed to our senior professionals prior to our IPO, with respect to which our Class A common stockholders did not receive any benefit. This obligation is known as a \"clawback\" obligation. Medley had not received any distributions of performance fees through December 31, 2017, other than tax distributions, a portion of which is subject to clawback. As of December 31, 2017, we recorded a $7.2 million clawback obligation that would need to be paid if the funds were liquidated at fair value as of the end of the reporting period. Had we assumed all existing investments were worthless as of December 31, 2017, there would be no additional amounts subject to clawback.. Although a clawback obligation is several to each person who received a distribution, and not a joint obligation, the governing agreements of our funds generally provide that, if a recipient does not fund his or her respective share, we may have to fund such additional amounts beyond the amount of carried interest we retained, although we generally will retain the right to pursue remedies against those carried interest recipients who fail to fund their obligations. We may need to use or reserve cash to repay such clawback obligations instead of using the cash for other purposes. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Contingent Obligations.\". Our funds may face risks relating to undiversified investments.. While diversification is generally an objective of our funds, there can be no assurance as to the degree of diversification, if any, that will be achieved in any fund investments. Difficult market conditions or slowdowns affecting a particular asset class,. 19. geographic region or other category of investment could have a significant adverse impact on a fund if its investments are concentrated in that area, which would result in lower investment returns. This lack of diversification may expose a fund to losses disproportionate to economic conditions or market declines in general if there are disproportionately greater adverse movements in the particular investments. If a fund holds investments concentrated in a particular issuer, security, asset class or geographic region, such fund may be more susceptible than a more widely diversified investment portfolio to the negative consequences of a single corporate, economic, political or regulatory event. Accordingly, a lack of diversification on the part of a fund could adversely affect a fund's performance and, as a result, our results of operations and financial condition.. Third-party investors in our private funds may not satisfy their contractual obligation to fund capital calls when requested, which could adversely affect a fund's operations and performance.. Investors in our private funds make capital commitments to those funds that we are entitled to call from those investors at any time during prescribed periods. We depend on investors fulfilling and honoring their commitments when we call capital from them for those funds to consummate investments and otherwise pay their obligations when due. Any investor that did not fund a capital call would be subject to several possible penalties, including having a meaningful amount of its existing investment forfeited in that fund. However, the impact of the penalty is directly correlated to the amount of capital previously invested by the investor in the fund and if an investor has invested little or no capital, for instance early in the life of the fund, then the forfeiture penalty may not be as meaningful. Investors may also negotiate for lesser or reduced penalties at the outset of the fund, thereby limiting our ability to enforce the funding of a capital call. Third-party investors in private funds often use distributions from prior investments to meet future capital calls. In cases where valuations of existing investments fall and the pace of distributions slows, investors may be unable to make new commitments to third-party managed investment funds such as those advised by us. A failure of investors to honor a significant amount of capital calls for any particular fund or funds could have a material adverse effect on the operation and performance of those funds.. Our funds may be forced to dispose of investments at a disadvantageous time.. Our funds may make investments that they do not advantageously dispose of prior to the date the applicable fund is dissolved, either by expiration of such fund's term or otherwise. Although we generally expect that investments will be disposed of prior to dissolution or be suitable for in-kind distribution at dissolution, and the general partners of the funds have only a limited ability to extend the term of the fund with the consent of fund investors or the advisory board of the fund, as applicable, our funds may have to sell, distribute or otherwise dispose of investments at a disadvantageous time as a result of dissolution. This would result in a lower than expected return on the investments and, perhaps, on the fund itself.. Hedging strategies may adversely affect the returns on our funds' investments.. When managing our exposure to market risks, we may (on our own behalf or on behalf of our funds) from time to time use forward contracts, options, swaps (including total return swaps), caps, collars, floors, foreign currency forward contracts, currency swap agreements, currency option contracts or other strategies. The success of any hedging or other derivative transactions generally will depend on our ability to correctly predict market or foreign exchange changes, the degree of correlation between price movements of a derivative instrument and the position being hedged, the creditworthiness of the counterparty and other factors. As a result, while we may enter into a transaction to reduce our or a fund's exposure to market risks, the transaction may result in poorer overall investment performance than if it had not been executed. Such transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the value of a hedged position increases.. While such hedging arrangements may reduce certain risks, such arrangements themselves may entail certain other risks. These arrangements may require the posting of cash collateral at a time when we or a fund has insufficient cash or illiquid assets such that the posting of the cash is either impossible or requires the sale of assets at prices that do not reflect their underlying value. Moreover, these hedging arrangements may generate significant transaction costs, including potential tax costs, that may reduce the returns generated by a fund. Finally, the CFTC has made several public statements that it may soon issue a proposal for certain foreign exchange products to be subject to mandatory clearing, which could increase the cost of entering into currency hedges.. Our business depends in large part on our ability to raise capital from investors. If we were unable to raise such capital, we would be unable to collect management fees or deploy such capital into investments, which would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our ability to raise capital from investors depends on a number of factors, including many that are outside our control. Investors may downsize their investment allocations to credit focused private funds or BDCs or to rebalance a disproportionate weighting of their overall investment portfolio among asset classes. Poor performance of our funds could also make it more difficult for us to raise new capital. Our investors and potential investors continually assess our funds' performance independently and relative to market benchmarks and our competitors, and our ability to raise capital for existing and future funds depends on our funds' performance. If economic and market conditions deteriorate, we may be unable to raise sufficient amounts of capital to support the investment activities of future funds. If we were unable to successfully raise capital, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected.. 20. We depend on our senior management team, senior investment professionals and other key personnel, and our ability to retain them and attract additional qualified personnel is critical to our success and our growth prospects.. We depend on the diligence, skill, judgment, business contacts and personal reputations of our senior management team, including Brook Taube and Seth Taube, our co-Chief Executive Officers, senior investment professionals and other key personnel. Our future success will depend upon our ability to retain our senior professionals and other key personnel and our ability to recruit additional qualified personnel. These individuals possess substantial experience and expertise in investing, are responsible for locating and executing our funds' investments, have significant relationships with the institutions that are the source of many of our funds' investment opportunities and, in certain cases, have strong relationships with our investors. Therefore, if any of our senior professionals or other key personnel join competitors or form competing companies, it could result in the loss of significant investment opportunities and certain existing investors.. The departure for any reason of any of our senior professionals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives, cause certain of our investors to withdraw capital they invest with us or elect not to commit additional capital to our funds or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and our prospects. The departure of some or all of those individuals could also trigger certain \"key man\" provisions in the documentation governing certain of our funds, which would permit the investors in those funds to suspend or terminate such funds' investment periods or, in the case of certain funds, permit investors to withdraw their capital prior to expiration of the applicable lock-up date. We do not carry any \"key man\" insurance that would provide us with proceeds in the event of the death or disability of any of our senior professionals, and we do not have a policy that prohibits our senior professionals from traveling together.. We anticipate that it will be necessary for us to add investment professionals both to grow our business and to replace those who depart. However, the market for qualified investment professionals is extremely competitive and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or we may fail to effectively replace current personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors. Our efforts to retain and attract investment professionals may also result in significant additional expenses, which could adversely affect our profitability or result in an increase in the portion of our performance fees that we grant to our investment professionals.. Our failure to appropriately address conflicts of interest could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business.. As we have expanded and as we continue to expand the number and scope of our business, we increasingly confront potential conflicts of interest relating to our funds' investment activities. Certain of our funds may have overlapping investment objectives, including funds that have different fee structures, and potential conflicts may arise with respect to our decisions regarding how to allocate investment opportunities among those funds. For example, a decision to receive material non-public information about a company while pursuing an investment opportunity for a particular fund gives rise to a potential conflict of interest when it results in our having to restrict the ability of other funds to take any action.. In most cases, Medley is permitted to co-invest among our private funds, our SMAs, our public business development companies and other advisory clients pursuant to an exemptive order issued by the SEC. We have adopted an order aggregation and trade allocation policy designed to ensure that all of our clients are treated fairly and to prevent this form of conflict from influencing the allocation of investment opportunities among clients. Allocations will generally be made pro rata principally based on each fund or advisory client's capital available for investment. It is Medley's policy to base its determinations as to the amounts of capital available for investment on such factors as: the amount of cash on hand, existing capital commitments and reserves, if any, the targeted leverage level, the targeted asset mix and diversification requirements and other investment policies and restrictions or otherwise imposed by applicable laws, rules, regulations or interpretations.. We may also cause different funds to invest in a single investee company, for example, where the fund that made an initial investment no longer has capital available to invest. We may also cause different funds that we advise to purchase different classes of investments or securities in the same investee company. For example, certain of our funds hold minority equity interests, or have the right to acquire such equity interests, in some of our investee companies. As a result, we may face conflicts of interests in connection with making business decisions for these investee companies to the extent that such decisions affect the debt and equity holders in these investee companies differently. In addition, we may face conflicts of interests in connection with making investment or other decisions, including granting loan waivers or concessions with respect to these investee companies given that we also manage private funds that may hold equity interests in these investee companies. In addition, conflicts of interest may exist in the valuation of our investments and regarding decisions about the allocation of specific investment opportunities among us and our funds and the allocation of fees and costs among us and our funds. Though we believe we have developed appropriate policies and procedures to resolve these conflicts, our judgment on any particular allocation could be challenged. If we fail to appropriately address any such conflicts, it could negatively impact our reputation and ability to raise additional funds and the willingness of counterparties to do business with us or result in potential litigation against us.. 21. Potential conflicts of interest may arise between our Class A common stockholders and our fund investors.. Our subsidiaries that serve as the investment advisors to, or the general partners of, our funds may have fiduciary duties and/or contractual obligations to those funds and their investors. As a result, we expect to regularly take actions with respect to the purchase or sale of investments in our funds, the structuring of investment transactions for the funds or otherwise in a manner consistent with such duties and obligations but that might at the same time adversely affect our near-term results of operations or cash flows. This may in turn have an adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock and/or on the interests of our Class A common stockholders. Additionally, to the extent we fail to appropriately deal with any such conflicts of interest, it could negatively impact our reputation and ability to raise additional funds.. Rapid growth of our business may be difficult to sustain and may place significant demands on our administrative, operational and financial resources.. Our assets under management have grown significantly in the past and we are pursuing further growth. Our rapid growth has placed, and planned growth, if successful, will continue to place, significant demands on our legal, compliance, accounting and operational infrastructure, and has increased expenses associated with all of the foregoing. In addition, we are required to continuously develop our systems and infrastructure in response to the increasing sophistication of the investment management market and legal, accounting, regulatory and tax developments. Our future growth will depend in part on our ability to maintain an operating platform and management system sufficient to address our growth and will require us to incur significant additional expenses and to commit additional senior management and operational resources. As a result, we face significant challenges:. • in maintaining adequate financial, regulatory (legal, tax and compliance) and business controls;. • in implementing new or updated information and financial systems and procedures; and. • in training, managing and appropriately sizing our work force and other components of our business on a timely and cost-effective basis.. We may not be able to manage our expanding operations effectively or be able to continue to grow, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and control our expenses.. We may enter into new lines of business and expand into new investment strategies, geographic markets and business, each of which may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our businesses.. We intend to grow our business by increasing assets under management in existing business and, if market conditions warrant, by expanding into complementary investment strategies, geographic markets and businesses. Accordingly, we may pursue growth through acquisitions of other investment management companies, acquisitions of critical business partners or other strategic initiatives, which may include entering into new lines of business. Attempts to expand our business involve a number of special risks, including some or all of the following:. • the required investment of capital and other resources;. • the assumption of liabilities in any acquired business;. • the disruption of our ongoing business;. • entry into markets or lines of business in which we may have limited or no experience;. • increasing demands on our operational and management systems and controls;. • compliance with additional regulatory requirements;. • potential increase in investor concentration; and. • the broadening of our geographic footprint, increasing the risks associated with conducting operations in certain foreign jurisdictions where we currently have no presence.. Entry into certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk. If a new business does not generate sufficient revenues or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our strategic initiatives may include joint ventures, in which case we will be subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. Because we have not yet identified these potential new investment strategies, geographic markets or lines of business, we cannot identify for you all the risks we may face and the potential adverse consequences on us and your investment that may result from any attempted expansion.. 22. Extensive regulation affects our activities, increases the cost of doing business and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Our business is subject to extensive regulation, including periodic examinations, by governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. The SEC oversees the activities of our subsidiaries that are registered investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act. In addition, we regularly rely on exemptions from various requirements of the Securities Act, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the \"Exchange Act\"), the Investment Company Act, the Commodity Exchange Act and the U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. These exemptions are sometimes highly complex and may in certain circumstances depend on compliance by third parties who we do not control. If for any reason these exemptions were to be revoked or challenged or otherwise become unavailable to us, we could be subject to regulatory action or third-party claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The SEC has indicated that investment advisers who receive transaction-based compensation for investment banking or acquisition activities relating to fund investee companies may be required to register as broker-dealers. Specifically, the SEC staff has noted that if a firm receives fees from a fund investee company in connection with the acquisition, disposition or recapitalization of such investee company, such activities could raise broker-dealer concerns under applicable regulations related to broker dealers. If we receive such transaction fees and the SEC takes the position that such activities render us a \"broker\" under the applicable rules and regulations of the Exchange Act, we could be subject to additional regulation. If receipt of transaction fees from an investee company is determined to require a broker-dealer license, receipt of such transaction fees in the past or in the future during any time when we did not or do not have a broker-dealer license could subject us to liability for fines, penalties, damages or other remedies.. Since 2010, certain states and other regulatory authorities have begun to require investment managers to register as lobbyists in connection with their solicitation of commitments from governmental entities, including state and municipal pension funds. We have registered as such in a number of jurisdictions, including California and New York. Other states or municipalities may consider similar legislation or adopt regulations or procedures with similar effect. These registration requirements impose significant compliance obligations and restrictions on registered lobbyists and their employers, which may include annual registration fees, periodic disclosure reports and internal recordkeeping, and may also prohibit the payment of contingent fees.. Each of the regulatory bodies with jurisdiction over us has regulatory powers dealing with many aspects of financial services, including the authority to grant, and in specific circumstances to cancel, permissions to carry on particular activities. A failure to comply with the obligations imposed by the Investment Advisers Act, including recordkeeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities, could result in investigations, sanctions and reputational damage. We are involved regularly in trading activities that implicate a broad number of U.S. securities law regimes, including laws governing trading on inside information, market manipulation and a broad number of technical trading requirements that implicate fundamental market regulation policies. Violation of these laws could result in severe restrictions on our activities and damage to our reputation.. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of the registration of our relevant subsidiaries as investment advisers or registered broker-dealers. The regulations to which our business is subject are designed primarily to protect investors in our funds and to ensure the integrity of the financial markets. They are not designed to protect our stockholders. Even if a sanction imposed against us, one of our subsidiaries or our personnel by a regulator is for a small monetary amount, the adverse publicity related to the sanction could harm our reputation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business in a number of ways, making it harder for us to raise new funds and discouraging others from doing business with us.. Failure to comply with \"pay to play\" regulations implemented by the SEC and certain states, and changes to the \"pay to play\" regulatory regimes, could adversely affect our business.. In recent years, the SEC and several states have initiated investigations alleging that certain private equity firms and hedge funds or agents acting on their behalf have paid money to current or former government officials or their associates in exchange for improperly soliciting contracts with state pension funds. In June 2010, the SEC approved Rule 206(4)-5 under the Investment Advisers Act regarding \"pay to play\" practices by investment advisers involving campaign contributions and other payments to government officials able to exert influence on potential government entity clients. Among other restrictions, the rule prohibits investment advisers from providing advisory services for compensation to a government entity for two years, subject to very limited exceptions, after the investment adviser, its senior executives or its personnel involved in soliciting investments from government entities make contributions to certain candidates and officials in a position to influence the hiring of an investment adviser by such government entity. Advisers are required to implement compliance policies designed, among other matters, to track contributions by certain of the adviser's employees and engagements of third parties that solicit government entities and to keep certain records to enable the SEC to determine compliance with the rule. In addition, there have been similar rules on a state level regarding \"pay to play\" practices by investment advisers.. 23. As a number of public pension plans are investors in our funds, these rules could impose significant economic sanctions on our business if we or one of the other persons covered by the rules make any such contribution or payment, whether or not material or with an intent to secure an investment from a public pension plan. In addition, such investigations may require the attention of senior management and may result in fines or forfeitures of fees paid and an obligation to provide services without payment of fees if any of our funds are deemed to have violated any regulations, thereby imposing additional expenses on us. Any failure on our part to comply with these rules could cause us to lose compensation for our advisory services or expose us to significant penalties and reputational damage.. New or changed laws or regulations governing our funds' operations and changes in the interpretation thereof could adversely affect our business.. The laws and regulations governing the operations of our funds, as well as their interpretation, may change from time to time, and new laws and regulations may be enacted. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations, changes in their interpretation, or newly enacted laws or regulations and any failure by our funds to comply with these laws or regulations, could require changes to certain of our business practices, negatively impact our operations, assets under management or financial condition, impose additional costs on us or otherwise adversely affect our business. See \"Business - Regulatory and Compliance Matters\" for a discussion of our regulatory and compliance environment. The following includes the most significant regulatory risks facing our business:. • Changes in capital requirements may increase the cost of our financing. If regulatory capital requirements - whether under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the \"Dodd-Frank Act\"), Basel III, or other regulatory action - were to be imposed on our funds, they may be required to limit, or increase the cost of, financing they provide to others. Among other things, this could potentially require our funds to sell assets at an inopportune time or price, which could negatively impact our operations, assets under management or financial condition.. • The imposition of additional legal or regulatory requirements could make compliance more difficult and expensive, affect the manner in which we conduct our business and adversely affect our profitability. In July 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, imposes significant new regulations on nearly every aspect of the U.S. financial services industry, including new registration, recordkeeping and reporting requirements on private fund investment advisers. Importantly, while several key aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act have been defined through final rules, many aspects will be implemented by various regulatory bodies over the next several years. While we already have several subsidiaries registered as investment advisers subject to SEC examinations, the imposition of any additional legal or regulatory requirements could make compliance more difficult and expensive, affect the manner in which we conduct our business and adversely affect our profitability.. • The implementation of the Volcker Rule could have adverse implications on our ability to raise funds from certain entities. In December 2013, the Federal Reserve and other federal regulatory agencies adopted a final rule implementing a section of the Dodd-Frank Act that has become known as the \"Volcker Rule.\" The Volcker Rule generally prohibits insured banks or thrifts, any bank holding company or savings and loan holding company, any non-U.S. bank with a U.S. branch, agency or commercial lending company and any subsidiaries and affiliates of such entities, regardless of geographic location, from investing in or sponsoring \"covered funds,\" which include private equity funds or hedge funds and certain other proprietary activities. The effects of the Volcker Rule are uncertain but it is in any event likely to curtail various banking activities that in turn could result in uncertainties in the financial markets as well as our business. Although we do not currently anticipate that the Volcker Rule will adversely affect our fundraising to any significant extent, there is uncertainty regarding the implementation of the Volcker Rule and its practical implications, and there could be adverse implications on our ability to raise funds from the types of entities mentioned above as a result of this prohibition.. • Increased regulation on banks' leveraged lending activities could negatively affect the terms and availability of credit to our funds and their investee companies. In March 2013, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Department of the Treasury, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation published revised guidance regarding expectations for banks' leveraged lending activities. This guidance, in addition to proposed Dodd-Frank risk retention rules circulated in August 2013, could further restrict credit availability, as well as potentially restrict certain of our investing activities that rely on banks' lending activities. This could negatively affect the terms and availability of credit to our funds and their investee companies.. • New restrictions on compensation could limit our ability to recruit and retain investment professionals. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes federal regulatory agencies to review and, in certain cases, prohibit compensation arrangements at financial institutions that give employees incentives to engage in conduct deemed to encourage inappropriate risk-. 24. taking by covered financial institutions. Such restrictions could limit our ability to recruit and retain investment professionals and senior management executives.. • Regulatory uncertainty could negatively impact our ability to efficiently project, plan and operate our business impacting profitability. In early February 2017, the new Trump administration issued an executive order calling for a review of laws and regulations affecting the U.S. financial industry in order to determine their consistency with a set of core principles identified in the executive order. Several bills are pending in Congress that, if enacted, would amend the Dodd-Frank Act, including the Financial CHOICE Act (the \"CHOICE Act\"), which was approved by the House of Representatives and the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act which is awaiting consideration in the Senate. The Administration has expressed support for these proposals and encouraged the House and Senate to work together to present legislation to the President as quickly as possible. The House and Senate legislation, while different, could change the process and criteria for designating systemically important financial institutions, modify the Volcker Rule and make reforms to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, among other amendments to the Dodd-Frank Act. The CHOICE Act would also significantly enhance the SEC's enforcement capabilities and increase the maximum civil penalties and criminal sanctions under federal securities laws, including under the Investment Company Act and the Advisers Act. Both the House and Senate proposals are still subject to amendment and possible reconciliation into a single proposal, the scope of which is not possible to determine at this time nor is it possible to determine if and when such a proposal may be presented to the President for enactment.. It is difficult to determine the full extent of the impact on us of the Financial Choice Act, the Dodd-Frank Act or any other new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed or whether any of the proposals will become law. In addition, as a result of proposed legislation, shifting areas of focus of regulatory enforcement bodies or otherwise, regulatory compliance practices may shift such that formerly accepted industry practices become disfavored or less common. Any changes or other developments in the regulatory framework applicable to our businesses, including the changes described above and changes to formerly accepted industry practices, may impose additional costs on us, require the attention of our senior management or result in limitations on the manner in which we conduct our businesses. Moreover, as calls for additional regulation have increased, there may be a related increase in regulatory investigations of the trading and other investment activities of alternative asset management funds, including our funds. In addition, we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. Compliance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive, affect the manner in which we conduct our businesses and adversely affect our profitability.. Present and future BDCs for which we serve as investment adviser are subject to regulatory complexities that limit the way in which they do business and may subject them to a higher level of regulatory scrutiny.. MCC and SIC, and other BDCs for which we may serve as investment adviser in the future, operate under a complex regulatory environment. Such BDCs require the application of complex tax and securities regulations and may entail a higher level of regulatory scrutiny. In addition, regulations affecting BDCs generally affect their ability to take certain actions. For example, each of MCC and SIC has elected to be treated as a RIC for United States federal income tax purposes. To maintain their status as a RIC, such vehicles must meet, among other things, certain source of income, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. If any of our BDCs fails to qualify for RIC tax treatment for any reason and remains or becomes subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could, among other things, substantially reduce such BDC's net assets.. In addition, MCC and SIC are subject to complex rules under the Investment Company Act, including rules that restrict certain of our funds from engaging in transactions with MCC and SIC. Under the regulatory and business environment in which they operate, MCC and SIC must periodically access the capital markets to raise cash to fund new investments in excess of their repayments to grow. This results from MCC and SIC each being required to generally distribute to their respective stockholders at least 90% of its investment company taxable income to maintain its RIC status, combined with regulations under the Investment Company Act that, subject to certain exceptions, generally prohibit MCC and SIC from issuing and selling their common stock at a price below NAV per share and from incurring indebtedness (including for this purpose, preferred stock), if their asset coverage, as calculated pursuant to the Investment Company Act, equals less than 200% after such incurrence. If our BDCs are found to be in violation of the Investment Company Act, they could lose their status as BDCs. If either of our BDCs fails to continuously qualify as a BDC, such BDC might be subject to regulation as a registered closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would significantly decrease its operating flexibility. In addition, failure to comply with the requirements imposed on BDCs by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against such BDC, which could have a material adverse effect on us.. We are subject to risks in using custodians, counterparties, administrators and other agents.. Some of our funds depend on the services of custodians, counterparties, administrators, prime brokers and other agents to carry out certain financing, securities and derivatives transactions. The terms of these contracts are often customized and complex, and many of these arrangements occur in markets or relate to products that are not subject to regulatory oversight, although the Dodd-Frank Act provides for new regulation of the derivatives market. In particular, some of our funds utilize arrangements with. 25. a relatively limited number of counterparties, which has the effect of concentrating the transaction volume (and related counterparty default risk) of such funds with these counterparties.. Our funds are subject to the risk that the counterparty to one or more of these contracts defaults, either voluntarily or involuntarily, on its performance under the contract. Any such default may occur suddenly and without notice to us. Moreover, if a counterparty defaults, we may be unable to take action to cover our exposure, either because we lack contractual recourse or because market conditions make it difficult to take effective action. This inability could occur in times of market stress, which is when defaults are most likely to occur.. In addition, our risk-management process may not accurately anticipate the impact of market stress or counterparty financial condition, and as a result, we may not have taken sufficient action to reduce our risks effectively. Default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect, foresee or evaluate. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one large participant could lead to significant liquidity problems for other participants, which may in turn expose us to significant losses.. Although we have risk-management processes to ensure that we are not exposed to a single counterparty for significant periods of time, given the large number and size of our funds, we often have large positions with a single counterparty. For example, some of our funds have credit lines. If the lender under one or more of those credit lines were to become insolvent, we may have difficulty replacing the credit line and one or more of our funds may face liquidity problems.. In the event of a counterparty default, particularly a default by a major investment bank or a default by a counterparty to a significant number of our contracts, one or more of our funds may have outstanding trades that they cannot settle or are delayed in settling. As a result, these funds could incur material losses and the resulting market impact of a major counterparty default could harm our business, results of operation and financial condition.. In the event of the insolvency of a prime broker, custodian, counterparty or any other party that is holding assets of our funds as collateral, our funds might not be able to recover equivalent assets in full as they will rank among the prime broker's, custodian's or counterparty's unsecured creditors in relation to the assets held as collateral. In addition, our funds' cash held with a prime broker, custodian or counterparty generally will not be segregated from the prime broker's, custodian's or counterparty's own cash, and our funds may therefore rank as unsecured creditors in relation thereto. If our derivatives transactions are cleared through a derivatives clearing organization, the CFTC has issued final rules regulating the segregation and protection of collateral posted by customers of cleared and uncleared swaps. The CFTC is also working to provide new guidance regarding prime broker arrangements and intermediation generally with regard to trading on swap execution facilities.. The counterparty risks that we face have increased in complexity and magnitude as a result of disruption in the financial markets in recent years. For example, the consolidation and elimination of counterparties has increased our concentration of counterparty risk and decreased the universe of potential counterparties. Our funds are generally not restricted from dealing with any particular counterparty or from concentrating any or all of their transactions with a single counterparty. In addition, counterparties have generally reacted to recent market volatility by tightening their underwriting standards and increasing their margin requirements for all categories of financing, which has the result of decreasing the overall amount of leverage available and increasing the costs of borrowing.. A portion of our revenue and cash flow is variable, which may impact our ability to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis and may cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline.. We believe that base management fees are consistent and predictable. For all periods presented, over 40% of total revenues was derived from base management fees. Due to our investment strategy and the nature of our fees, a portion of our revenue and cash flow is variable, due primarily to the fact that the performance fees from our long-dated private funds and SMAs can vary from quarter to quarter and year to year. For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2015, total revenues of $65.6 million and $67.4 million, respectively, included a reversal of performance fees of $1.7 million and $15.7 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2016, performance fees were 3% of our total revenues. Additionally, we may also experience fluctuations in our results from quarter to quarter and year to year due to a number of other factors, including changes in the values of our funds' investments, changes in our operating expenses, the degree to which we encounter competition and general economic and market conditions. Such variability may lead to volatility in the trading price of our Class A common stock and cause our results for a particular period not to be indicative of our performance in a future period.. We may be subject to litigation risks and may face liabilities and damage to our professional reputation as a result.. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against investment managers have been increasing. We make investment decisions on behalf of investors in our funds that could result in substantial losses. This may subject us to the risk of legal liabilities or actions alleging negligent misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty or breach of contract. Further, we may be subject to third-party litigation arising from allegations that we improperly exercised control or influence over portfolio investments. In addition, we and our affiliates that are the investment managers and general partners of our funds, our funds themselves and those of our employees who are our, our subsidiaries' or the funds' officers and directors are each exposed to the risks of litigation specific to the funds' investment activities and investee companies and, in the. 26. case where our funds own controlling interests in public companies, to the risk of shareholder litigation by the public companies' other shareholders. Moreover, we are exposed to risks of litigation or investigation by investors or regulators relating to our having engaged, or our funds having engaged, in transactions that presented conflicts of interest that were not properly addressed.. Legal liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause reputational harm to us, which could harm our business. We depend to a large extent on our business relationships and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain investors and to pursue investment opportunities for our funds. As a result, allegations of improper conduct by private litigants or regulators, whether the ultimate outcome is favorable or unfavorable to us, as well as negative publicity and press speculation about us, our investment activities or the investment industry in general, whether or not valid, may harm our reputation, which may be damaging to our business.. Employee misconduct could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain investors and subjecting us to significant legal liability, regulatory scrutiny and reputational harm. Fraud and other deceptive practices or other misconduct at our investee companies could similarly subject us to liability and reputational damage and also harm our business.. Our ability to attract and retain investors and to pursue investment opportunities for our funds depends heavily upon the reputation of our professionals, especially our senior professionals. We are subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our investment management business and our authority over the assets managed by our investment management business. The violation of these obligations and standards by any of our employees could adversely affect investors in our funds and us. Our business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to companies in which our funds may invest. If our employees were to use or disclose confidential information improperly, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position and current and future business relationships. It is not always possible to detect or deter employee misconduct, and the extensive precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. If one or more of our employees were to engage in misconduct or were to be accused of such misconduct, our business and our reputation could be adversely affected and a loss of investor confidence could result, which would adversely impact our ability to raise future funds.. In addition, we could be adversely affected as a result of actual or alleged misconduct by personnel of investee companies in which our funds invest. For example, failures by personnel at our investee companies to comply with anti-bribery, trade sanctions or other legal and regulatory requirements could expose us to litigation or regulatory action and otherwise adversely affect our business and reputation. Such misconduct could undermine our due diligence efforts with respect to such companies and could negatively affect the valuation of a fund's investments.. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to pay our debts or raise additional capital to fund our operations, our ability to operate our business and our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and could divert our cash flow from operations for debt payments.. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2017, our total indebtedness, excluding unamortized discount, premium, and issuance costs, was approximately $132.6 million. Our substantial debt obligations could have important consequences, including:. • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations and pursue future business opportunities;. • exposing us to increased interest expense, as our degree of leverage may cause the interest rates of any future indebtedness (whether fixed or floating rate interest) to be higher than they would be otherwise;. • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our indebtedness is at variable rates of interest;. • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default that accelerates our obligation to repay indebtedness;. • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments;. • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;. • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, product development, satisfaction of debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and. • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be better positioned to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting.. 27. Our Revolving Credit Facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities.. The credit agreement that governs our Revolving Credit Facility imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions will limit our ability and/or the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things:. • incur additional indebtedness, make guarantees and enter into hedging arrangements;. • create liens on assets;. • enter into sale and leaseback transactions;. • engage in mergers or consolidations;. • sell assets;. • make fundamental changes;. • pay dividends and distributions or repurchase our capital stock;. • make investments, loans and advances, including acquisitions;. • engage in certain transactions with affiliates;. • make changes in the nature of our business; and. • make prepayments of junior debt.. In addition, the credit agreement governing our Revolving Credit Facility requires us to maintain, with respect to each four quarter period commencing with the four quarter period ending September 30, 2017, a ratio of net debt to Core EBITDA not greater than 5.0 to 1.0, a ratio of total debt to Core EBITDA not greater than 7.0 to 1.0 and a minimum Core EBITDA of not less than $15.0 million. The ratio of net debt to Core EBITDA, total debt to Core EBITDA and minimum Core EBITDA in respect of the Senior Secured Credit Facilities is calculated using our standalone financial results and includes the adjustments made to calculate Core EBITDA. See \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Debt Instruments.\". As a result of these restrictions, we will be limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants.. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above as well as other terms of our other indebtedness and/or the terms of any future indebtedness from time to time could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or are unable to refinance these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are not within our control.. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. To a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations or raise additional debt or equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and these actions may not be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. In addition, the terms of our existing or future debt arrangements may restrict us from effecting any of these alternatives.. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt and enter into other transactions, which could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above.. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the credit agreement that governs our Revolving Credit Facility contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. Additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. To the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described in the preceding three risk factors would increase.. 28. Operational risks may disrupt our business, result in losses or limit our growth.. Our business relies heavily on financial, accounting and other information systems and technology. We face various security threats, including cyber security attacks to our information technology infrastructure and attempts to gain access to our proprietary information, destroy data or disable, degrade or sabotage our systems. These security threats could originate from a wide variety of sources, including unknown third parties outside of Medley. Although we have not yet been subject to cyber-attacks or other cyber incidents and we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate these threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent disruptions to our systems. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled for any reason or if there is any unauthorized disclosure of data, whether as a result of tampering, a breach of our network security systems, a cyber-incident or attack or otherwise, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our business, liability to our funds, regulatory intervention or reputational damage.. In addition, our information systems and technology may not continue to be able to accommodate our growth, and the cost of maintaining the systems may increase from its current level. Such a failure to accommodate growth, or an increase in costs related to the information systems, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Furthermore, we depend on our offices in New York and San Francisco, where a substantial portion of our personnel are located, for the continued operation of our business. An earthquake or other disaster or a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business, including a disruption involving electronic communications or other services used by us or third parties with whom we conduct business, or directly affecting our headquarters, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. Although we have disaster recovery programs in place, these may not be sufficient to mitigate the harm that may result from such a disaster or disruption. In addition, insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses, if at all.. Finally, we rely on third-party service providers for certain aspects of our business, including for certain information systems, technology and administration of our funds and compliance matters. Any interruption or deterioration in the performance of these third parties or failures of their information systems and technology could impair the quality of our funds' operations and could impact our reputation, adversely affect our business and limit our ability to grow.. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure. Medley Management Inc.'s only material asset is its interest in Medley LLC, and it is accordingly dependent upon distributions from Medley LLC to pay taxes, make payments under the tax receivable agreement or pay dividends.. Medley Management Inc. is a holding company and has no material assets other than its ownership of LLC Units. Medley Management Inc. has no independent means of generating revenue. Medley Management Inc. intends to cause Medley LLC to make distributions to its holders of LLC Units in an amount sufficient to cover all applicable taxes at assumed tax rates, payments under the tax receivable agreement and dividends, if any, declared by it. Deterioration in the financial condition, earnings or cash flow of Medley LLC and its subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay such distributions. Additionally, to the extent that Medley Management Inc. needs funds, and Medley LLC is restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of our financing arrangements, or is otherwise unable to provide such funds, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.. Payments of dividends, if any, is at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our business, operating results and financial condition, current and anticipated cash needs, plans for expansion and any legal or contractual limitations on our ability to pay dividends. Any financing arrangement that we enter into in the future may include restrictive covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends. In addition, Medley LLC is generally prohibited under Delaware law from making a distribution to a member to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, after giving effect to the distribution, liabilities of Medley LLC (with certain exceptions) exceed the fair value of its assets. Subsidiaries of Medley LLC are generally subject to similar legal limitations on their ability to make distributions to Medley LLC.. Medley Management Inc. is controlled by our pre-IPO owners, whose interests may differ from those of our public stockholders.. Medley Group LLC, an entity controlled by our pre-IPO owners, holds approximately 97.6% of the combined voting power of our Class A and Class B common stock. Accordingly, our pre-IPO owners have the ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors, and thereby to control our management and affairs. In addition, they are able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including mergers and other material transactions, and are able to cause or prevent a change in the composition of our board of directors or a change in control of our company that could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their Class A common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Our pre-IPO owners comprise all of the non-managing members of Medley LLC. However, Medley LLC may in the future admit additional non-managing members that would not constitute pre-IPO owners. Because Medley Group LLC, as the holder of our Class B common stock, has a number of votes equal to 10 times the number of LLC Units held by all non-managing members of Medley LLC for so long as our pre-IPO owners and then-current Medley personnel. 29. hold at least 10% of the aggregate number of shares of Class A common stock and LLC Units (excluding the LLC Units held by Medley Management Inc.), we anticipate that Medley Group LLC will continue to have a majority of the combined voting power of our Class A and Class B common stock even when our pre-IPO owners own less than a majority economic interest in our company.. In addition, our pre-IPO owners own 81.3% of the LLC Units. Because they hold their ownership interest in our business directly in Medley LLC, rather than through Medley Management Inc., these pre-IPO owners may have conflicting interests with holders of shares of our Class A common stock. For example, if Medley LLC makes distributions to Medley Management Inc., the non-managing members of Medley LLC will also be entitled to receive such distributions pro rata in accordance with the percentages of their respective limited liability company interests in Medley LLC and their preferences as to the timing and amount of any such distributions may differ from those of our public stockholders. Our pre-IPO owners may also have different tax positions from us which could influence their decisions regarding whether and when to dispose of assets, especially in light of the existence of the tax receivable agreement entered into in connection with our IPO, whether and when to incur new or refinance existing indebtedness, and whether and when Medley Management Inc. should terminate the tax receivable agreement and accelerate its obligations thereunder. In addition, the structuring of future transactions may take into consideration these pre-IPO owners' tax or other considerations even where no similar benefit would accrue to us.. Medley Management Inc. will be required to pay exchanging holders of LLC Units for most of the benefits relating to any additional tax depreciation or amortization deductions that we may claim as a result of the tax basis step-up we receive in connection with sales or exchanges of LLC Units and related transactions.. Holders of LLC Units (other than Medley Management Inc.) may, subject to certain conditions and transfer restrictions applicable to such holders as set forth in the operating agreement of Medley LLC, exchange their LLC Units for Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. The exchanges are expected to result in increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Medley LLC. These increases in tax basis may increase (for tax purposes) depreciation and amortization deductions and therefore reduce the amount of tax that Medley Management Inc. would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") may challenge all or part of that tax basis increase, and a court could sustain such a challenge.. We have entered into a tax receivable agreement with the holders of LLC Units that provides for the payment by Medley Management Inc. to exchanging holders of LLC Units of 85% of the benefits, if any, that Medley Management Inc. is deemed to realize as a result of these increases in tax basis and of certain other tax benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement, including tax benefits attributable to payments under the tax receivable agreement. This payment obligation is an obligation of Medley Management Inc. and not of Medley LLC. While the actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under the tax receivable agreement, will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the price of shares of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable and the amount and timing of our income, we expect that as a result of the size of the transfers and increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Medley LLC, the payments that Medley Management Inc. may make under the tax receivable agreement will be substantial. The payments under the tax receivable agreement are not conditioned upon continued ownership of us by the holders of LLC Units.. In certain cases, payments under the tax receivable agreement may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits Medley Management Inc. realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement.. The tax receivable agreement provides that upon certain changes of control, or if, at any time, Medley Management Inc. elects an early termination of the tax receivable agreement, Medley Management Inc.'s obligations under the tax receivable agreement (with respect to all LLC Units whether or not previously exchanged) would be calculated by reference to the value of all future payments that holders of LLC Units would have been entitled to receive under the tax receivable agreement using certain valuation assumptions, including that Medley Management Inc. will have sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the deductions arising from the increased tax deductions and tax basis and other benefits related to entering into the tax receivable agreement and, in the case of an early termination election, that any LLC Units that have not been exchanged are deemed exchanged for the market value of the shares of Class A common stock at the time of termination. In addition, holders of LLC Units will not reimburse us for any payments previously made under the tax receivable agreement if such tax basis increase is successfully challenged by the IRS. Medley Management Inc.'s ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase, and the payments to be made under the tax receivable agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, including the timing and amount of our future income. As a result, even in the absence of a change of control or an election to terminate the tax receivable agreement, payments under the tax receivable agreement could be in excess of Medley Management Inc.'s actual cash tax savings.. Accordingly, it is possible that the actual cash tax savings realized by Medley Management Inc. may be significantly less than the corresponding tax receivable agreement payments. There may be a material negative effect on our liquidity if the payments under the tax receivable agreement exceed the actual cash tax savings that Medley Management Inc. realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tax receivable agreement and/or distributions to Medley Management Inc. by Medley LLC are not sufficient to permit Medley Management Inc. to make payments under the tax receivable agreement after it has paid taxes and other expenses.. 30. Based upon the $6.50 closing price of our Class A common stock on December 31, 2017 and interest rate of 3.1%, we estimate that, if Medley Management Inc. were to have exercised its termination right on December 31, 2017, the aggregate amount of these termination payments would have been approximately $127.8 million. The foregoing number is merely an estimate and the actual payments could differ materially. We may need to incur additional indebtedness to finance payments under the tax receivable agreement to the extent our cash resources are insufficient to meet our obligations under the tax receivable agreement as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise.. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that you might consider favorable.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the merger or acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. Among other things, these provisions:. • authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of Class A common stock;. • prohibit Class A common stockholders from acting by written consent unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office, but permit Class B common stockholders to act by written consent without requiring any such recommendation;. • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, or repeal our bylaws and that our stockholders may only amend our bylaws with the approval of 80% or more of all of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; and. • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire.. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock. The market price of our Class A common stock may decline due to the large number of shares of Class A common stock eligible for exchange and future sale.. The market price of shares of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of Class A common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell shares of Class A common stock in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.. In addition, we and our pre-IPO owners have entered into an exchange agreement under which they (or certain permitted transferees thereof) have the right (subject to the terms of the exchange agreement), to exchange their LLC Units for shares of our Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to customary conversion rate adjustments. Subject to the terms of the exchange agreement, an aggregate of 23,653,333 LLC Units may be exchanged for shares of our Class A common stock and, subject to the transfer restrictions set forth in the Limited Liability Company Agreement of Medley LLC, sold. The market price of shares of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of the exchange or the perception that an exchange could occur. These exchanges, or the possibility that these exchanges may occur, also might make it more difficult for holders of our Class A common stock to sell such stock in the future at a time and at a price that they deem appropriate.. The disparity in the voting rights among the classes of our capital stock may have a potential adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock.. Each share of our Class A common stock entitles its holder to one vote on all matters to be voted on by stockholders generally. Medley Group LLC, as the holder of our Class B common stock, has a number of votes equal to 10 times the number of LLC Units held by all non-managing members of Medley LLC for so long as our pre-IPO owners and then-current Medley personnel hold at least 10% of the aggregate number of shares of Class A common stock and LLC Units (excluding the LLC Units held by Medley Management Inc.). The difference in voting rights could adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock by, for example, delaying or deferring a change of control or if investors view, or any potential future purchaser of our company views, the superior voting rights of the Class B common stock to have value.. 31. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NYSE's rules and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. You do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.. Medley Group LLC, an entity owned by our pre-IPO owners holds a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. In addition, because Medley Group LLC, as the holder of our Class B common stock, has a number of votes equal to 10 times the number of LLC Units held by all non-managing members of Medley LLC for so long as our pre-IPO owners and then-current Medley personnel hold at least 10% of the aggregate number of shares of Class A common stock and LLC Units (excluding the LLC Units held by Medley Management Inc.), we anticipate that Medley Group LLC will continue to have at least a majority of the combined voting power of our Class A and Class B common stock even when our pre-IPO owners own less than a majority economic interest in our company. As a result, we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power in the election of directors is held by an individual, group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements. For example, controlled companies:. • are not required to have a board that is composed of a majority of \"independent directors,\" as defined under the rules of such exchange;. • are not required to have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and. • are not required to have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors.. We are utilizing these exemptions. As a result, a majority of the directors on our board are not independent. In addition, our compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees do not consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange.. We are an emerging growth company, and any decision on our part to comply with certain reduced reporting and disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an emerging growth company and, for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we currently intend to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to have our independent registered public accounting firm audit our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our registration statements, periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an emerging growth company until December 31, 2019. We will cease to be an emerging growth company upon the earliest of: (i) December 31, 2019; (ii) the first fiscal year after our annual gross revenues are $1.0 billion or more; (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities; or (iv) the end of any fiscal year in which we become a \"large accelerated filer,\" which means that we have been public for at least 12 months, have filed at least one annual report and the market value of our Class A common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last day of our then most recently completed second fiscal quarter. We cannot predict if investors will find our Class A common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Class A common stock less attractive as a result of any choices to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock and the price of our Class A common stock may be more volatile.. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this accommodation allowing for delayed adoption of new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies.. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, stockholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock.. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or any subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our financial statements or identify. 32. other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock.. We are required to disclose changes made in our internal controls and procedures on a quarterly basis and our management is required to assess the effectiveness of these controls annually. However, our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the first annual report required to be filed with the SEC following the date we are no longer an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. We cannot assure you that there will not be material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls in the future. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.. Medley LLC's tax treatment depends on its status as a partnership for United States federal and state income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service (\"IRS\") were to treat Medley LLC as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes, which would subject it to entity-level taxation, or if Medley LLC were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, then Medley LLC's cash available for distributions to us could be substantially reduced.. It is possible, in certain circumstances, for Medley LLC to be taxed as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe that Medley LLC is or will be (or should have been) so treated, if Medley LLC were treated as a \"publicly traded partnership,\" Medley LLC might be taxed as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes. If Medley LLC were taxed as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes, it would pay United States federal income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Therefore, Medley LLC's treatment as a corporation would result in a material reduction in its anticipated cash flow and could materially adversely affect its ability to make cash distributions to us. In addition, changes in current state law may subject Medley LLC to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce Medley LLC's cash available for distributions to us.. Recent legislation could subject Medley LLC to federal income tax liability, which may adversely affect its ability to make cash distributions to us.. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to Medley LLC's federal income tax returns, it may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from Medley LLC. If, as a result of any such audit adjustment, Medley LLC is required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, Medley LLC's cash available for distributions to us may be substantially reduced. These rules are not applicable to Medley LLC for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017.. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade their recommendations regarding our Class A common stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our Class A common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrades our Class A common stock or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our Class A common stock price may decline. If analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our Class A common stock price or trading volume to decline and our Class A common stock to be less liquid.. The market price of shares of our Class A common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline.. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. From January 2015 through December 2017, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated from a high of $15.14 per share in the first quarter of 2015 to a low of $3.43 per share in the first quarter of 2016. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions could reduce the market price of shares of our Class A common stock in spite of our operating performance. In addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors due to a number of potential factors, including variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends, if any, to stockholders, additions or departures of key management personnel, failure to meet analysts' earnings estimates, publication of research reports about our industry, litigation and government investigations, changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations or enforcement thereof affecting our business, adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future, changes in market valuations of similar companies or speculation in the press or investment community, announcements by our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, adverse publicity. 33. about the industries we participate in or individual scandals, and in response the market price of shares of our Class A common stock could decrease significantly. You may be unable to resell your shares of Class A common stock at or above the initial public offering price.. In the past few years, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.. You may be diluted by the future issuance of additional Class A common stock or LLC Units in connection with our incentive plans, acquisitions or otherwise.. As of December 31, 2017, we had 2,993,764,668 shares of Class A common stock authorized but unissued, including approximately 23,653,333 shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exchange of LLC Units that will be held by the non-managing members of Medley LLC. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue these shares of Class A common stock and options, rights, warrants and appreciation rights relating to Class A common stock for the consideration and on the terms and conditions established by our board of directors in its sole discretion, whether in connection with acquisitions or otherwise. Similarly, the limited liability company agreement of Medley LLC permits Medley LLC to issue an unlimited number of additional limited liability company interests of Medley LLC with designations, preferences, rights, powers and duties that are different from, and may be senior to, those applicable to the LLC Units, and which may be exchangeable for shares of our Class A common stock. Additionally, we have reserved an aggregate of 4,500,000 shares of Class A common stock and LLC Units for issuance under our 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan, including 1,451,393 shares issuable upon the vesting of restricted stock units granted as of December 31, 2017. Any Class A common stock that we issue, including under our 2014 Omnibus Incentive Plan or other equity incentive plans that we may adopt in the future, would dilute the percentage ownership held by investors who purchase Class A common stock."
