[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The occurrence of any of the following risks may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Risks Relating to Our Business. The potential loss, delay or non-renewal of our contracts, or the non-payment by our customers for services that we have performed, could adversely affect our results.. We experience termination, cancellation and non-renewals of contracts by our customers in the ordinary course of business, and the number and dollar value of cancellations can vary significantly from year to year.. - 20 -. The time between when a clinical trial is awarded and when it goes to contract is typically several months, and prior to a new business award going to contract, our customers can cancel the award without notice. Moreover, once an award goes to contract, most of our customers for clinical trial services can terminate our contracts without cause upon 30 days' notice. Our customers may delay, terminate or reduce the scope of our contracts for a variety of reasons beyond our control, including, but not limited to:. <U+2610>  decisions to forego or terminate a particular clinical trial;. <U+2610>  lack of available financing, budgetary limits or changing priorities;. <U+2610>  actions by regulatory authorities;. <U+2610>  changes in law;. <U+2610>  production problems resulting in shortages of the drug being tested;. <U+2610>  failure of the drug being tested to satisfy safety requirements or efficacy criteria;. <U+2610>  unexpected or undesired clinical results;. <U+2610>  insufficient investigator recruitment or patient enrollment in a trial;. <U+2610>  decisions to downsize product development portfolios;. <U+2610>  dissatisfaction with our performance, including the quality of data provided and our ability to meet agreed upon schedules;. <U+2610>  shift of business to another CRO or internal resources;. <U+2610>  product withdrawal following market launch; or. <U+2610>  shut down of our customers' manufacturing facilities.. As a result, contract terminations, delays and modifications are a regular part of our business. In the event of termination, our contracts often provide for payment to us of fees for services provided up to the point of termination and for close-out activities for winding down the clinical trial, and reimbursement of all non-cancellable expenses. These payments may not be sufficient for us to maintain our profit margins, and termination or non-renewal may result in lower resource utilization rates, including with respect to personnel who we are not able to place on another customer engagement. Historically, cancellations and delays have negatively impacted our operating results.. Clinical trials can be costly and for the year ended December 31, 2017, 64% and 25% of our net service revenue was derived from small biopharmaceutical companies and mid-sized biopharmaceutical companies, respectively, which may have limited access to capital. In addition, we provide services to our customers before they pay us for some of our services. There is a risk that we may initiate a clinical trial for a customer, and the customer subsequently becomes unwilling or unable to fund the completion of the trial. In such a situation, notwithstanding the customer's ability or willingness to pay for or otherwise facilitate the completion of the trial, we may be legally or ethically bound to complete or wind down the trial at our own expense.. Because the contracts included in our backlog are generally terminable without cause, we do not believe that our backlog as of any date is necessarily a meaningful predictor of future results. In addition, we may not realize the full benefits of our backlog of contractually committed services if our customers cancel, delay or reduce their commitments under our contracts with them. Thus, the loss or delay of a large contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could adversely affect our net service revenue and profitability. In addition, the terminability of our contracts puts increased pressure on our quality control efforts, since not only can our contracts be terminated by customers as a result of poor performance, but any such termination may also affect our ability to obtain future contracts from the customer involved and others.. Our backlog may not convert to net service revenue at our historical conversion rates.. Backlog represents anticipated future net service revenue from net new business awards that have commenced, but have not been completed. Reported backlog will fluctuate based on new business awards, changes in scope to. - 21 -. existing contracts, cancellations, revenue recognition on existing contracts and foreign exchange adjustments from non-U.S. dollar denominated backlog. Our backlog as of December 31, 2017 was approximately $524.4 million. Once work begins on a project, net service revenue is recognized over the duration of the project. Projects may be terminated or delayed by the customer or delayed by regulatory authorities for reasons beyond our control. To the extent projects are delayed, the timing of our net service revenue could be adversely affected. Moreover, in the event that a customer cancels a contract, we often would be entitled to receive payment for services provided up to the point of cancellation and for close-out activities for winding down the clinical trial, and reimbursement of all non-cancellable expenses. Typically, however, we have no contractual right to the full amount of the future net service revenue reflected in our backlog in the event of a contract cancellation or subsequent changes in scope that reduce the value of the contract. The duration of the projects included in our backlog, and the related net service revenue recognition, generally range from a few months to several years. Our backlog may not be indicative of our future net service revenue, and we may not realize all of the anticipated future net service revenue reflected in our backlog. A number of factors may affect the realization of our net service revenue from backlog, including:. <U+2610>  the size, complexity and duration of the projects;. <U+2610>  the cancellation or delay of projects; and. <U+2610>  changes in the scope of work during the course of a project.. Fluctuations in our reported backlog levels also result from the fact that we may receive a small number of relatively large projects in any given reporting period that may be included in our backlog. Because of these large projects, our backlog in that reporting period may reach levels that may not be sustained in subsequent reporting periods. Additionally, although an increase in backlog will generally result in an increase in net service revenue over time, an increase in backlog at a particular point in time does not necessarily correspond directly to an increase in net service revenue during any particular period, or at all. The extent to which contracts in backlog will result in net service revenue depends on many factors, including, but not limited to, delivery against project schedules, scope changes, contract terminations and the nature, duration and complexity of the contracts, and can vary significantly over time.. As we increasingly compete for and enter into large contracts that are more global in nature, there can be no assurance about the rate at which our backlog will convert into net service revenue. A decrease in this conversion rate would mean that the rate of net service revenue recognized on contracts may be slower than what we have experienced in the past, which could impact our net service revenue and results of operations on a quarterly and annual basis. The revenue recognition on larger, more global projects could be slower than on smaller, less global projects for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, an extended period of negotiation between the time the project is awarded to us and the actual execution of the contract, as well as an increased timeframe for obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals. Additionally, delayed projects will remain in backlog and will not generate revenue at the rate originally expected. Thus, the relationship of backlog to realized revenues is indirect and may vary significantly over time.. Additionally, if small and mid-sized biopharmaceutical companies become less able to access capital in the future, we may see a decrease in backlog conversion to net service revenue and net new business awards due to project delays or cancellations. These companies have contributed materially to our historical net service revenue. If they cannot commit the same or a greater level of capital to our services going forward, our results of operations may suffer.. Our operating results have historically fluctuated between fiscal quarters and years and may continue to fluctuate in the future, which may adversely affect the market price of our stock.. Our operating results have fluctuated in previous quarters and years and may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year and are influenced by a variety of factors, such as:. <U+2610>  timing of contract amendments for changes in scope that could affect the value of a contract and potentially impact the amount of net new business awards and net service revenue from quarter to quarter;. <U+2610>  commencement, completion, execution, postponement or termination of large contracts;. <U+2610>  contract terms for the billing and recognition of revenue milestones;. - 22 -. <U+2610>  progress of ongoing contracts and retention of customers;. <U+2610>  timing of and charges associated with completion of acquisitions and other events;. <U+2610>  changes in the mix of services delivered, both in terms of geography and type of services;. <U+2610>  customer disputes or other issues that may impact the revenue we are able to recognize or the collectability of our related accounts receivable; and. <U+2610>  exchange rate fluctuations.. Our operating results for any particular quarter or year are not necessarily a meaningful indicator of future results and fluctuations in our quarterly or yearly operating results could negatively affect the market price and liquidity of shares of our common stock.. Our operating margins could decrease due to increased pricing pressure or other pressures.. Historically, we have been able to generate the operating margins that we do because of our disciplined, full-service operating model. However, we operate in a highly competitive environment, and, if we experience increased levels of competitive pricing pressure, our operating margins may decrease. In addition, we may adapt our operating model to achieve greater levels of growth or in response to investor demands. Such changes could result in lower operating margins.. If we fail to perform our services in accordance with contractual requirements, government regulations and ethical considerations, we could be subject to significant costs or liability and our reputation could be adversely affected.. We contract with biopharmaceutical companies to perform a wide range of services to assist them in bringing new drugs to market. Our services include monitoring clinical trials, data and laboratory analysis, electronic data capture, patient recruitment and other related services. Such services are complex and subject to contractual requirements, government regulations, and ethical considerations. For example, we are subject to regulation by the FDA, and comparable foreign regulatory authorities relating to our activities in conducting pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. Before clinical trials begin in the United States, a drug is tested in pre-clinical trials that must comply with Good Laboratory Practice and other requirements. An applicant must file an IND, which must become effective before human clinical testing may begin. Further, an independent IRB, for each medical center proposing to participate in the clinical trial must review and approve the protocol for the clinical trial. Once initiated, clinical trials must be conducted pursuant to and in accordance with the applicable IND conditions, the requirements of the relevant IRBs, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and its implementing regulations, including GCP, and other requirements. We are also subject to regulation by the Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, which regulates the distribution, recordkeeping, handling, security, and disposal of controlled substances. If we fail to perform our services in accordance with these requirements, regulatory authorities may take action against us or our customers. Such actions may include injunctions or failure of such regulatory authority to grant marketing approval of our customers' products, imposition of clinical holds or delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, rejection of data collected in our clinical trials, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions, civil or criminal penalties or prosecutions, damages or fines. Customers may also bring claims against us for breach of our contractual obligations, and patients in the clinical trials and patients taking drugs approved on the basis of those trials may bring personal injury claims against us. Any such action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or reputation.. - 23 -. Such consequences could arise if, among other things, the following occur:. Improper performance of our services. The performance of clinical development services is complex and time-consuming. For example, we may make mistakes in conducting a clinical trial that could negatively impact or obviate the usefulness of results of the trial or cause the results of the trial to be reported improperly. If the trial results are compromised, we could be subject to significant costs or liability, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to perform our services and our reputation would be harmed. As examples:. <U+2610>  non-compliance generally could result in the termination of ongoing clinical trials or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities;. <U+2610>  non-compliance could compromise data from a particular trial, such as failure to verify that adequate informed consent was obtained from patients, which could require us to repeat the trial under the terms of our contract at no further cost to our customer, but at a potentially substantial cost to us; and. <U+2610>  breach of a contractual term could result in liability for damages or termination of the contract.. The services we provide in connection with large clinical trials can cost tens of millions of dollars, and while we endeavor to contractually limit our exposure to such risks, improper performance of our services could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, damage our reputation and result in the cancellation of current contracts by the affected customer or other current customers or failure to obtain future contracts from the affected customer or other current or potential customers.. Investigation of customers. From time to time, one or more of our customers are investigated by regulatory authorities or enforcement agencies with respect to regulatory compliance of their clinical trials, programs or the marketing and sale of their drugs. In these situations, we have often provided services to our customers with respect to the clinical trials, programs or activities being investigated, and we are called upon to respond to requests for information by the authorities and agencies. There is a risk that either our customers or regulatory authorities could claim that we performed our services improperly or that we are responsible for clinical trial or program compliance. If our customers or regulatory authorities make such claims against us, we could be subject to significant costs in defending our activities and potential damages, fines or penalties. In addition, negative publicity regarding regulatory compliance of our customers' clinical trials, programs or products could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation.. Insufficient customer funding to complete a clinical trial. As noted above, clinical trials can cost tens of millions of dollars. There is a risk that we may initiate a clinical trial for a customer, and then the customer becomes unwilling or unable to fund the completion of the trial. In such a situation, notwithstanding the customer's ability or willingness to pay for or otherwise facilitate the completion of the trial, we may be ethically bound to complete or wind down the trial at our own expense.. Interactive voice/web response service malfunction. We develop and maintain our own, and also use third-parties to run, interactive voice/web response systems. These systems automatically manage the randomization of patients in a given clinical trial to different treatment arms and regulate the supply of investigational drugs. An error in the design, programming or validation of these systems could lead to inappropriate assignment or dosing of patients which could give rise to patient safety issues, invalidation of the trial or liability claims against us. Furthermore, negative publicity associated with such a malfunction could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. Additionally, errors in randomization may require us to repeat the trial at no further cost to our customer, but at a substantial cost to us.. In addition to the above U.S. laws and regulations, we must comply with the laws of all countries where we do business, including laws governing clinical trials in the jurisdiction where the trials are performed. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could subject us to regulatory risk, liability and potential costs associated with redoing the trials, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results.. - 24 -. We bear financial risk if we underprice our fixed-fee contracts or overrun cost estimates, and our financial results can also be adversely affected by failure to receive approval for change orders or delays in documenting change orders.. The majority of our Phase I - IV contracts are fixed-fee contracts. We bear the financial risk if we initially underprice our contracts or otherwise overrun our cost estimates. In addition, contracts with our customers are subject to change orders, which we commonly experience and which occur when the scope of work we perform needs to be modified from that originally contemplated by our contract with the customer. Modifications can occur, for example, when there is a change in a key trial assumption or parameter, a significant change in timing or a change in staffing needs. Furthermore, we may be unable to successfully negotiate changes in scope or change orders on a timely basis or at all, which could require us to incur cost outlays ahead of the receipt of any additional revenue. In addition, under US GAAP, we cannot recognize additional revenue anticipated from change orders until appropriate documentation is received by us from the customer authorizing the change. However, if we incur additional expense in anticipation of receipt of that documentation, we must recognize the expense as incurred. Such underpricing, significant cost overruns or delay in documentation of change orders could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.. If we are unable to successfully execute our growth strategies, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected.. Our key growth strategies include: continued organic growth, continued maintenance of industry-leading margins (compared to our public competitors), increasing capture of the high-growth clinical development market, deepening existing and developing new relationships with our core customer segment, pursuing selective and complementary bolt-on acquisitions and increasing our capture of the large pharmaceutical company market. Though we will strive to meet these goals, we may not have or adequately build the competencies necessary to achieve our objectives. In addition, we may not receive market acceptance for our services and we may face increased competition. If we are unable to successfully continue our organic growth, continue to maintain our margins, increase our capture of the clinical development market, deepen existing and develop new relationships with our core customer segment, pursue complementary and non-transformative acquisitions or attract additional large pharmaceutical company customers, our future business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. If we lose the services of key personnel or are unable to recruit experienced personnel, our business could be adversely affected.. Our success substantially depends on the collective performance, contributions and expertise of our senior management team, including Dr. August J. Troendle, our Chief Executive Officer and founder, and other key personnel including qualified management, professional, scientific and technical operating staff. There is significant competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical services industry, particularly for those with higher educational degrees, such as a medical or nursing degree, a Ph.D., or an equivalent degree, and our industry generally tends to experience relatively high levels of employee turnover. If any of our key employees were to join a competitor or to form a competing company, some of our customers might choose to use the services of that competitor or new company instead of our own. Furthermore, customers or other companies seeking to develop in-house capabilities may hire some of our senior management or other key employees. The departure of any key contributor, the payment of increased compensation to attract and retain qualified personnel or our inability to continue to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel or replace any departed personnel in a timely fashion may impact our ability to grow our business and compete effectively in our industry and may negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or reputation.. Our business depends on the continued effectiveness and availability of our information systems, including the information systems we use to provide our services to our customers, such as ClinTrak, and failures of these systems may materially limit our operations.. Due to the global nature of our business and our reliance on information systems to provide our services, we intend to increase our use of web-enabled and other integrated information systems in delivering our services. We already provide access to such an information system, ClinTrak, to certain of our customers in connection with the services we provide to them. As the breadth and complexity of our information systems continue to grow, we will. - 25 -. increasingly be exposed to the risks inherent in the development, integration and ongoing operation of evolving information systems, including:. <U+2610>  disruption, impairment or failure of data centers, telecommunications facilities or other key infrastructure platforms;. <U+2610>  security breaches of, cyberattacks on and other failures or malfunctions in our critical application systems or their associated hardware; and. <U+2610>  excessive costs, excessive delays or other deficiencies in systems development and deployment.. The materialization of any of these risks may impede the processing of data, the delivery of databases and services and the day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption, loss or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary, confidential or other data. While we have disaster recovery plans in place, they might not adequately protect us in the event of a system failure. Despite any precautions we take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, information system security breaches and similar events at our facilities or at those of our third party provider that backs up our data centers could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and from our servers to our customers. Corruption or loss of data may result in the need to repeat a trial at no cost to the customer, but at significant cost to us, or result in the termination of a contract or damage to our reputation. Moreover, regulatory authorities may impose requirements on the use of electronic records and signatures for regulatory purposes. For example, FDA's regulations at 21 CFR Part 11 establish the criteria pursuant to which the FDA will consider electronic records and signatures to be trustworthy, reliable, and generally equivalent to paper records and handwritten signatures. Any failures to comply with those regulatory requirements could impact our customers' ability to rely on the data contained in those electronic records in our systems or result in the FDA's rejection of the data. Additionally, in order for our information systems to continue to be effective going forward, we periodically need to upgrade our technology systems and increase our capacity to keep pace with technological developments and our growth as a company. Significant delays in system enhancements or inadequate performance of new or upgraded systems once completed could damage our reputation and harm our business. Our operations also may suffer if we are unable to effectively manage the implementation of and adapt to new technology systems. Any such shortcoming may require us to make substantial further investments in our IT platform, which could adversely affect our financial results. Finally, long-term disruptions in the infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism, particularly involving cities in which we have offices, could adversely affect our business. As our business continues to expand globally, these types of risks may be further increased by instability in the geopolitical climate of certain regions, underdeveloped and less stable utilities and communications infrastructure and other local and regional factors. Although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage might not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur.. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential data, whether through system failure or breaches or employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for our customers, whether by our employees or third parties, including a cyberattack by computer programmers and hackers who may develop and deploy viruses, worms or other malicious software programs, could result in negative publicity, significant remediation costs, legal liability and damage to our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our liability insurance might not be sufficient in type or amount to adequately cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyberattacks and other related breaches.. If the security of confidential information used in connection with our services is breached or otherwise subject to unauthorized access, our reputation and business may be materially harmed.. Our services require us to collect, store, use, and transmit significant amounts of confidential information, including personally identifiable information, and other critical data. We employ a range of information technology solutions, controls, procedures, and processes designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our critical assets, including our data and information technology systems. While we engage in a number of measures aimed to protect against security breaches and to minimize problems if a data breach were to occur, our information technology systems and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, compromise, disruption, and shutdown due to attacks or breaches by hackers or due to other circumstances, such as error or malfeasance by employees or third. - 26 -. party service providers or technology malfunction. The occurrence of any of these events, as well as a failure to promptly remedy these events should they occur, could compromise our systems, and the information stored in our systems could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, stolen, or damaged. Any such circumstance could adversely affect our ability to attract and maintain customers, cause us to suffer negative publicity, and subject us to legal claims and liabilities or regulatory penalties. In addition, unauthorized parties might alter information in our databases, which would adversely affect both the reliability of that information and our ability to market and perform our services. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently, are constantly evolving and generally are difficult to recognize and react to effectively. We may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive or reactive measures. Several recent, highly publicized data security breaches at other companies have heightened consumer awareness of this issue and may embolden individuals or groups to target our systems or those of our strategic partners or enterprise customers.. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to manage our growth effectively.. We believe that sustained growth places a strain on operational, human and financial resources. To manage our growth, we must continue to improve our operating and administrative systems and to attract and retain qualified management, professional, scientific and technical operating personnel. We believe that maintaining and enhancing both our systems and personnel at reasonable cost are instrumental to our success. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enhance our current technology or obtain new technology that will enable our systems to keep pace with developments and the needs of our customers. The nature and pace of our growth introduces risks associated with quality control and customer dissatisfaction due to delays in performance or other problems. In addition, foreign operations involve the additional risks of assimilating differences in foreign business practices, hiring and retaining qualified personnel and overcoming language barriers. Failure to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our customer or therapeutic area concentration may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. Although we did not have any customer that represented 10% or more of our net service revenue during the year ended December 31, 2017, we derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of large customers. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we derived 32.2% and 5.3% of our net service revenue from our top 10 customers and our largest customer, respectively. In addition, approximately 45.5% and 6.3% of our backlog, as of December 31, 2017, was concentrated among our top 10 customers and our largest customer by backlog concentration, respectively. Moreover, 6.3% of our backlog, as of December 31, 2017, was concentrated with our largest customer by net service revenue. If any large customer decreases or terminates its relationship with us, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Also, consolidation in our actual or potential customer base results in increased competition for important market segments and fewer available customer accounts.. Additionally, conducting multiple clinical trials for different sponsors in a single therapeutic class, involving similar drugs, biologics or medical devices, may adversely affect our business if some or all of the trials are terminated because of new scientific information or regulatory decisions that affect the products as a class. Moreover, even if these trials are not terminated, they may compete with each other, thereby limiting our potential revenue going forward.. Our business is subject to international economic, political and other risks that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We have significant operations in foreign countries, including, but not limited to, countries in Europe, Latin America, Asia, the Middle East and Africa, that may require complex arrangements to deliver services on global contracts for our customers. For the year ended December 31, 2017, 7.6% of our revenue was denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, we are subject to heightened risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including the following:. <U+2610>  conducting a single trial across multiple countries is complex, and issues in one country, such as a failure to comply with local regulations or restrictions, may affect the progress of the trial in the other. - 27 -. countries, for example, by limiting the amount of data necessary for a trial to proceed, resulting in delays or potential cancellation of contracts, which in turn may result in loss of revenue;. <U+2610>  the United States or other countries could enact legislation or impose regulations or other restrictions, including unfavorable labor regulations or tax policies, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business in or expatriate profits from those countries;. <U+2610>  tax rates in certain foreign countries may exceed those in the United States and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions, including restrictions on repatriation;. <U+2610>  certain foreign countries are expanding or may expand their regulatory framework with respect to patient informed consent, protection and compensation in clinical trials, and privacy, which could delay or inhibit our ability to conduct trials in such jurisdictions or which could materially increase the risks associated with performing trials in such jurisdictions;. <U+2610>  certain foreign countries are expanding or may expand their banking regulations that govern international currency transactions, particularly cross-border transfers, which may inhibit our ability to transfer funds into or within a jurisdiction, impeding our ability to pay our principal investigators, vendors and employees, thereby impacting our ability to conduct trials in such jurisdictions;. <U+2610>  the regulatory or judicial authorities of foreign countries may not enforce legal rights and recognize business procedures in a manner to which we are accustomed or would reasonably expect;. <U+2610>  we may have difficulty complying with a variety of laws and regulations in foreign countries, some of which may conflict with laws in the United States;. <U+2610>  potential violations of existing or newly adopted local laws or anti-bribery laws, such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and the UK Bribery Act of 2010, may cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or reputation;. <U+2610>  changes in political and economic conditions, including inflation, may lead to changes in the business environment in which we operate, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates;. <U+2610>  foreign governments may enact currency exchange controls that may limit the ability to fund our operations or significantly increase the cost of maintaining operations;. <U+2610>  customers in foreign jurisdictions may have longer payment cycles, and it may be more difficult to collect receivables in foreign jurisdictions; and. <U+2610>  natural disasters, pandemics or international conflict, including terrorist acts, could interrupt our services, endanger our personnel or cause project delays or loss of trial materials or results.. These risks and uncertainties could negatively impact our ability to, among other things, perform large, global projects for our customers. Furthermore, our ability to deal with these issues could be affected by applicable U.S. laws and the need to protect our assets. In addition, we may be more susceptible to these risks as we enter and continue to target growth in emerging countries and regions, including Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America, which may be subject to a relatively higher risk of political instability, economic volatility, crime, corruption and social and ethnic unrest, all of which are exacerbated in many cases by a lack of an independent and experienced judiciary and uncertainties in how local law is applied and enforced. The materialization of any such risks could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or reputation.. Due to the global nature of our business, we may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and various other anti-corruption laws, and any allegation or determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are required to comply with the FCPA, UK Bribery Act of 2010 and other U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws, which prohibit companies from engaging in bribery including corruptly or improperly offering, promising, or providing money or anything else of value to foreign officials and certain other recipients. In addition, the FCPA imposes certain books, records and accounting control obligations on public companies and other issuers. We operate in parts of the world in which corruption can be common and compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Our global operations face the risk of unauthorized payments or offers. - 28 -. being made by employees, consultants, sales agents and other business partners outside of our control or without our authorization. It is our policy to implement safeguards (including mandatory training) to prohibit these practices by our employees and business partners with respect to our operations. However, irrespective of these safeguards, or as a result of monitoring compliance with such safeguards, it is possible that we or certain other parties may discover or receive information at some point that certain employees, consultants, sales agents, or other business partners may have engaged in corrupt conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA or other foreign anti-corruption laws may result in restatements of, or irregularities in, our financial statements as well as severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In some cases, companies that violate the FCPA may be debarred by the U.S. government and/or lose their U.S. export privileges. Changes in anti-corruption laws or enforcement priorities could also result in increased compliance requirements and related costs which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the U.S. or other governments may seek to hold us liable for FCPA violations or violations of other anti-corruption laws committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquired or will acquire.. In the past, we have had net losses and we may report net losses in the future, which could negatively impact our ability to achieve or sustain profitability.. In the past, we have had net losses and we cannot assure you that we will achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, our net income (loss) was $39.1 million, $13.4 million and $(8.7) million, respectively. If we cannot maintain profitability, the value of our stock price may be impacted.. Our effective income tax rate may fluctuate, which may adversely affect our operations, earnings and earnings per share.. Our effective income tax rate is influenced by our projected profitability in the various taxing jurisdictions in which we operate. The global nature of our business increases our tax risks. In addition, for various reasons, revenue authorities in many of the jurisdictions in which we operate are known to have become more active in their tax collection activities. Changes in the distribution of profits and losses among taxing jurisdictions may have a significant impact on our effective income tax rate, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our net income and earnings per share. The application of tax laws in various taxing jurisdictions, including the United States, is subject to interpretation, and tax authorities in various jurisdictions may have diverging and sometimes conflicting interpretations of the application of tax laws. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings, in the United States or other tax jurisdictions in which we operate, could materially impact our effective tax rate.. Factors that may affect our effective income tax rate include, but are not limited to:. <U+2610>  the requirement to exclude from our quarterly worldwide effective income tax calculations losses in jurisdictions where no income tax benefit can be recognized;. <U+2610>  actual and projected full year pre-tax income, including differences between actual and anticipated income before taxes in various jurisdictions;. <U+2610>  changes in tax laws, or in the interpretation or application of tax laws, in various taxing jurisdictions;. <U+2610>  audits or other challenges by taxing authorities;. <U+2610>  the establishment of valuation allowances against a portion or all of certain deferred income tax assets if we determined that it is more likely than not that future income tax benefits will not be realized; and. <U+2610>  changes in the relative mix and size of clinical trials and staffing levels in various tax jurisdictions.. These changes may cause fluctuations in our effective income tax rate that could adversely affect our results of operations and cause fluctuations in our earnings and earnings per share.. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" (TCJA) that significantly reforms the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The TCJA, among other things, includes changes to U.S.. - 29 -. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, and puts into effect the migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a territorial system. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. The impact of this tax reform on holders of our common stock is uncertain and could be adverse. This Annual Report on Form 10-K does not discuss any such tax legislation or the manner in which it might affect purchasers of our common stock. We urge our stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in our common stock.. Governmental authorities may question our intercompany transfer pricing policies or change their laws in a manner that could increase our effective tax rate or otherwise harm our business.. As a U.S. company doing business in international markets through subsidiaries, we are subject to foreign tax and intercompany pricing laws, including those relating to the flow of funds between the parent and subsidiaries. Tax authorities in the United States and in foreign markets closely monitor our corporate structure and how we account for intercompany fund transfers. If tax authorities challenge our corporate structure, transfer pricing mechanisms or intercompany transfers, our operations may be negatively impacted and our effective tax rate may increase. Tax rates vary from country to country and if regulators determine that our profits in one jurisdiction should be increased, we might not be able to fully utilize all foreign tax credits that are generated, which would increase our effective tax rate. Additionally, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, has issued certain proposed guidelines regarding base erosion and profit sharing. Once these guidelines are formally adopted by the OECD, it is possible that separate taxing jurisdictions may also adopt some form of these guidelines. In such case, we may need to change our approach to intercompany transfer pricing in order to maintain compliance under the new rules. Our effective tax rate may increase or decrease depending on the current location of global operations at the time of the change. Finally, we might not always be in compliance with all applicable customs, exchange control, Value Added Tax and transfer pricing laws despite our efforts to be aware of and to comply with such laws. In such case, we may need to adjust our operating procedures and our business could be adversely affected.. If we are unable to recruit suitable investigators and enroll patients for our customers' clinical trials, our clinical development business may suffer.. The recruitment of investigators and patients for clinical trials is essential to our business. Investigators are typically located at hospitals, clinics or other sites and supervise the administration of the investigational drug, biologic or device to patients during the course of a clinical trial. Patients typically include people from the communities in which the clinical trials are conducted. Our clinical development business could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract suitable and willing investigators or patients for clinical trials on a consistent basis. For example, if we are unable to engage investigators to conduct clinical trials as planned or enroll sufficient patients in clinical trials, we may need to expend additional funds to obtain access to resources or else be compelled to delay or modify the clinical trial plans, which may result in additional costs to us. These considerations might result in our being unable to successfully achieve our projected development timelines, or potentially even lead to the termination of ongoing clinical trials or development of a product.. Our clinical development services could subject us to potential liability that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Our business involves the testing of new drugs, biologics and medical devices on patients in clinical trials. Our involvement in the clinical trial and development process creates a risk of liability for personal injury to or death of patients, particularly for those with life-threatening illnesses, resulting from adverse reactions to the products administered during testing or after regulatory approval. For example, we may be sued in the future by individuals alleging personal injury due to their participation in clinical trials and seeking damages from us under a variety of legal theories. If we are required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with any personal injury claim that is outside the scope of indemnification agreements we have with our customers, if any indemnification agreement is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or reputation could be materially and adversely affected. We might also not be able to obtain adequate insurance or indemnification for these types of risks at reasonable rates in the future.. - 30 -. We also contract with institutions and physicians to serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials. Investigators are typically located at hospitals, clinics or other sites and supervise the administration of the investigational products to patients during the course of a clinical trial. If the investigators or study staff commit errors or make omissions during a clinical trial that result in harm to trial patients, or patients suffer harm with a delayed onset after a clinical trial is completed and the product has obtained regulatory approval, claims for personal injury or products liability damages may result. Additionally, if the investigators engage in fraudulent or negligent behavior, trial data may be compromised, which may require us to repeat the clinical trial or subject us to liability or regulatory action. We do not believe we are legally responsible for the medical care rendered by such third party investigators, and we would vigorously defend any claims brought against us. However, it is possible we could be found liable for claims with respect to the actions of third party investigators and the institutions at which clinical trials may be conducted.. Some of our services involve direct interaction with clinical trial patients and operation of a Phase I clinical facility, which could create potential liability that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We operate a facility where Phase I clinical trials are conducted, which ordinarily involve testing an investigational drug, biologic or medical device on a limited number of individuals to evaluate its safety, determine a safe dosage range and identify side effects. Failure to operate such a facility and clinical trials in accordance with FDA, DEA and other applicable regulations could result in disruptions to our operations. Additionally, we face risks associated with adverse events resulting from the administration of such drugs, biologics and medical devices and the professional malpractice of medical care providers. We also directly employ nurses and other trained employees who assist in implementing the testing involved in our clinical trials, such as drawing blood from subjects. Any professional malpractice or negligence by such investigators, nurses or other employees could potentially result in liability to us in the event of personal injury to or death of a subject in clinical trials. This liability, particularly if it were to exceed the limits of any indemnification agreements and insurance coverage we may have, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation.. Our insurance may not cover all of our indemnification obligations and other liabilities associated with our operations.. We maintain insurance designed to provide coverage for ordinary risks associated with our operations and our ordinary indemnification obligations, which we believe to be customary for our industry. The coverage provided by such insurance may not be adequate for all claims we may make or may be contested by our insurance carriers. If our insurance is not adequate or available to pay liabilities associated with our operations, or if we are unable to purchase adequate insurance at reasonable rates in the future, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be materially adversely impacted.. Exchange rate fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately 7.6% of our revenue was denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, and 28.6% of our operational costs, including, but not limited to, salaries, wages and other employee benefits were denominated in foreign currencies. Of these exposures, 89.0% of our revenue denominated in foreign currencies, and 49.6% of our operational costs denominated in foreign currencies, were Euro denominated. Because a large portion of our net service revenue and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and our financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. The revenue and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies and translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the translation of foreign results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated results.. We are subject to foreign currency transaction risk for fluctuations in exchange rates during the period of time between the consummation and cash settlement of a transaction. We earn revenue from our service contracts over a period of several months and, in some cases, over several years. Accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations during such periods may affect our profitability with respect to such contracts.. - 31 -. Additionally, the majority of our global contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars or Euros, while the currency used to fund our operating costs in foreign countries is denominated in various different currencies. Fluctuations in the exchange rates of the currencies we use to contract with our customers and the currencies in which we incur cost to complete those contracts can have a significant impact on our results of operations.. We may limit these risks through exchange rate fluctuation provisions stated in our service contracts. We have not, however, mitigated all of our foreign currency transaction risk, and we may experience fluctuations in financial results from our operations outside the United States and foreign currency transaction risk associated with our service contracts.. Our relationships with existing or potential customers who are in competition with each other may adversely impact the degree to which other customers or potential customers use our services, which may adversely affect our results of operations.. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, with companies each seeking to persuade payors, providers and patients that their drug therapies are more cost-effective than competing therapies marketed or being developed by competing firms. In addition to the adverse competitive interests that biopharmaceutical companies have with each other, these companies also have adverse interests with respect to drug selection, coverage and reimbursement with other participants in the healthcare industry, including payors and providers. Biopharmaceutical companies also compete to be first to the market with new drug therapies. We regularly provide services to biopharmaceutical companies who compete with each other, and we sometimes provide services to such customers regarding competing drugs in development. Our existing or future relationships with our biopharmaceutical customers may deter other biopharmaceutical customers from using our services or, in certain instances, may result in our customers seeking to place limits on our ability to serve their competitors and other industry participants. In addition, our further expansion into the broader healthcare market may adversely impact our relationships with biopharmaceutical customers, and such customers may elect not to use our services, reduce the scope of services that we provide to them or seek to place restrictions on our ability to serve customers in the broader healthcare market with interests that are adverse to theirs. Any loss of customers or reductions in the level of revenues from a customer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. If we are unable to successfully integrate potential future acquisitions, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.. We anticipate that a portion of our future growth may come from targeted acquisitions to expand our current capabilities and service offerings. The success of any acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to effectively integrate acquired personnel, operations, products and technologies into our business and to retain the key personnel and customers of our acquired businesses. In addition, we may be unable to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or obtain any necessary financing on commercially acceptable terms. We may also spend time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition targets but not complete the transaction. Any acquisition could involve other risks, including, among others, the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, difficulties and expenses in connection with integrating the acquired companies and achieving the expected benefits, issuances of potentially dilutive securities or interest-bearing debt, loss of key employees of the acquired companies, transaction expenses, diversion of management's attention from other business concerns and, with respect to the acquisition of international companies, the inability to overcome differences in international business practices, language and customs. Our failure to successfully integrate potential future acquisitions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We have a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet, and our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our goodwill and intangible assets.. Our balance sheet reflects goodwill and intangibles assets of $661.0 million and $98.7 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2017. Collectively, goodwill and intangibles assets represented 79.9% of our total assets as of December 31, 2017. Our goodwill was recorded in connection with Cinven's acquisition of us in 2014. In accordance with US GAAP, goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are not amortized, but are subject to a periodic impairment evaluation. We assess the realizability of our indefinite lived intangible assets and goodwill annually and conduct an interim evaluation whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as operating losses. - 32 -. or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset, indicate that these assets may be impaired. In addition, we review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. If indicators of impairment are present, we evaluate the carrying value in relation to estimates of future discounted cash flows. Our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of our businesses. The carrying amount of the goodwill could be impaired if there is a downturn in our business or our industry or other factors that affect the fair value of our business, in which case a charge to earnings would become necessary. If we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. For example, in conjunction with the 2015 fourth quarter annual assessment of goodwill, we determined that goodwill related to our Clinics reporting unit was impaired and we recognized an impairment charge of $9.3 million, which represented 100% of the goodwill that had been allocated to this reporting unit. Such impairment charges in the future could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards or certain other tax attributes may be limited.. Under Sections 382 and 383 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change\" (generally defined as a greater than 50 percentage point change, by value, in the aggregate stock ownership of certain shareholders over a three-year period), the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards to offset its future taxable income and other pre-change tax attributes may be limited. We have experienced at least one ownership change in the past. We may experience additional ownership changes in the future. In addition, future changes in our stock ownership (including future sales by Cinven) could result in additional ownership changes. Any such ownership changes could limit our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset any future taxable income and other tax attributes. State and foreign tax laws may also impose limitations on our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes.. Our operations involve the use and disposal of hazardous substances and waste which can give rise to liability that could adversely impact our financial condition.. We conduct activities that have involved, and may continue to involve, the controlled use of hazardous materials and the creation of hazardous substances, including medical waste and other highly regulated substances. As a result, our operations pose the risk of accidental contamination or injury caused by the release of these materials and/or the creation of hazardous substances, including medical waste and other highly regulated substances. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for damages and cleanup costs which, to the extent not covered by existing insurance or indemnification, could harm our business. In addition, other adverse effects could result from such liability, including reputational damage resulting in the loss of additional business from certain customers.. The failure of third parties to provide us critical support services could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or reputation.. We depend on third parties for support services vital to our business. Such support services include, but are not limited to, laboratory services, third-party transportation and travel providers, technology providers, freight forwarders and customs brokers, drug depots and distribution centers, suppliers or contract manufacturers of drugs for patients participating in clinical trials and providers of licensing agreements, maintenance contracts or other services. In addition, we also rely on third-party CROs and other contract clinical personnel for clinical services either in regions where we have limited resources, or in cases where demand cannot be met by our internal staff. The failure of any of these third parties to adequately provide us critical support services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or reputation.. We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and these rights are important to our success.. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to develop, use and protect our proprietary methodologies, analytics, systems, technologies and other intellectual property. Existing laws of the various countries in which we provide services or solutions offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights, and the protection in some countries may be very limited. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure,. - 33 -. invention assignment and other contractual arrangements, and copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, to protect our intellectual property rights. These laws are subject to change at any time and certain agreements may not be fully enforceable, which could further restrict our ability to protect our innovations. Our intellectual property rights may not prevent competitors from independently developing services similar to or duplicative of ours. Further, the steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property by competitors, former employees or other third parties, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Enforcing our rights might also require considerable time, money and oversight, and we may not be successful in enforcing our rights.. The results of the United Kingdom's referendum on withdrawal from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business.. In June 2016, a majority of voters in the United Kingdom elected to withdraw from the European Union, or the EU, in a national referendum. The referendum was advisory, and the terms of any withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last at least two years after the government of the United Kingdom formally initiates a withdrawal process. Nevertheless, the referendum has created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU, including with respect to the laws and regulations that will apply as the United Kingdom determines which EU laws to replace or replicate in the event of a withdrawal. The referendum has also given rise to calls for the governments of other EU member states to consider withdrawal. These developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. Any of these factors could depress economic activity and restrict our access to capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and reduce the price of our common stock.. Potential future investments in our customers' businesses or products could have a negative impact on our financial results.. We have in the past and may in the future enter into arrangements with our customers or other drug, biologic or medical device companies in which we take on payment risk by making strategic investments in our customers or other drug companies, providing flexible payment terms or fee financing to customers or other companies, or entering into other risk sharing arrangements on trial execution. Our financial results would be adversely affected if the amount realized from any such risk sharing arrangement was less than the value of our services under the contract related to such arrangement.. Our operations might be affected by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event.. We depend on our customers, investigators, laboratories and other facilities for the continued operation of our business. Although we have contingency plans in place for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events, including terrorist attacks, pandemic flu, hurricanes, floods and ice and snow storms, could nevertheless disrupt our operations or those of our customers, investigators and collaboration partners, which could also affect us. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies and typically have provisions in our contracts that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies or for which we do not have coverage. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting us or our customers, investigators or collaboration partners could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial performance.. Risks Relating to Our Industry. Outsourcing trends in the biopharmaceutical industry and changes in aggregate expenditures and R&D budgets could adversely affect our operating results and growth rate.. Our revenues depend on the level of R&D expenditures, size of the drug development pipelines and outsourcing trends of the biopharmaceutical industry, including the amount of such R&D expenditures that is outsourced and subject to competitive bidding among CROs. Accordingly, economic factors and industry trends that affect. - 34 -. biopharmaceutical companies affect our business. For example, if biopharmaceutical companies become less able to access capital in the future, they may commit less capital to our services going forward. Also, biopharmaceutical companies continue to seek long-term strategic collaborations with global CROs with favorable pricing terms. Many of our competitors seek out these collaborations, while we generally do not. If our competitors can successfully enter into these collaborations, it may reduce the share of the biopharmaceutical outsourcing business that we might otherwise be positioned to capture.. In addition, if the biopharmaceutical industry reduces its outsourcing of clinical trials or such outsourcing fails to grow at projected or expected rates, or at all, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We may also be negatively impacted by consolidation and other factors in the biopharmaceutical industry, which may slow decision making by our customers, result in the delay or cancellation of existing projects, cause reductions in overall R&D expenditures or lead to increased pricing pressures. Further, in the event that one of our customers combines with a company that is using the services of one of our competitors, the combined company could decide to use the services of that competitor or another provider. All of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.. We face intense competition in many areas of our business and, if we do not compete effectively, our business may be harmed.. The CRO industry is highly competitive. We often compete for business with other CROs as well as internal development departments at some of our customers, some of which could be considered large CROs in their own right. We also compete with universities and teaching hospitals. Some of these competitors have greater financial resources and a wider range of service offerings over a greater geographic area than we do. If we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. The industry is highly fragmented, with numerous smaller specialized companies and a handful of full-service companies with global capabilities similar to ours. Increased competition has led to price and other forms of competition, such as acceptance of less favorable contract terms, which could adversely affect our operating results. In recent years, our industry has experienced consolidation. This trend is likely to produce more competition from the resulting larger companies. Further, certain of our key competitors are private and, therefore, they do not contend with the cost pressures of being a public company. We compete with both large CROs and mid-sized CROs, and have increasingly faced more competition from larger CROs. Our ability to continue to grow and perform effectively will directly impact our success against our competitors. In addition, there are few barriers to entry for smaller specialized companies considering entering the industry. Because of their size and focus, small CROs might compete effectively against larger companies such as us, especially in lower cost geographic areas, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We may be affected by healthcare reform and potential additional regulatory reforms, which may adversely impact the biopharmaceutical industry or otherwise reduce the need for our services or negatively impact our profitability.. Numerous government bodies are considering or have adopted various healthcare reforms and may undertake, or are in the process of undertaking, efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with healthcare providers and biopharmaceutical companies, including many of our customers. By way of example, in March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or collectively, the Affordable Care Act, was signed into law, which, among other things, expanded, over time, health insurance coverage, imposed health industry cost containment measures, enhanced remedies against healthcare fraud and abuse, added new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, imposed new taxes and fees on pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, added new requirements for certain applicable drug and device manufacturers to disclose payments to physicians, including principal investigators, and imposed additional health policy reforms, any of which may significantly impact the biopharmaceutical industry. We are uncertain as to the full effects of these reforms on our business and are unable to predict what legislative proposals, if any, will be adopted in the future. If regulatory cost containment efforts limit the profitability of new drugs, our customers may reduce their R&D expenditures, which could reduce the business they outsource to us. Similarly, if regulatory requirements for product testing are relaxed or harmonized across jurisdictions, or simplified drug approval procedures are adopted, the demand for our services could decrease. The result of the recent presidential election in the United States has added to the uncertainty regarding healthcare policies and regulations as the new presidential administration and U.S. Congress have called for the repeal of the Affordable Care Act.. - 35 -. Government bodies may also adopt healthcare legislation or regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations. For example, product safety concerns and recommendations by the Drug Safety Oversight Board could change the regulatory environment for drug products, and new or heightened regulatory requirements may increase our expenses or limit our ability to offer some of our services. Additionally, new or heightened regulatory requirements may have a negative impact on the ability of our customers to conduct industry sponsored clinical trials, which could reduce the need for our services. These developments and the lack of clarity regarding future healthcare policies and regulations have created significant uncertainty that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations.. Consolidation in the biopharmaceutical industry could lead to a reduction in our revenues.. The biopharmaceutical and CRO industries are currently undergoing a period of increased merger activity. Several large biopharmaceutical companies have recently completed mergers and acquisitions that will consolidate the outsourcing trends and R&D expenditures into fewer companies, and many larger and medium sized biopharmaceutical companies have been acquiring smaller biopharmaceutical companies. As a result of this and future consolidations, our customer diversity may decrease and our business may be adversely affected.. If we fail to comply with federal, state and foreign healthcare laws, including fraud and abuse laws, we could face substantial penalties and our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected.. Even though we do not order healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third party payors, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse are applicable to our business. We could be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse laws of both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of available statutory and regulatory exceptions, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. If we or our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could materially adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results.. Laws and regulations regarding the protection of personal data could result in increased risks of liability or increased cost to us or could limit our service offerings.. The confidentiality, collection, use and disclosure of personal data, including clinical trial patient-specific information, are subject to governmental regulation generally in the country in which the personal data was collected or used. For example, U.S. federal regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 and their implementing regulations, including the Privacy and Security Rules, or collectively, HIPAA, generally require individuals' written authorization, in addition to any required informed consent, before protected health information may be used for research and such regulations specify standards for de-identifications and for limited data sets. We may also be subject to applicable state privacy and security laws and regulations in states in which we operate. Two of our subsidiaries, Medpace Clinical Pharmacology, LLC and C-MARC, LLC, are covered entities under HIPAA. Further, because of amendments to the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules that were promulgated on January 25, 2013, known as the Omnibus Final Rule, service providers to covered entities under HIPAA, known as business associates, are now directly subject to HIPAA. There are some instances where we may be a HIPAA \"business associate\" of a \"covered entity,\" meaning that we may be directly liable for any breaches of protected health information and other HIPAA violations. We are also liable contractually under any business associate agreements we have signed with covered entities. If we are determined to be a business associate, we would be subject to HIPAA's enforcement scheme, which, as amended, can result in up to $1.5 million in annual civil penalties for each HIPAA violation. A single breach incident can result in multiple violations of the HIPAA standards, meaning that penalties could be in excess of $1.5 million. In addition, the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Improvement Act of 2015 required all federal agencies to adjust their civil monetary penalties to inflation, no later than August 1, 2016. As a result, the minimum annual penalties for each HIPPA violation which occurs later than February 17, 2009 is now $1.7 million.. - 36 -. HIPAA also authorizes state attorneys general to file suit on behalf of their residents for violations. Courts are able to award damages, costs and attorneys' fees related to violations of HIPAA in such cases. While HIPAA does not create a private right of action allowing individuals to file suit against us in civil court for violations of HIPAA, its standards have been used as the basis for duty of care cases in state civil suits such as those for negligence or recklessness in the misuse or breach of protected health information. In addition, HIPAA mandates that the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services conduct periodic compliance audits of HIPAA covered entities and their business associates for compliance with the HIPAA privacy and security standards, and Phase two of these audits, focusing on business associates has begun.. In the EU, personal data includes any information that relates to an identified or identifiable natural person with health information carrying additional obligations, including obtaining the explicit consent from the individual for collection, use or disclosure of the information. In addition, we are subject to EU rules with respect to export of such data out of the EU. Such data export rules are constantly changing, for example, following a decision of the European Court of Justice in October 2015, transferring personal data to U.S. companies like us that had certified as a member of the EU-U.S. Safe Harbor Scheme was declared invalid and the other methods to permit transfer are now under review. In July 2016, the European Commission approved the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield, which replaces the U.S. Safe Harbor Scheme. The United States, the EU and its member states, and other countries where we have operations, such as Singapore and Russia, continue to issue new privacy and data protection rules and regulations that relate to personal data and health information. Failure to comply with certain certification/registration and annual re-certification/registration provisions associated with these data protection and privacy regulations and rules in various jurisdictions, or to resolve any serious privacy or security complaints, could subject us to regulatory sanctions, criminal prosecution or civil liability. Federal, state and foreign governments may propose or have adopted additional legislation governing the collection, possession, use or dissemination of personal data, such as personal health information, and personal financial data as well as security breach notification rules for loss or theft of such data. Additional legislation or regulation of this type might, among other things, require us to implement new security measures and processes or bring within the legislation or regulation de-identified health or other personal data, each of which may require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our services. Additionally, if we violate applicable laws, regulations or duties relating to the use, privacy or security of personal data, we could be subject to civil liability or criminal prosecution, be forced to alter our business practices and suffer reputational harm. The laws in the EU are under reform and from early 2018 onwards, we will be subject to the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, because we are processing data in the EU. The GDPR increases the deadline for data breach notifications, imposes additional obligations when we process personal data on behalf of our customers, including in relation to security measures, and increases administrative burdens on companies processing personal data. If we do not comply with our obligations under the GDPR we could be exposed to significant fines of up to 20 million EUR or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher.. The biopharmaceutical industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and we might be involved in costly intellectual property lawsuits.. The biopharmaceutical industry has a history of intellectual property litigation, and these lawsuits will likely continue in the future. Accordingly, even without wrongdoing on our part, we may face patent infringement suits by companies that have patents for similar business processes or other suits alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual property could be expensive, take significant time and divert management's attention from other business concerns, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. If we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial damages, and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license to use technology on unfavorable terms. Further, our customers could be similarly exposed to intellectual property suits and the resulting economic and operational strain defending such claims could negatively impact such customers' ability to fund or continue ongoing clinical trials on which we are working.. - 37 -. Actions by regulatory authorities or customers to limit the scope of or withdraw an approved drug, biologic or medical device from the market could result in a loss of revenue.. Government regulators have the authority, after approving a drug, biologic or medical device, to limit its indication for use by requiring additional labeled warnings or to withdraw the product's approval for its approved indication based on safety or other concerns. Similarly, customers may act to voluntarily limit the availability of approved products or withdraw them from the market after we begin our work. If we are providing services to customers for products that are limited in availability or withdrawn, we may be required to narrow the scope of or terminate our services with respect to such products, which would prevent us from earning the full amount of net service revenue anticipated under the related service contracts.. If we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes, our services may become less competitive or obsolete.. The biopharmaceutical industry generally, and drug development and clinical research more specifically, are subject to rapid technological changes. Our current competitors or other businesses might develop technologies or services that are more effective or commercially attractive than, or render obsolete, our current or future technologies and services. If our competitors introduce superior technologies or services and if we cannot make enhancements to remain competitive, our competitive position would be harmed. If we are unable to compete successfully, we may lose customers or be unable to attract new customers, which could lead to a decrease in our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.. Circumstances beyond our control could cause the CRO industry to suffer reputational or other harm that could result in an industry-wide reduction in demand for CRO services, which could harm our business.. Demand for our services may be affected by perceptions of our customers regarding the CRO industry as a whole. For example, other CROs could engage in conduct that could render our customers less willing to do business with us or any CRO. Likewise, a widely reported injury to clinical trial participants could result in negative perceptions of clinical trial activity, thereby adversely impacting our industry. One or more CROs could engage in or fail to detect malfeasance, such as inadequately monitoring sites, producing inaccurate databases or analysis, falsifying patient records, and performing incomplete lab work, or take other actions that would reduce the confidence of our customers in the CRO industry. As a result, the willingness of biopharmaceutical companies to outsource R&D services to CROs could diminish and our business could thus be harmed materially by events outside our control.. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities.. Our Senior Secured Credit Facilities (as defined below) consist of a $165.0 million Senior Secured Term Loan Facility maturing in December 2021, or the Senior Secured Term Loan Facility, and a $150.0 million Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility maturing in December 2021, or the Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility, and, together with the Senior Secured Term Loan Facility, the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. At December 31, 2017, we had $152.6 million of outstanding indebtedness under our Senior Secured Term Loan Facility and $70.0 million of borrowings outstanding under our Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility. In addition, we had up to $80.0 million of additional borrowing capacity available under our Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and thus make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our Senior Secured Credit Facilities. If our cash flow is not sufficient to service our debt and adequately fund our business, we may be required to seek further additional financing or refinancing or dispose of assets. We might not be able to influence any of these alternatives on satisfactory terms or at all. Our indebtedness could also:. <U+2610>  increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic, industry or competitive developments;. <U+2610>  require us to dedicate a more substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, investments, acquisitions, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes;. - 38 -. <U+2610>  limit our ability to make required payments under our existing contractual commitments, including our existing long-term indebtedness;. <U+2610>  limit our ability to fund a change of control offer;. <U+2610>  require us to sell certain assets;. <U+2610>  restrict us from making strategic investments, including acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures;. <U+2610>  limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in market conditions, our business and the industry in which we operate;. <U+2610>  place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;. <U+2610>  cause us to incur substantial fees from time to time in connection with debt amendments or refinancings;. <U+2610>  increase our exposure to rising interest rates because our borrowings are at variable interest rates; and. <U+2610>  limit our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow on terms that are satisfactory to us.. For more information about our indebtedness, see \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Indebtedness\" of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 8 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may incur more debt and undertake additional obligations. Incurring such debt or undertaking such additional obligations could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition.. Although the credit agreement governing the Senior Secured Credit Facilities contains restrictions on our incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could increase. To the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks to our financial condition would increase.. While the credit agreement governing the Senior Secured Credit Facilities also contains restrictions on our ability to make loans and investments, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the investments incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial.. Covenant restrictions under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities may limit our ability to operate our business.. The agreement governing our Senior Secured Credit Facilities contains covenants that may restrict our ability to, among other things:. <U+2610>  create, incur or assume any lien upon any of our property, assets or revenue;. <U+2610>  make or hold certain investments;. <U+2610>  incur or assume any indebtedness;. <U+2610>  merge, dissolve, liquidate or consolidate with or into another person;. <U+2610>  make certain dispositions of property or other assets (including sale leaseback transactions);. <U+2610>  declare or make certain restricted payments, including dividends;. <U+2610>  enter into certain transactions with affiliates;. <U+2610>  prepay subordinated debt;. <U+2610>  enter into burdensome agreements;. <U+2610>  engage in any material line of business substantially different from our currently conducted business; or. <U+2610>  change our fiscal year.. - 39 -. In addition, we are required to report compliance with two financial covenants that are tested at the end of each fiscal quarter. We are required to maintain a ratio of consolidated funded indebtedness minus unrestricted cash and cash equivalents (in the aggregate not to exceed $50 million and to include not more than $25 million of foreign unrestricted cash and cash equivalents) to consolidated EBITDA for the most recent four fiscal quarter period not to exceed 4.00:1.00; provided that we shall be permitted to increase the ratio to 4.50:1.00 in connection with any permitted acquisition or any other acquisition consented to by the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders (each as defined in the Senior Secured Credit Agreement) with total cash consideration in excess of $25 million.  Such increase shall be applicable for the fiscal quarter in which such acquisition is consummated and the three consecutive test periods thereafter.  We are also required to maintain a ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense, in each case for the most recent four fiscal quarter period, of not less than 3.00:1.00. As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all covenants under our Senior Secured Credit Agreement.. Although the covenants in our Senior Secured Credit Facilities are subject to various exceptions, we cannot assure you that these covenants will not adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other activities that may be in our best interest. In addition, in certain circumstances, our long-term debt requires us to maintain a specified financial ratio and satisfy certain financial condition tests, which may require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities. If an event of default under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities occurs, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. In such case, we might not have sufficient funds to repay all the outstanding amounts. In addition, our Senior Secured Credit Facilities are secured by first priority security interests on substantially all of our assets, including the capital stock of certain of our subsidiaries. If an event of default under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities occurs, the lenders thereunder could exercise their rights under the related security documents. Any acceleration of amounts due under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities or the substantial exercise by the lenders of their rights under the security documents would likely have a material adverse effect on us.. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful.. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things:. <U+2610>  our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; and. <U+2610>  the future availability of borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities, which depends on, among other things, our complying with the covenants in those facilities.. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs.. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all, and any proceeds that we could realize from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due.. - 40 -. Interest rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial condition.. Because our debt is variable-rate debt, fluctuations in interest rates could have a material effect on our business. As a result, we may incur higher interest costs if interest rates increase. These higher interest costs could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and the levels of cash we maintain for working capital.. We are dependent upon our lenders for financing to execute our business strategy and meet our liquidity needs. If our lenders are unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments or we are unable to borrow, it could negatively impact our business.. During periods of volatile credit markets, there is risk that any lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail or refuse to honor their legal commitments and obligations under existing credit commitments, including but not limited to, extending credit up to the maximum permitted by a credit facility. If our lenders are unable to fund borrowings under their revolving credit commitments or we are unable to borrow (such as having insufficient capacity under our borrowing base), it could be difficult in such environments to obtain sufficient liquidity to meet our operational needs.. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock. Cinven and our Chief Executive Officer and founder collectively control a substantial majority of our outstanding common stock and their interests may be different from or conflict with those of our other shareholders.. As of December 31, 2017, Cinven owned approximately 46.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and Dr. August J. Troendle, our Chief Executive Officer and founder, through his direct ownership of 1,221,416 shares of our common stock and his beneficial ownership of 9,145,510 shares of our common stock held by MPI, controls approximately 29.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Upon a distribution of our common stock held by MPI, our Chief Executive Officer would receive approximately 76.0% of such distributed shares. Accordingly, both Cinven and Dr. Troendle are able to exert a significant degree of influence or actual control over our management and affairs and control all corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, irrespective of how our other shareholders may vote, including:. <U+2610>  subject to the Voting Agreement (as defined below), the election and removal of directors and the size of our board of directors, or the Board;. <U+2610>  any amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws; or. <U+2610>  the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets.. Moreover, Cinven's and Dr. Troendle's share ownership may also adversely affect the trading price for our common stock to the extent investors perceive disadvantages in owning shares of a company with controlling shareholders. In addition, Cinven is in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with our business, as well as businesses that are significant existing or potential customers. Cinven may acquire or seek to acquire assets that we seek to acquire and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us or may be more expensive for us to pursue, and as a result, the interests of Cinven may not coincide and may even conflict with the interests of our other shareholders.. We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules and, as a result, we qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Our shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.. Substantially concurrently with the closing of our initial public offering, or the IPO, Cinven and Dr. August J. Troendle, our Chief Executive Officer and founder, entered into a voting agreement, or the Voting Agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the Voting Agreement, for so long as Cinven and Dr. Troendle collectively hold at least 40% of our outstanding voting shares, or the Voting Agreement is otherwise terminated in accordance with its terms, Cinven has agreed to vote its shares of our common stock in favor of the election of Dr. Troendle to our Board (so long as Dr. Troendle remains our Chief Executive Officer) upon his nomination by our Board and Dr. Troendle has. - 41 -. agreed to vote his shares of our common stock in favor of the election of the directors affiliated with Cinven upon their nomination by our Board; provided, that in the event that Cinven holds less than (a) 40% but greater than or equal to 25% of our voting shares then outstanding, Dr. Troendle shall be required to vote for two directors affiliated with Cinven, after giving effect to the directors then sitting on the Board, (b) 25% but greater than or equal to 10% of our voting shares then outstanding, Dr. Troendle shall be required to vote for one director affiliated with Cinven, after giving effect to the directors then sitting on the Board and (c) 10% of our voting shares then outstanding, Dr. Troendle shall not be required to vote for any directors affiliated with Cinven.. Because of the Voting Agreement and the aggregate voting power of Cinven and Dr. Troendle, we are considered a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of NASDAQ. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by an individual, group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that, within one year of the date of the listing of our common stock:. <U+2610>  we have a Board that is composed of a majority of \"independent directors,\" as defined under the rules of such exchange;. <U+2610>  we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and. <U+2610>  director nominations be made, or recommended to the full Board, by our independent directors or by a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities.. After we cease to be a \"controlled company,\" we will be required to comply with the above-referenced requirements within one year.. We currently do not have a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, our shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of NASDAQ. Cinven and Dr. Troendle, however, are not subject to any contractual obligation to retain their controlling interest. There can be no assurance as to the period of time during which Cinven and Dr. Troendle will maintain their ownership of our common stock. As a result, there can be no assurance as to the period of time during which we will be able to avail ourselves of the controlled company exemptions.. Upon the sale of a sufficient number of shares by Cinven or Dr. Troendle, we will no longer be a controlled company, and we may have difficulties complying with the NASDAQ rules listed above. We intend to comply with these NASDAQ rules if we cease to be a controlled company. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with such rules before the end of the phase-in period for compliance.. Our anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change in control of our company, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders.. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company, even if such change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions include:. <U+2610>  authorizing the issuance of \"blank check\" preferred stock that could be issued by our Board to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt;. <U+2610>  establishing a classified Board so that not all members of our Board are elected at one time;. <U+2610>  the removal of directors only for cause;. <U+2610>  prohibiting the use of cumulative voting for the election of directors;. <U+2610>  limiting the ability of shareholders to call special meetings or amend our bylaws;. - 42 -. <U+2610>  requiring all shareholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our shareholders and not by written consent; and. <U+2610>  establishing advance notice and duration of ownership requirements for nominations for election to the Board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings.. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions our shareholders desire. In addition, because our Board is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our shareholders to replace current members of our management team.. In addition, the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, to which we are subject, prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any mergers, significant sales of stock or assets or business combinations with any shareholder or group of shareholders who owns at least 15% of our common stock for three years following their becoming the owner of 15% of our common stock.. Cinven and our non-employee directors may acquire interests and positions that could present potential conflicts with our and our shareholders' interests.. Cinven and our non-employee directors make investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Cinven and our non-employee directors may also pursue, for their own accounts, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities might not be available to us. Our organizational documents contain provisions renouncing any interest or expectancy held by Cinven or by our non-employee directors in corporate opportunities. Accordingly, the interests of Cinven and our non-employee directors may supersede ours, causing Cinven or its affiliates or our non-employee directors and their affiliates to compete against us or to pursue opportunities instead of us, for which we have no recourse. Such actions on the part of Cinven or our non-employee directors and inaction on our part could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Full-time investment professionals of Cinven occupy three seats on our Board. Because Cinven could invest in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us, when conflicts arise between the interests of Cinven and the interests of our shareholders, these directors may not be disinterested.. We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future, which could make it difficult for another company to acquire us or could otherwise adversely affect holders of our common stock, which could depress the price of our common stock.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue one or more series of preferred stock. Our Board has the authority to determine the preferences, limitations and relative rights of the shares of preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by our shareholders. Our preferred stock could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to the rights of our common stock. The potential issuance of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control of us, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium to the market price, and materially and adversely affect the market price and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock.. The provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requiring exclusive venue in the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware for certain types of lawsuits may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against our directors and officers.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires, to the fullest extent permitted by law, that (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our shareholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL or our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or the bylaws or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us governed by the internal affairs doctrine will have to be brought only in the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware. Although we believe this provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law in the types of lawsuits to which it applies, the provision may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against our directors and officers.. - 43 -. Failure to establish and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. As a public company, we are now required to comply with the rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and are therefore required to make a formal assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for that purpose. We are required to comply with the SEC's rules implementing Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which require management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of controls over financial reporting. As an emerging growth company, our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC or the date we are no longer an emerging growth company. At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating.. To comply with the requirements of being a newly public company, we have undertaken various actions, and may need to take additional actions, such as implementing new internal controls and procedures and hiring additional accounting or internal audit staff. Testing and maintaining internal control can divert our management's attention from other matters that are important to the operation of our business. Additionally, when evaluating our internal control over financial reporting, we may identify material weaknesses that will cause us to be out of compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 or assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting once we are no longer an emerging growth company, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected, and we could become subject to investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources.. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives.. As a publicly traded company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we were not required to incur prior to our IPO. Further, these costs may increase after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company\" as defined under the JOBS Act. In addition, compliance with new and changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Customer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated and to be promulgated thereunder, as well as under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the rules and regulations of the SEC, has increased and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly. For example, the Exchange Act requires us, among other things, to file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. Being a public company and being subject to new rules and regulations has made it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to continue to obtain coverage. As such, we expect to continue to incur additional annual expenses of $3.0 million to $4.0 million related to operating as a public company. These factors may therefore strain our resources, divert management's attention, and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified members of our Board and adversely affect our operating margins.. Furthermore, the need to continue to establish the corporate infrastructure demanded of a public company may divert management's attention from implementing our growth strategy, which could prevent us from improving our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have made, and will continue to make, changes to our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations as a publicly traded company. However, the measures we take may not be sufficient to satisfy our obligations as a publicly traded company.. - 44 -. Our operating results and share price may be volatile, and the market price of our common stock may drop.. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated, and are likely to fluctuate in the future. In addition, securities markets worldwide have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could subject the market price of shares of our common stock to wide price fluctuations regardless of our operating performance. The public market for our common stock is new and the trading price of shares of our common stock may fluctuate in response to various factors, including:. <U+2610>  market conditions in the broader stock market or in the healthcare sector;. <U+2610>  developments affecting biopharmaceutical companies generally or biopharmaceutical research and development outsourcing;. <U+2610>  actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results;. <U+2610>  introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors;. <U+2610>  the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC;. <U+2610>  changes in, or failure to meet, earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who track our common stock or the stock of other companies in our industries;. <U+2610>  strategic actions by us, our customers or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings;. <U+2610>  changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;. <U+2610>  issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations or termination of coverage of our common stock by securities analysts;. <U+2610>  sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock;. <U+2610>  the granting or exercise of employee stock options;. <U+2610>  volume of trading in our common stock;. <U+2610>  additions or departures of key personnel;. <U+2610>  regulatory or political developments;. <U+2610>  litigation and governmental investigations;. <U+2610>  changing economic conditions;. <U+2610>  defaults on our indebtedness;. <U+2610>  exchange rate fluctuations; and. <U+2610>  the other factors listed in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. These and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause our operating results and the market price and demand for shares of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. While we believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares and may otherwise negatively affect the market price and liquidity of shares of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our shareholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. - 45 -. Shares of our common stock may be sold into the market in the near future. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. As of December 31, 2017, we had 35,466,510 shares of outstanding common stock. Outstanding shares of our common stock are freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, except for any shares of our common stock that are held or acquired by our directors, executive officers and other affiliates, as that term is defined in the Securities Act, which will be or are restricted securities under the Securities Act. Restricted securities may not be sold in the public market unless the sale is registered under the Securities Act or an exemption from registration is available.. We are also party to a registration rights agreement, or the Registration Rights Agreement, pursuant to which the shares of common stock held by Cinven and Dr. August J. Troendle, our Chief Executive Officer and founder, are eligible for resale, subject to certain limitations set forth therein.. In connection with the IPO, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register all shares of common stock issued or issuable under the 2016 Incentive Award Plan, which became effective upon filing. Accordingly, shares registered under such registration statement will be available for sale in the open market following the expiration of the applicable lock-up period. The registration statement on Form S-8 covers 6,000,000 shares of our common stock.. As shares are registered or otherwise sold pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, our share price could drop significantly if the holders of these shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.. In the future, we may also issue additional securities if we need to raise capital or make acquisitions, which could constitute a material portion of our then-outstanding shares of common stock.. Because we have no current plans to pay regular cash dividends on our common stock, our shareholders may not receive any return on investment unless they sell their common stock for a price greater than that which they paid for it.. We do not anticipate paying any regular cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our Board and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our Board may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is, and may continue to be, limited by covenants of existing and any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including under our existing Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Therefore, any return on investment in our common stock is solely dependent upon the appreciation of the price of our common stock on the open market, which may not occur.. We are a holding company and rely on dividends and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations and pay any dividends.. We have no direct operations and no significant assets other than ownership of 100% of the capital stock of our subsidiaries. Because we conduct our operations through our subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations, and to pay any dividends with respect to our common stock. Legal and contractual restrictions in our Senior Secured Credit Facilities and other agreements which may govern future indebtedness of our subsidiaries, as well as the financial condition and operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. The earnings from, or other available assets of, our subsidiaries might not be sufficient to pay dividends or make distributions or loans to enable us to pay any dividends on our common stock or other obligations. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. - 46 -. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, if they adversely change their recommendations regarding our common stock or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our share price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for shares of our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, or if our results of operations do not meet their expectations, our share price could decline.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" and as a result of the reduced disclosure and governance requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, our common stock may be less attractive to investors.. The JOBS Act provides that, so long as a company qualifies as an \"emerging growth company,\" it will, among other things:. <U+2610>  be exempt from the provisions of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requiring that its independent registered public accounting firm provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting;. <U+2610>  be exempt from the \"say on pay\" and \"say on golden parachute\" advisory vote requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act;. <U+2610>  be exempt from certain disclosure requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act relating to compensation of its executive officers and be permitted to omit the detailed compensation discussion and analysis from proxy statements and reports filed under the Exchange Act; and. <U+2610>  be exempt from any rules that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board requiring mandatory audit firm rotations or a supplement to the auditor's report on the financial statements.. We currently take advantage of each of the exemptions described above. In connection with our IPO, we irrevocably elected not to take advantage of the extension of time to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards available under Section 107(b) of the JOBS Act. We could be an emerging growth company up to the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our IPO. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we elect to rely on these exemptions, or if taking advantage of these exemptions would result in less active trading or more volatility in the price of our common stock.. Investment funds affiliated with Cinven pledged all of its owned shares of our common stock as collateral for borrowings under a credit agreement unaffiliated with Medpace.. On June 16, 2017, Cinven informed us that Medpace Limited Partnership (\"MLP\"), an entity formed by Cinven to hold all Cinven's equity interests in us, entered into a credit agreement (the \"MLP Credit Agreement\") with Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch, and Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A., as lenders (together, the \"Lenders\"), Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch, as administrative agent, and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, as calculation agent. Pursuant to the MLP Credit Agreement, MLP entered into a pledge agreement (the \"MLP Pledge Agreement\") with Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, as secured party and Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A., as secured party (together, the \"Secured Parties\"). Pursuant to the MLP Pledge Agreement, MLP pledged all of its shares of the Company's common stock, $0.01 par value per share, to the Secured Parties.. On June 21, 2017 (the \"MLP Funding Date\"), MLP borrowed $150.0 million under the MLP Credit Agreement. Pursuant to the MLP Pledge Agreement, to secure any borrowings under the MLP Credit Agreement, MLP pledged 22,999,997 shares (collectively, the \"MLP Pledged Shares\") of the Company's common stock as of the MLP Funding Date. The MLP Pledged Shares represented approximately 46.2% of the Company's issued and outstanding Common Stock as of December 31, 2017. All of the MLP Pledged Shares were contributed to MLP from Cinven's Fifth Cinven Fund (No. 1) Limited Partnership, Fifth Cinven Fund (No. 2) Limited Partnership, Fifth Cinven Fund (No. 3) Limited Partnership, Fifth Cinven Fund (No. 4) Limited Partnership, Fifth Cinven Fund (No. 5) Limited. - 47 -. Partnership, Fifth Cinven Fund (No. 6) Limited Partnership, Fifth Cinven Fund FCP-SIF and Fifth Cinven Fund Co-Investment Partnership, which collectively own all of the equity interest in MLP.. The MLP Credit Agreement contains customary default provisions. In the event of a default under the MLP Credit Agreement by MLP, the Lenders and their affiliates and assignees may foreclose upon any and all MLP Pledged Shares and may seek recourse against MLP.  The Company is not a party to the MLP Credit Agreement or the MLP Pledge Agreement and has no obligations thereunder, but has delivered a letter agreement to the Lenders in which it has, among other things, agreed, subject to applicable law and stock exchange rules, not to take any action intended to hinder or delay the exercise of any remedies by the Lenders under the MLP Credit Agreement or the MLP Pledge Agreement.. In the event of a foreclosure upon any or all of the MLP Pledged Shares, we may no longer be a controlled company, and we may have difficulties complying with certain NASDAQ rules that we take advantage of as a controlled company if we cease to be a controlled company. We intend to comply with these NASDAQ rules if we cease to be a controlled company. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with such rules before the end of the applicable phase-in period for compliance.  See \"Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock - We are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NASDAQ rules and, as a result, we qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.. Our shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to such requirements\" in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Additionally, any foreclosure upon the MLP Pledged Shares could result in sales of a substantial amount of shares of our common stock in the public market, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well.  See \"Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock - Shares of our common stock may be sold into the market in the near future. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well\" in Item 1A of Part I of the Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, the occurrence of a foreclosure, and a subsequent sale of all, or substantially all, of the MLP Pledged Shares could result in a change of control under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities, even when such change may not be in the best interest of our stockholders.  Such sale of the MLP Pledged Shares may also result in another shareholder beneficially owning a significant amount of our common stock and being able to exert a significant degree of influence or actual control over our management and affairs.  Such shareholder's interests may be different from or conflict with those of our other shareholders.  See \"Risk Factors - Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock - Cinven and our Chief Executive Officer and founder collectively control a substantial majority of our outstanding common stock and their interests may be different from or conflict with those of our other shareholders\" in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K."
