[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company's business involves various risks and uncertainties in addition to the normal risks of business, some of which are discussed in this section. It should be noted that the Company's business and that of other insurers may be adversely affected by a downturn in general economic conditions and other forces beyond the Company's control. In addition, other risks and uncertainties not presently known or that the Company currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect the Company's business. Any such risks or uncertainties, or any of the following risks or uncertainties, that develop into actual events could result in a material and adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.. The information discussed below should be considered carefully with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other documents and materials filed by the Company with the SEC, as well as news releases and other information publicly disseminated by the Company from time to time. The following risk factors are in no particular order.. Risks Related to the Company's Business. The Company remains highly dependent upon California to produce revenues and operating profits.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company generated 84% of its direct automobile insurance premiums written in California. The Company's financial results are subject to prevailing regulatory, legal, economic, demographic, competitive, and other conditions in the states in which the Company operates and changes in any of these conditions could negatively impact the Company's results of operations.. Mercury General is a holding company that relies on regulated subsidiaries for cash flows to satisfy its obligations.. As a holding company, Mercury General maintains no operations that generate cash flows sufficient to pay operating expenses, shareholders' dividends, or principal or interest on its indebtedness. Consequently, Mercury General relies on the ability of the Insurance Companies, particularly the California Companies, to pay dividends for Mercury General to meet its obligations. The ability of the Insurance Companies to pay dividends is regulated by state insurance laws, which limit the amount of, and in certain circumstances may prohibit the payment of, cash dividends. Generally, these insurance regulations permit the payment of dividends only out of earned surplus in any year which, together with other dividends or distributions made within the preceding 12 months, do not exceed the greater of 10% of statutory surplus as of the end of the preceding year or the net income for the preceding year, with larger dividends payable only after receipt of prior regulatory approval. The inability of the Insurance Companies to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable the Company to meet its cash requirements at the holding company level could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition, and its ability to pay dividends to its shareholders.. 12. The Insurance Companies are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements, and any failure to meet these requirements could subject the Insurance Companies to regulatory action.. The Insurance Companies are subject to risk-based capital standards and other minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed under the applicable laws of their states of domicile. The risk-based capital standards, based upon the Risk-Based Capital Model Act adopted by the NAIC, require the Insurance Companies to report their results of RBC calculations to state departments of insurance and the NAIC. If any of the Insurance Companies fails to meet these standards and requirements, the DOI regulating such subsidiary may require specified actions by the subsidiary.. The Company's success depends on its ability to accurately underwrite risks and to charge adequate premiums to policyholders.. The Company's financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity depend on its ability to underwrite and set premiums accurately for the risks it assumes. Premium rate adequacy is necessary to generate sufficient premium to offset losses, loss adjustment expenses, and underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. In order to price its products accurately, the Company must collect and properly analyze a substantial volume of data; develop, test, and apply appropriate rating formulae; closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends; and project both severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy. The Company's ability to undertake these efforts successfully, and as a result, price accurately, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to:. • availability of sufficient reliable data;. • incorrect or incomplete analysis of available data;. • uncertainties inherent in estimates and assumptions, generally;. • selection and application of appropriate rating formulae or other pricing methodologies;. • successful innovation of new pricing strategies;. • recognition of changes in trends and in the projected severity and frequency of losses;. • the Company's ability to forecast renewals of existing policies accurately;. • unanticipated court decisions, legislation or regulatory action;. • ongoing changes in the Company's claim settlement practices;. • changes in operating expenses;. • changing driving patterns;. • extra-contractual liability arising from bad faith claims;. • catastrophes, including those which may be related to climate change;. • unexpected medical inflation; and. • unanticipated inflation in automobile repair costs, automobile parts prices, and used car prices.. Such risks and uncertainties may result in the Company's pricing being based on outdated, inadequate or inaccurate data, or inappropriate analyses, assumptions or methodologies, and may cause the Company to estimate incorrectly future changes in the frequency or severity of claims. As a result, the Company could underprice risks, which would negatively affect the Company's margins, or it could overprice risks, which could reduce the Company's volume and competitiveness. In either event, the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected.. The Company's insurance rates are subject to approval by the departments of insurance in most of the states in which the Company operates, and to political influences.. In five of the states in which it operates, including California, the Company must obtain the DOI's prior approval of insurance rates charged to its customers, including any increases in those rates. If the Company is unable to receive approval of the rate changes it requests, or if such approval is delayed, the Company's ability to operate its business in a profitable manner may be limited and its financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity may be adversely affected. Additionally, in California, the law allows for consumer groups to intervene in rate filings, which frequently causes delays in rate approvals and implementation of rate changes and can impact the rate that is ultimately approved.. 13. From time to time, the automobile insurance industry comes under pressure from state regulators, legislators, and special interest groups to reduce, freeze, or set rates at levels that do not correspond with underlying costs, in the opinion of the Company's management. The homeowners insurance business faces similar pressure, particularly as regulators in catastrophe-prone states seek an acceptable methodology to price for catastrophe exposure. In addition, various insurance underwriting and pricing criteria regularly come under attack by regulators, legislators, and special interest groups. The result could be legislation, regulations, or new interpretations of existing regulations that adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on the Company's business are uncertain and may have an adverse effect on the Company's business.. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social, and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect the Company's business by either extending coverage beyond its underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after the Company has issued insurance policies that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under the Company's insurance policies may not be known for many years after a policy is issued.. Loss of, or significant restriction on, the use of credit scoring in the pricing and underwriting of personal lines products could reduce the Company's future profitability.. The Company uses credit scoring as a factor in pricing and underwriting decisions where allowed by state law. Some consumer groups and regulators have questioned whether the use of credit scoring unfairly discriminates against some groups of people and are seeking to prohibit or restrict the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. Laws or regulations that significantly curtail or regulate the use of credit scoring, if enacted in a large number of states in which the Company operates, could negatively impact the Company's future results of operations.. If the Company cannot maintain its A.M. Best ratings, it may not be able to maintain premium volume in its insurance operations sufficient to attain the Company's financial performance goals.. The Company's ability to retain its existing business or to attract new business in its Insurance Companies is affected by its rating by A.M. Best Company. A.M. Best Company currently rates all of the Insurance Companies with sufficient operating history to be rated as either A+ (Superior) or A- (Excellent). On September 28, 2017, A.M. Best Company affirmed all of the Company's ratings and the Negative outlook for the A+ rated entities. The Company is working to remove the Negative outlook back to Stable in the next ratings cycle. The Company believes that if it is unable to maintain its A.M. Best ratings within the A ratings range, it may face greater challenges to grow its premium volume sufficiently to attain its financial performance goals, which may adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. Two of the smaller Insurance Companies, California General Underwriters Insurance Company, Inc. and Workmen's Auto Insurance Company, are not rated by A.M. Best Company and the rating is not critical to the type of business they produce.. The Company may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms.. The Company's future capital requirements, including to fund future growth opportunities, depend on many factors, including its ability to underwrite new business successfully, its ability to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses, the success of its expansion plans, the performance of its investment portfolio and its ability to obtain financing. The Company may seek to obtain financing through equity or debt issuances, or sales of all or a portion of its investment portfolio or other assets. The Company's ability to obtain financing also depends on economic conditions affecting financial markets and financial strength and claims-paying ability ratings, which are assigned based upon an evaluation of the Company's ability to meet its financial obligations. The Company's current financial strength rating with Fitch and Moody's is A and A2, respectively. If the Company were to seek financing through the capital markets in the future, there can be no assurance that the Company would obtain favorable ratings from rating agencies. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may not be available on terms that are favorable to the Company. In the case of equity financing, the Company's shareholders could experience dilution. In addition, such securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges that are senior to those of the Company's current shareholders. If the Company cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, its business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Changes in market interest rates, defaults on securities and tax considerations may have an adverse effect on the Company's investment portfolio, which may adversely affect the Company's financial results.. The Company's financial results are affected, in part, by the performance of its investment portfolio. The Company's investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive-investments, such as municipal and corporate bonds. Increases in market. 14. interest rates may have an adverse impact on the value of the investment portfolio by decreasing the value of fixed income securities. Declining market interest rates could have an adverse impact on the Company's investment income as it invests positive cash flows from operations and as it reinvests proceeds from maturing and called investments in new investments that could yield lower rates than the Company's investments have historically generated. Defaults in the Company's investment portfolio may produce operating losses and negatively impact the Company's results of operations.. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond the Company's control. Market interest rates have been at historic lows for the last several years. Many observers, including the Company, believe that market interest rates will rise as the economy improves. Although the Company takes measures to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, it may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. The Company's mitigation efforts include maintaining a high quality portfolio and managing the duration of the portfolio to reduce the effect of interest rate changes. Despite its mitigation efforts, a significant change in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Although the Company monitors the timing and recognition of capital gains and losses in an effort to maximize the realization of deferred tax assets arising from capital losses, no guaranty can be provided that such monitoring or the Company's tax strategies will be effective.. The Company's valuation of financial instruments may include methodologies, estimates, and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to valuations that may materially adversely affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations.. The Company employs a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date using the exit price. Accordingly, when market observable data are not readily available, the Company's own assumptions are set to reflect those that market participants would be presumed to use in pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. Assets and liabilities recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value are categorized based on the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair value and the level of market price observability.. During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly changing interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads, inactivity or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of the Company's securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data become less observable. There may be certain asset classes in historically active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to changes in the financial environment. In such cases, the valuations associated with such securities may rely more on management's judgment and include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods that are more sophisticated or require greater estimation. The valuations generated by such methods may be different from the value at which the investments ultimately may be sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within the Company's consolidated financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.. Changes in the financial strength ratings of financial guaranty insurers issuing policies on bonds held in the Company's investment portfolio may have an adverse effect on the Company's investment results.. In an effort to enhance the bond rating applicable to certain bond issues, some bond issuers purchase municipal bond insurance policies from private insurers. The insurance generally guarantees the payment of principal and interest on a bond issue if the issuer defaults. By purchasing the insurance, the financial strength ratings applicable to the bonds are based on the credit worthiness of the insurer as well as the underlying credit of the bond issuer. These financial guaranty insurers are subject to DOI oversight. As the financial strength ratings of these insurers are reduced, the ratings of the insured bond issues correspondingly decrease. Although the Company has determined that the financial strength ratings of the underlying bond issues in its investment portfolio are within the Company's investment policy without the enhancement provided by the insurance policies, any further downgrades in the financial strength ratings of these insurance companies or any defaults on the insurance policies written by these insurance companies may reduce the fair value of the underlying bond issues and the Company's investment portfolio or may reduce the investment results generated by the Company's investment portfolio, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.. Deterioration of the municipal bond market in general or of specific municipal bonds held by the Company may result in a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.. At December 31, 2017, 67.9% of the Company's total investment portfolio at fair value and 87.6% of its total fixed maturity investments at fair value were invested in tax-exempt municipal bonds. With such a large percentage of the Company's investment. 15. portfolio invested in municipal bonds, the performance of the Company's investment portfolio, including the cash flows generated by the investment portfolio, is significantly dependent on the performance of municipal bonds. If the value of municipal bond markets in general or any of the Company's municipal bond holdings deteriorates, the performance of the Company's investment portfolio, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity may be materially and adversely affected.. If the Company's loss reserves are inadequate, its business and financial position could be harmed.. The process of establishing property and liability loss reserves is inherently uncertain due to a number of factors, including underwriting quality, the frequency and amount of covered losses, variations in claims settlement practices, the costs and uncertainty of litigation, and expanding theories of liability. While the Company believes that its actuarial techniques and databases are sufficient to estimate loss reserves, the Company's approach may prove to be inadequate. If any of these contingencies, many of which are beyond the Company's control, results in loss reserves that are not sufficient to cover its actual losses, the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity may be materially and adversely affected.. There is uncertainty involved in the availability of reinsurance and the collectability of reinsurance recoverable.. The Company reinsures a portion of its potential losses on the policies it issues to mitigate the volatility of the losses on its financial condition and results of operations. The availability and cost of reinsurance is subject to market conditions, which are outside of the Company's control. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases, prevented insurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that they consider adequate for their business needs. As a result, the Company may not be able to successfully purchase reinsurance and transfer a portion of the Company's risk through reinsurance arrangements. In addition, as is customary, the Company initially pays all claims and seeks to recover the reinsured losses from its reinsurers. Although the Company reports as assets the amount of claims paid which the Company expects to recover from reinsurers, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to collect from its reinsurers. If the amounts actually recoverable under the Company's reinsurance treaties are ultimately determined to be less than the amount it has reported as recoverable, the Company may incur a loss during the period in which that determination is made.. The failure of any loss limitation methods employed by the Company could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations.. Various provisions of the Company's policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage which are intended to limit the Company's risks, may not be enforceable in the manner the Company intends. In addition, the Company's policies contain conditions requiring the prompt reporting of claims and the Company's right to decline coverage in the event of a violation of that condition. While the Company's insurance product exclusions and limitations reduce the Company's loss exposure and help eliminate known exposures to certain risks, it is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void an exclusion or legislation could be enacted modifying or barring the use of such endorsements and limitations in a way that would adversely affect the Company's loss experience, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations.. The Company's business is vulnerable to significant catastrophic property loss, which could have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.. The Company faces a significant risk of loss in the ordinary course of its business for property damage resulting from natural disasters, man-made catastrophes and other catastrophic events, particularly hurricanes, earthquakes, hail storms, explosions, tropical storms, rain storms, fires, mudslides, sinkholes, war, acts of terrorism, severe weather and other natural and man-made disasters. Such events typically increase the frequency and severity of automobile and other property claims. Because catastrophic loss events are by their nature unpredictable, historical results of operations may not be indicative of future results of operations, and the occurrence of claims from catastrophic events may result in substantial volatility in the Company's financial condition and results of operations from period to period. Although the Company attempts to manage its exposure to such events, the occurrence of one or more major catastrophes in any given period could have a material and adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations and could result in substantial outflows of cash as losses are paid.. The Company depends on independent agents who may discontinue sales of its policies at any time.. The Company sells its insurance policies primarily through approximately 10,400 independent agents. The Company must compete with other insurance carriers for these agents' business. Some competitors offer a larger variety of products, lower prices for insurance coverage, higher commissions, or more attractive non-cash incentives. To maintain its relationship with these independent agents, the Company must pay competitive commissions, be able to respond to their needs quickly and adequately, and create a consistently high level of customer satisfaction. If these independent agents find it preferable to do business with the Company's competitors, it would be difficult to renew the Company's existing business or attract new business. State regulations may also limit the manner in which the Company's producers are compensated or incentivized. Such developments could negatively impact the Company's relationship with these parties and ultimately reduce revenues.. 16. The Company's expansion plans may adversely affect its future profitability.. The Company intends to continue to expand its operations in several of the states in which the Company has operations and into states in which it has not yet begun operations. The intended expansion will necessitate increased expenditures. The Company intends to fund these expenditures out of cash flows from operations. The expansion may not occur, or if it does occur, may not be successful in providing increased revenues or profitability. If the Company's cash flows from operations are insufficient to cover the costs of the expansion, or if the expansion does not provide the benefits anticipated, the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and ability to grow its business may be harmed.. Any inability of the Company to realize its deferred tax assets, if and when they arise, may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences related to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and for tax credits. The Company evaluates its deferred tax assets for recoverability based on available evidence, including assumptions about future profitability and capital gain generation. Although management believes that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized, some or all of the Company's deferred tax assets could expire unused if the Company is unable to generate taxable income of an appropriate character and in a sufficient amount to utilize these tax benefits in the future. Any determination that the Company would not be able to realize all or a portion of its deferred tax assets in the future would result in a charge to earnings in the period in which the determination is made. This charge could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the assumptions used to make this determination are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between the Company's projected operating performance and actual results. As a result, significant management judgment is required in assessing the possible need for a deferred tax asset valuation allowance. The changes in the estimates and assumptions used in such assessments and decisions can materially affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. The carrying value of the Company's goodwill and other intangible assets could be subject to an impairment write-down.. At December 31, 2017, the Company's consolidated balance sheets reflected approximately $43 million of goodwill and $21 million of other intangible assets. The Company evaluates whether events or circumstances have occurred that suggest that the fair values of its goodwill and other intangible assets are below their respective carrying values. The determination that the fair values of the Company's goodwill and other intangible assets are less than their carrying values may result in an impairment write-down. An impairment write-down would be reflected as expense and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations during the period in which it recognizes the expense. In the future, the Company may incur impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets already recorded or arising out of future acquisitions.. The Company relies on its information technology systems to manage many aspects of its business, and any failure of these systems to function properly or any interruption in their operation could result in a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The Company depends on the accuracy, reliability, and proper functioning of its information technology systems. The Company relies on these information technology systems to effectively manage many aspects of its business, including underwriting, policy acquisition, claims processing and handling, accounting, reserving and actuarial processes and policies, and to maintain its policyholder data. The Company has deployed, and continues to enhance, new information technology systems that are designed to manage many of these functions across the states in which it operates and the lines of insurance it offers. See \"Overview - A. General - Technology\" in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.\" The failure of hardware or software that supports the Company's information technology systems, the loss of data contained in the systems, or any delay or failure in the full deployment of the Company's information technology systems could disrupt its business and could result in decreased premiums, increased overhead costs, and inaccurate reporting, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. In addition, despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures, and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for the Company's information technology systems, these systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from:. • earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters;. • terrorist attacks and attacks by computer viruses, hackers, phishing, ransomware, or other exploits;. • power loss in areas not covered by backup power generators;. • unauthorized access; and. 17. • computer systems, internet, telecommunications or data network failure.. It is possible that a system failure, accident, or security breach could result in a material disruption to the Company's business. In addition, substantial costs may be incurred to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions. Following implementation of information technology systems, the Company may from time to time install new or upgraded business management systems. To the extent that a critical system fails or is not properly implemented and the failure cannot be corrected in a timely manner, the Company may experience disruptions to the business that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.. Cyber security risks and the failure to maintain the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of internal or policyholder systems and data could result in damages to the Company's reputation and/or subject it to expenses, fines or lawsuits.. The Company collects and retains large volumes of internal and policyholder data, including personally identifiable information, for business purposes including underwriting, claims and billing purposes, and relies upon the various information technology systems that enter, process, summarize and report such data. The Company also maintains personally identifiable information about its employees. The confidentiality and protection of the Company's policyholder, employee and Company data are critical to the Company's business. The Company's policyholders and employees have a high expectation that the Company will adequately protect their personal information. The regulatory environment, as well as the requirements imposed by the payment card industry and insurance regulators, governing information, security and privacy laws is increasingly demanding and continues to evolve. Maintaining compliance with applicable information security and privacy regulations may increase the Company's operating costs and adversely impact its ability to market products and services to its policyholders. Furthermore, a penetrated or compromised information technology system or the intentional, unauthorized, inadvertent or negligent release or disclosure of data could result in theft, loss, fraudulent or unlawful use of policyholder, employee or Company data which could harm the Company's reputation or result in remedial and other expenses, fines or lawsuits. Although the Company seeks to mitigate the impact and severity of potential cyber threats through cyber insurance coverage, not every risk or liability can be insured, and for risks that are insurable, the policy limits and terms of coverage reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred. In addition, disputes with insurance carriers, including over policy terms, reservation of rights, the applicability of coverage (including exclusions), compliance with provisions (including notice) and/or the insolvency of one or more of our insurers, may significantly affect the amount or timing of recovery.. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the \"FASB\") or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect the Company's consolidated financial statements.. The Company's consolidated financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, the Company is required to adopt new or revised accounting standards from time to time issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB. It is possible that future changes the Company is required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that the Company applies to its consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The Company's disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect acts of fraud.. The Company's disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is accumulated and communicated to management and is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms. The Company's management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, the Company cannot provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been prevented or detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by an unauthorized override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and the Company cannot assure that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse effect on the Company's stock price.. The Company is required to include in its Annual Report on Form 10-K a report by its management regarding the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting, which includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness. 18. of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of the end of its fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not the Company's internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in the Company's internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Areas of the Company's internal control over financial reporting may require improvement from time to time. If management is unable to assert that the Company's internal control over financial reporting is effective now or in any future period, or if the Company's independent auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of those internal controls, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of the Company's financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's stock price.. The ability of the Company to attract, develop and retain talented employees, managers and executives, and to maintain appropriate staffing levels, is critical to the Company's success.. The Company is constantly hiring and training new employees and seeking to retain current employees. An inability to attract, retain and motivate the necessary employees for the operation and expansion of the Company's business could hinder its ability to conduct its business activities successfully, develop new products and attract customers.. The Company's success also depends upon the continued contributions of its executive officers, both individually and as a group. The Company's future performance will be substantially dependent on its ability to retain and motivate its management team. The loss of the services of any of the Company's executive officers could prevent the Company from successfully implementing its business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Uncertain economic conditions may negatively affect the Company's business and operating results.. Uncertain economic conditions could adversely affect the Company in the form of consumer behavior and pressure on its investment portfolio. Consumer behavior could include policy cancellations, modifications, or non-renewals, which may reduce cash flows from operations and investments, may harm the Company's financial position, and may reduce the Insurance Companies' statutory surplus. Uncertain economic conditions also may impair the ability of the Company's customers to pay premiums as they become due, and as a result, the Company's bad debt reserves and write-offs could increase. It is also possible that claims fraud may increase. The Company's investment portfolios could be adversely affected as a result of financial and business conditions affecting the issuers of the securities in the Company's investment portfolio. In addition, declines in the Company's profitability could result in a charge to earnings for the impairment of goodwill, which would not affect the Company's cash flows but could decrease its earnings, and could adversely affect its stock price.. The Company may be adversely affected if economic conditions result in either inflation or deflation. In an inflationary environment, established reserves may become inadequate and increase the Company's loss ratio, and market interest rates may rise and reduce the value of the Company's fixed maturity portfolio. The departments of insurance may not approve premium rate increases in time for the Company to adequately mitigate inflated loss costs. In a deflationary environment, some fixed maturity issuers may have difficulty meeting their debt service obligations and thereby reduce the value of the Company's fixed maturity portfolio; equity investments may decrease in value; and policyholders may experience difficulties paying their premiums to the Company, which could adversely affect premium revenue.. Risks Related to the Company's Industry. The private passenger automobile insurance industry is highly competitive, and the Company may not be able to compete effectively against larger or better-capitalized companies.. The Company competes with many property and casualty insurance companies selling private passenger automobile insurance in the states in which the Company operates. Many of these competitors are better capitalized than the Company, have higher A.M. Best ratings, and have a larger market share in the states in which the Company operates. The superior capitalization of the competitors may enable them to offer lower rates, to withstand larger losses, and to more effectively take advantage of new marketing opportunities. The Company's competition may also become increasingly better capitalized in the future as the traditional barriers between insurance companies and banks and other financial institutions erode and as the property and casualty industry continues to consolidate. The Company's ability to compete against these larger, better-capitalized competitors depends on its ability to deliver superior service and its strong relationships with independent agents.. The Company may undertake strategic marketing and operating initiatives to improve its competitive position and drive growth. If the Company is unable to successfully implement new strategic initiatives or if the Company's marketing campaigns do not attract new customers, the Company's competitive position may be harmed, which could adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. Additionally, in the event of a failure of any competitor, the Company and other insurance companies would likely be required by state law to absorb the losses of the failed insurer and would be faced with an unexpected surge in new business from the failed insurer's former policyholders.. 19. The Company may be adversely affected by changes in the private passenger automobile insurance industry.. 76.3% of the Company's direct premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2017 were generated from private passenger automobile insurance policies. Adverse developments in the market for personal automobile insurance or the personal automobile insurance industry in general, whether related to changes in competition, pricing or regulations, could cause the Company's results of operations to suffer. The property-casualty insurance industry is also exposed to the risks of severe weather conditions, such as rainstorms, snowstorms, hail and ice storms, hurricanes, tornadoes, wild fires, sinkholes, earthquakes and, to a lesser degree, explosions, terrorist attacks, and riots. The automobile insurance business is also affected by cost trends that impact profitability. Factors which negatively affect cost trends include inflation in automobile repair costs, automobile parts costs, new and used car valuations, medical costs, and changes in non-economic costs due to changes in the legal and regulatory environments.  In addition, the advent of driverless cars and usage-based insurance could materially alter the way that automobile insurance is marketed, priced, and underwritten.. The Company cannot predict the impact that changing climate conditions, including legal, regulatory and social responses thereto, may have on its business.. Various scientists, environmentalists, international organizations, regulators and other commentators believe that global climate change has added, and will continue to add, to the unpredictability, frequency and severity of natural disasters (including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, freezes, droughts, other storms and fires) in certain parts of the world. In response, a number of legal and regulatory measures and social initiatives have been introduced in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas and other carbon emissions that may be chief contributors to global climate change. The Company cannot predict the impact that changing climate conditions, if any, will have on its business or its customers. It is also possible that the legal, regulatory and social responses to climate change could have a negative effect on the Company's results of operations or financial condition.. Changes in federal or state tax laws could adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.. The Company's financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity are dependent in part on tax policy implemented at the federal and/or state level. For example, a significant portion of the Company's investment portfolio consists of municipal securities that receive beneficial tax treatment under applicable federal tax law. The Company's results are also subject to federal and state tax rules applicable to dividends received from its subsidiaries and its equity holdings. Additionally, changes in tax laws could have an adverse effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities included in the Company's consolidated balance sheets and results of operations. Certain elements of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Act\"), enacted into law on December 22, 2017, are pending final regulations from the Internal Revenue Service and state taxing jurisdictions. The Company cannot predict whether any tax legislation, in addition to the Act, will be enacted in the near future or whether any such changes to existing federal or state tax law would have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The insurance industry is subject to extensive regulation, which may affect the Company's ability to execute its business plan and grow its business.. The Company is subject to extensive regulation and supervision by government agencies in each of the states in which its Insurance Companies are domiciled, sell insurance products, issue policies, or manage claims. Some states impose restrictions or require prior regulatory approval of specific corporate actions, which may adversely affect the Company's ability to operate, innovate, obtain necessary rate adjustments in a timely manner or grow its business profitably. These regulations provide safeguards for policyholders and are not intended to protect the interests of shareholders. The Company's ability to comply with these laws and regulations, and to obtain necessary regulatory action in a timely manner is, and will continue to be, critical to its success. Some of these regulations include:. Required Licensing. The Company operates under licenses issued by the DOI in the states in which the Company sells insurance. If a regulatory authority denies or delays granting a new license, the Company's ability to enter that market quickly or offer new insurance products in that market may be substantially impaired. In addition, if the DOI in any state in which the Company currently operates suspends, non-renews, or revokes an existing license, the Company would not be able to offer affected products in that state.. Transactions Between Insurance Companies and Their Affiliates. Transactions between the Insurance Companies and their affiliates (including the Company) generally must be disclosed to state regulators, and prior approval of the applicable regulator is required before any material or extraordinary transaction may be consummated. State regulators may refuse to approve or delay approval of some transactions, which may adversely affect the Company's ability to innovate or operate efficiently.. 20. Regulation of Insurance Rates and Approval of Policy Forms. The insurance laws of most states in which the Company conducts business require insurance companies to file insurance rate schedules and insurance policy forms for review and approval. If, as permitted in some states, the Company begins using new rates before they are approved, it may be required to issue refunds or credits to the Company's policyholders if the new rates are ultimately deemed excessive or unfair and disapproved by the applicable state regulator. In other states, prior approval of rate changes is required and there may be long delays in the approval process or the rates may not be approved. Accordingly, the Company's ability to respond to market developments or increased costs in that state can be adversely affected.. Restrictions on Cancellation, Non-Renewal or Withdrawal. Most of the states in which the Company operates have laws and regulations that limit its ability to exit a market. For example, these states may limit a private passenger automobile insurer's ability to cancel and non-renew policies or they may prohibit the Company from withdrawing one or more lines of insurance business from the state unless prior approval is received from the state DOI. In some states, these regulations extend to significant reductions in the amount of insurance written, not only to a complete withdrawal. Laws and regulations that limit the Company's ability to cancel and non-renew policies in some states or locations and that subject withdrawal plans to prior approval requirements may restrict the Company's ability to exit unprofitable markets, which may harm its business and results of operations.. Other Regulations. The Company must also comply with regulations involving, among other matters:. • the use of non-public consumer information and related privacy issues;. • the use of credit history in underwriting and rating;. • limitations on the ability to charge policy fees;. • limitations on types and amounts of investments;. • the payment of dividends;. • the acquisition or disposition of an insurance company or of any company controlling an insurance company;. • involuntary assignments of high-risk policies, participation in reinsurance facilities and underwriting associations, assessments and other governmental charges;. • reporting with respect to financial condition;. • periodic financial and market conduct examinations performed by state insurance department examiners; and. • the other regulations discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. The failure to comply with these laws and regulations may also result in regulatory actions, fines and penalties, and in extreme cases, revocation of the Company's ability to do business in that jurisdiction. In addition, the Company may face individual and class action lawsuits by insured and other parties for alleged violations of certain of these laws or regulations.. In addition, from time to time, the Company may support or oppose legislation or other amendments to insurance regulations in California or other states in which it operates. Consequently, the Company may receive negative publicity related to its support or opposition of legislative or regulatory changes that may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.. Regulation may become more restrictive in the future, which may adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. No assurance can be given that states will not make existing insurance-related laws and regulations more restrictive in the future or enact new restrictive laws. New or more restrictive regulation in any state in which the Company conducts business could make it more expensive for it to continue to conduct business in these states, restrict the premiums the Company is able to charge or otherwise change the way the Company does business. In such events, the Company may seek to reduce its writings in or to withdraw entirely from these states. In addition, from time to time, the United States Congress and certain federal agencies investigate the current condition of the insurance industry to determine whether federal regulation is necessary. The Company cannot predict whether and to what extent new laws and regulations that would affect its business will be adopted, the timing of any such adoption and what effects, if any, they may have on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Assessments and other surcharges for guaranty funds, second-injury funds, catastrophe funds, and other mandatory pooling arrangements may reduce the Company's profitability.. Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in their state to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some insured parties as the result of impaired or insolvent insurance companies. Many states also have laws that established second-injury funds. 21. to provide compensation to injured employees for aggravation of a prior condition or injury which are funded by either assessments based on paid losses or premium surcharge mechanisms. In addition, as a condition to the ability to conduct business in various states, the Insurance Companies must participate in mandatory property and casualty shared-market mechanisms or pooling arrangements, which provide various types of insurance coverage to individuals or other entities that otherwise are unable to purchase that coverage from private insurers. The effect of these assessments and mandatory shared-market mechanisms or changes in them could reduce the Company's profitability in any given period or limit its ability to grow its business.. The insurance industry faces litigation risks, which, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties and/or monetary damages, including punitive damages. In addition, insurance companies incur material expenses defending litigation and their results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected if they fail to accurately project litigation expenses.. Insurance companies are subject to a variety of legal actions including breach of contract claims, tort claims, fraud and misrepresentation claims, employee benefit claims, and wage and hour claims. In addition, insurance companies incur and likely will continue to incur potential liability for claims related to the insurance industry in general and to the Company's business in particular, such as those related to allegations for failure to pay claims, termination or non-renewal of coverage, interpretation of policy language, policy sales practices, reinsurance matters, and other similar matters. Such actions can also include allegations of fraud, misrepresentation, and unfair or improper business practices and can include claims for punitive damages.. Court decisions and legislative activity may increase exposures for any of the types of claims insurance companies face. There is a risk that insurance companies could incur substantial legal fees and expenses in any of the actions companies defend in excess of amounts budgeted for defense.. The Company and the Insurance Companies are named as defendants in a number of lawsuits. Those that management believes could have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements are described more fully in \"Overview - B. Regulatory and Legal Matters\" in \"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations\" and Note 17. Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in \"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.\" Litigation, by its very nature, is unpredictable and the outcome of these cases is uncertain. The precise nature of the relief that may be sought or granted in any lawsuit is uncertain and may negatively impact the manner in which the Company conducts its business, which could materially increase the Company's legal expenses and negatively impact the results of operations. In addition, potential litigation involving new claim, coverage, and business practice issues could adversely affect the Company's business by changing the way policies are priced, extending coverage beyond its underwriting intent, or increasing the size of claims.. Risks Related to the Company's Stock. The Company is controlled by a small number of shareholders who will be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, including change of control transactions.. George Joseph and Gloria Joseph collectively own more than 50% of the Company's common stock. Accordingly, George Joseph and Gloria Joseph have the ability to exert significant influence on the actions the Company may take in the future, including change of control transactions. Certain institutional investors also each own between 5% and 15% of the Company's common stock. This concentration of ownership may conflict with the interests of the Company's other shareholders and lenders.. Future equity or debt financing may affect the market price of the Company's common stock and rights of the current shareholders, and the future exercise of options and granting of shares will result in dilution in the investment of the Company's shareholders.. The Company may raise capital in the future through the issuance and sale of its common stock or debt securities. The Company cannot predict what effect, if any, such future financing will have on the market price of its common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of its common stock in the public market or issuance of substantial amounts of debt securities could adversely affect the market price of the Company's outstanding common stock, and may make it more difficult for shareholders to sell common stock at a time and price that the shareholder deems appropriate. Furthermore, holders of some of the Company's securities may have rights, preferences, and privileges that are senior to those of the Company's current shareholders. In addition, the Company has issued and may issue options to purchase shares of its common stock as well as restricted stock units (\"RSUs\") to incentivize its executives and key employees. In the event that any options to purchase common stock are exercised or any shares of common stock are issued when the RSUs vest, shareholders will suffer dilution in their investment.. Applicable insurance laws may make it difficult to effect a change of control of the Company or the sale of any of its Insurance Companies.. 22. Before a person can acquire control of a U.S. insurance company or any holding company of a U.S. insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the DOI of the state where the insurer is domiciled. Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of the insurer or holding company, the state DOI will consider a number of factors relating to the acquirer and the transaction. These laws and regulations may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of the Company or the sale by the Company of any of its Insurance Companies, including transactions that some or all of the Company's shareholders might consider to be desirable.. Although the Company has consistently paid increasing cash dividends in the past, it may not be able to pay or continue to increase cash dividends in the future.. The Company has consistently paid cash dividends since the public offering of its common stock in November 1985 and has consistently increased the dividend per share during that time. However, future cash dividends will depend upon a variety of factors, including the Company's profitability, financial condition, capital needs, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. The Company's ability to pay dividends or continue to increase the dividend per share may also be limited by the ability of the Insurance Companies to make distributions to the Company, which may be restricted by financial, regulatory or tax constraints, and by the terms of the Company's debt instruments. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to pay dividends or increase the dividend per share even if the necessary financial and regulatory conditions are met and if sufficient cash is available for distribution."
