[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors.. Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results will vary, and may vary materially, from those anticipated, estimated, projected or expected. Among the key factors that may have a direct bearing on our business, operations or financial condition are the factors identified below:. We may be unable to successfully manage growth, particularly if accomplished through acquisitions, and the integration of acquired businesses may present significant challenges that could harm our operations.. Successful implementation of our business strategy will require that we effectively manage any associated growth. To manage growth effectively, our management will need to continue to implement changes in certain aspects of our business, to improve our information systems, infrastructure and operations to respond to increased demand, to attract and retain qualified personnel, and to develop, train, and manage an increasing number of management-level and other employees. Growth could place an increasing strain on our management, financial, product design, marketing, distribution and other resources, and we could experience operating difficulties. Any failure to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition.. 22. Table of Contents. Over the past several years, we completed a series of significant acquisitions. As we grow through acquisitions, we face the additional challenges of integrating the operations, culture, information management systems and other characteristics of the acquired entity with our own. Efforts to integrate future acquisitions may be hampered by delays, the loss of certain employees, suppliers or customers, proceedings resulting from employment terminations, culture clashes, unbudgeted costs, and other issues, which may occur at levels that are more severe or prolonged than anticipated.. We have incurred, and will likely continue to incur, significant expenses in connection with negotiating and consummating various acquisition transactions, and we may inherit significant liabilities in connection with prospective acquisitions, including regulatory, infringement, product liability, discrimination or other legal claims or issues. In addition, we may not realize competitive advantages, synergies or other benefits anticipated in connection with any such acquisition. If we do not adequately identify targets for, or manage issues related to, our future acquisitions, such acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition.. We may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property, which could harm our business and financial condition.. Our ability to remain competitive is dependent, in part, upon our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and prevent other companies from using our intellectual property. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of confidentiality and license agreements, and through patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws. However, all these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. Additionally, these measures may not prevent competitors from duplicating our products or gaining access to our proprietary information and technology. Third parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise use our intellectual property without authorization, and we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or trade secrets by consultants, vendors, former employees and current employees, despite the existence of nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, operations, or financial condition.. Third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently or by designing around our patents. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection for our intellectual property as the laws of the U.S. Further, no assurances can be given that any patent application we have filed or will file will result in a patent being issued, or that any existing or future patents will afford adequate or meaningful protection against competitors or against similar technologies. All of our patents will eventually expire and some of our patents, including patents protecting significant elements of our technology, will expire within the next several years.. Filing, prosecuting and defending our intellectual property in all countries throughout the world may be prohibitively expensive. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any such lawsuits that we might initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management's attention from our business. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. Moreover, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patent and other intellectual property protection, which makes it difficult to stop infringement. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable.. Third parties claiming that we infringe their intellectual property rights could cause us to incur significant legal or licensing expenses and prevent us from selling our products.. Our commercial success will depend in part on not infringing or violating the intellectual property rights of others. From time to time, third parties may claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights, including claims regarding patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets. We may not be aware of whether our products do or will infringe existing or future patents or the intellectual property rights of others. Because of constant technological change in the medical device industry in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that the number of these claims may grow. In addition, former employers of our former, current, or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us the confidential or proprietary information of these former employers. Any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, distract management from day-to-day operations and harm our brand or reputation, which in turn could harm our business or results of operations. If we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or redesign, our products, discontinue the use of related trademarks, technologies or designs, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. Royalty or licensing arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all and we may not be able to redesign applicable products in a way to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of others. We have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to investigate, defend and settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk.. 23. Table of Contents. The medical device industry is experiencing greater scrutiny and regulation by governmental authorities. Moreover, in October 2016, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice seeking information on our marketing and promotional practices. If governmental authorities determine that we have violated laws or regulations, including in respect of our marketing or promotional practices, our company or our employees may be subject to various penalties, including civil or criminal penalties.. Our medical devices and business activities are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. These authorities and members of Congress have been increasing their scrutiny of the medical device industry. In recent years, the U.S. Congress, Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Defense have issued subpoenas and other requests for information to medical device manufacturers, primarily related to financial arrangements with healthcare providers, regulatory compliance and product promotional practices. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subjected to a wide variety of sanctions and enforcement actions, including warning letters that require corrective action, injunctions, product seizures or recalls, suspension of product manufacturing, revocation of approvals, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs, civil fines and criminal penalties.. In October 2016, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice seeking information on certain of our marketing and promotional practices. Although we are in the process of responding to the subpoena, we may not be able to resolve this matter, or similar matters that may arise in the future, without our company or employees incurring significant fines, penalties, or other adverse civil or criminal consequences. Even if we are successful in resolving the pending matter without such consequences, we have incurred, and anticipate that we will continue to incur, substantial costs in connection with the matter. The pending matter, or other governmental proceedings, could significantly impact our reputation and divert management's attention and resources from growing our business, which in turn could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to obtain financing on reasonable terms or at all.. We anticipate that government authorities will continue to scrutinize our industry closely, and that additional regulation by government authorities may increase compliance costs, exposure to litigation and other adverse effects on our operations.. Use of our products in unapproved circumstances could expose us to liabilities.. The marketing approvals from the FDA and other regulators of certain of our products are, or are expected to be, limited to specific uses. We are prohibited from marketing or promoting any unapproved use of our product. However, physicians may use these products in ways or circumstances other than those strictly within the scope of the regulatory approval. The use of our products for unauthorized purposes could arise from our sales personnel or distributors violating our policies by providing information or recommendations about such unauthorized uses. Consequently, claims may be asserted by the FDA or other enforcement agencies that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations or have improperly promoted our products for uncleared or unapproved uses. The FDA or such other agencies could require a recall of products or allege that our promotional activities misbrand or adulterate our products or violate other legal requirements, which could result in investigations, prosecutions, fines or other civil or criminal actions.. The FDA regulatory clearance process is expensive, time-consuming and uncertain, and the failure to obtain and maintain required regulatory clearances and approvals could prevent us from commercializing our products.. Before we can introduce a new device or a new use of or a claim for a cleared device in the United States, we must generally obtain market clearance from the FDA through the 510(k) premarket notification process or through a PMA application, unless an exemption for lower-risk devices or an alternative procedure, such as a de novo classification request or a humanitarian device exemption, applies. The FDA clearance and approval processes for medical devices are expensive, uncertain and time-consuming.. If human clinical trials of a medical device are required for FDA clearance or approval and the device presents a significant risk, the sponsor of the trial must file an IDE application with the FDA prior to commencing such trials in the U.S. Submission of an IDE application does not ensure that the FDA will issue the IDE. If the IDE application is approved, there can be no assurance the FDA will determine that the data derived from the trials support the safety and effectiveness of the device or warrant the continuation of clinical trials. For clinical trials involving a device that does not present a significant risk, the sponsor is not required to obtain approval of an IDE, but the sponsor must obtain the review and approval of an institutional review board. Both significant risk and non-significant risk trials are subject to additional FDA regulations, including a requirement to obtain informed consent and reporting and recordkeeping requirements. We, the FDA, or the institutional review board, may suspend a clinical trial at any time for various reasons, including a belief that the risks to study subjects outweigh the anticipated benefits.. 24. Table of Contents. We are also required to seek FDA clearance for certain manufacturing changes, product enhancements and product line extensions, which may require new 510(k) clearance or approval of a PMA supplement. For devices marketed under an approved PMA, we must submit a PMA supplement to the FDA for review and approval prior to making a change to the device that affects the safety or effectiveness of the device, including changes to the design, manufacturing or labeling of the device. Likewise, for 510(k)-cleared devices, we must obtain new FDA 510(k) clearance when there is a major change or modification in the intended use or indications for use or a change or modification of the device that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device. In some cases, clinical data may be required to support a PMA supplement or 510(k) premarket notification for a device modification.. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make the determination regarding the need for a new 510(k) submission or a PMA supplement in the first instance, but the FDA may review the manufacturer's decisions not to seek a new 510(k) or PMA supplement. We may make changes to our cleared products without seeking additional clearances or approvals if we believe such clearances or approvals are not necessary. However, the FDA may disagree and determine that such a modified device is not substantially equivalent to the marketed device or may require additional information, including clinical data, to be submitted before a determination is made, in which case we may be required to delay the introduction and marketing of our modified products, redesign our products, conduct clinical trials to support any modifications and pay significant regulatory fines or penalties. In addition, the FDA may not approve or clear our products for the indications that are necessary or desirable for successful commercialization.. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for any product on a timely basis or at all. Further, the FDA may change its clearance and approval policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, or take other actions which may prevent or delay approval or clearance of our products under development or impact our ability to modify our currently cleared products on a timely basis. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, regulatory clearances for any product enhancements or new products we develop would result in delayed or no realization of revenue from such product enhancements or new products and in substantial additional costs, which could decrease our profitability.. In addition, we are required to continue to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once we have obtained clearance for a product. We cannot assure you that we will successfully maintain the clearances we have received or may receive in the future. In addition, our existing clearances can be revoked if any issues arise that bring into question our products' safety or effectiveness. The loss of previously received clearances or approvals, or the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could also have a material adverse effect on our business.. We rely on the proper function, availability and security of information technology systems to operate our business and a material disruption of critical information systems or a material breach in the security of our systems may adversely affect our business and customer relationships.. We rely on information technology systems (including technology from third party providers) to process, transmit, and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations, including sensitive personal information and proprietary or confidential information. We also rely on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to interact with customers and suppliers, fulfill orders and bill, collect and make payments, ship products, provide support to customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise conduct business. Our internal information technology systems, as well as those systems maintained by third-party providers, may be subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber-attacks, any of which could result in data leaks or otherwise compromise our confidential or proprietary information and disrupt our operations. Cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated and frequent, and there can be no assurance that our protective measures will prevent security breaches that could have a significant impact on our business, reputation and financial results, particularly attacks that result in our intellectual property and other confidential information being accessed or stolen. Cyber-attacks could also result in unauthorized access to our systems and products, including personal information of individuals, which could also result in actions by regulatory bodies or civil litigation. If we fail to monitor, maintain or protect our information technology systems and data integrity effectively or fail to anticipate, plan for or manage significant disruptions to these systems, we could, among other things, lose customers, be subject to fraud, breach our agreements with or duties toward customers, physicians, other health care professionals and employees, be subject to regulatory sanctions or penalties, incur expenses or lose revenues or suffer other adverse consequences. Unauthorized tampering, adulteration or interference with our products may also create issues with product functionality that could result in a loss of data, risk to patient safety, and product recalls or field actions. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition.. We are subject to export control laws, customs laws, sanctions laws and other laws governing our operations in the U.S. and other countries. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, other remedial measures and legal expenses, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 25. Table of Contents. Our global operations expose us to trade and economic sanctions and other restrictions imposed by the United States, the EU and other governments and organizations. The U.S. Departments of Justice, Commerce, State and Treasury and other federal agencies and authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal penalties they may seek to impose against corporations and individuals for violations of economic sanctions laws, export control laws, and other federal statutes and regulations, including those established by the Office of Foreign Asset Control. Under these laws and regulations, as well as other export control laws, customs laws, sanctions laws and other laws governing our operations, various government agencies may require export licenses, may seek to impose modifications to business practices, including cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries or with sanctioned persons or entities and modifications to compliance programs, which may increase compliance costs, and may subject us to fines, penalties and other sanctions. A violation of these laws or regulations could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. A significant adverse change in, or failure to comply with, governing regulations could adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition.. We have extensive global operations, which necessitate that we seek various regulatory approvals for our products in the jurisdictions where our products are sold. Different regulatory requirements for product approvals and our need to comply with different regulatory regimes could impact our business.. Substantially all of our products are \"devices,\" as defined in the FDCA, and the manufacture, distribution, record keeping, labeling and advertisement of substantially all of our products are subject to regulation by the FDA in the United States and equivalent regulatory agencies in various foreign countries in which our products are manufactured, distributed, labeled, offered or sold. Further, we are subject to regular review and periodic inspections at our facilities with respect to compliance with the FDCA, QSR, ISO standards and similar requirements of foreign countries, which may cover, among others, the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage and shipment of medical devices. Costs to comply with regulations, including, for instance, regulations for medical devices enacted by the EU in May 2017 and effective in 2020, and costs associated with remediation can be significant. Additionally, failure to comply with such requirements, or later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or our third-party manufacturers' manufacturing processes, including any failure to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection, could result in total or partial suspension of production or distribution, a regulatory agency's refusal to grant pending or future clearances or approvals for our products, withdrawal or suspension of regulatory clearances or approvals, clinical holds, warning letters or untitled letters or refusal to permit the import or export of our products.. The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity.. We have entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, swingline lender and a lender, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as sole lead arranger and sole bookrunner and the lenders who are or may become party thereto, which was amended on September 28, 2016, March 20, 2017 and December 13, 2017 (as amended, the \"Second Amended Credit Agreement\"). The Second Amended Credit Agreement contains a number of significant covenants that could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, our liquidity or our results of operations. These covenants restrict, among other things, our incurrence of indebtedness, creation of liens or pledges on our assets, mergers or similar combinations or liquidations, asset dispositions, repurchases or redemptions of equity interests or debt, issuances of equity, payment of dividends and certain distributions and entry into related party transactions.. We have pledged substantially all of our assets as collateral for the Second Amended Credit Agreement. Our breach of any covenant in the Second Amended Credit Agreement, not otherwise cured, waived or amended, could result in a default under that agreement and could trigger acceleration of the underlying obligations. Any default under the Second Amended Credit Agreement could adversely affect our ability to service our debt and to fund our planned capital expenditures and ongoing operations. The administrative agent and lenders under the Second Amended Credit Agreement have available to them the remedies typically available to lenders and secured parties, including the ability to foreclose on the collateral we have pledged. Any default under the Second Amended Credit Agreement would at a minimum harm our ability to service our debt and to fund our prospective capital expenditures and ongoing operations. It could lead to an acceleration of indebtedness and foreclosure on our assets.. As currently amended, the Second Amended Credit Agreement provides for potential borrowings of up to $525.0 million. Such increased borrowing limits may make it more difficult for us to comply with leverage ratios and other restrictive covenants in the Second Amended Credit Agreement. We may also have less cash available for operations and investments in our business, as we will be required to use additional cash to satisfy the minimum payment obligations associated with this increased indebtedness.. 26. Table of Contents. We will be required to expend significant resources for research, development, testing and regulatory approval or clearance of our products under development and these products may not be developed successfully or approved for commercial use.. Most of our products under development will require significant additional research, development, engineering and, in some cases, preclinical and clinical testing, as well as regulatory approval or clearance and a commitment of significant additional resources prior to their commercialization. It is possible that our products may not:. • be developed successfully;. • be proven safe or effective in clinical trials;. • offer therapeutic or other improvements over current treatments and products;. • meet applicable regulatory standards or receive regulatory approvals or clearances;. • be capable of production in commercial quantities at acceptable costs and in compliance with regulatory requirements;. • be successfully marketed; or. • be covered by private or public insurers.. We are currently conducting one clinical trial in an effort to obtain approval from the FDA that would enable us to expand our efforts to commercialize the QuadraSphere Microspheres. EU regulations do not currently require such applications for these classes of medical device. In order for us to obtain FDA approval to promote the use of QuadraSphere Microspheres for the purposes indicated in our clinical trial, we will need to complete the trial and submit positive clinical data to the FDA. If we cannot enroll study subjects in sufficient numbers to complete the necessary study, if there is a disruption in the supply of materials for the trial or if any other factors preclude us from completing the trial in a timely manner, we will likely not be able to complete the trial. Even if we complete the clinical trial, the FDA may require us to undertake additional testing, or the trial results may not be sufficient to obtain FDA approval for other reasons, including inconclusive or negative results of our trials or those conducted by our competitors or other third parties. Any clinical trials we undertake in the future will likely be subject to these and similar risks. If we do not obtain FDA approval or clearance of the product use claimed in a clinical trial, we will not be able to promote the subject product for the indicated treatment of the specific disease or condition in the United States.. We are subject to laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, the violation of which could adversely affect our business or financial results.. Our operations are subject to various state and federal laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and other anti-kickback laws, which prohibit any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for an item or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Violations of these fraud and abuse-related laws are punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, any of which could harm our business or financial results.. We are also subject to the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions. These laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from illegally offering things of value to any individual for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. As we continue to expand our business activities internationally, compliance with the FCPA and other anti-bribery laws presents greater challenges to our operations. If our employees or agents violate the provisions of the FCPA or other anti-bribery laws, we may incur fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition.. Healthcare reform legislation has negatively affected our financial results and may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition.. The Affordable Care Act was enacted into law in March 2010, and most of the core pieces of the Affordable Care Act are now in effect. Certain other provisions of the legislation are not yet effective. There are many programs and requirements for which the details have not yet been fully established or consequences not fully understood, and it is unclear what the full impact. 27. Table of Contents. of the legislation will be. The law imposes on medical device manufacturers a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of certain medical devices. Although this tax has been suspended until January 1, 2020, during the year ended December 31, 2015 we incurred $4.3 million related to this tax, which reduced our gross profit by 0.8%. We cannot predict whether the suspension will be continued beyond January 1, 2020. If the excise tax is not repealed or further suspended, it will likely adversely impact our future results of operations. In addition, the costs of compliance with the Affordable Care Act's reporting and disclosure requirements, frequently identified as the Sunshine Act, with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to healthcare providers may have a material, negative impact on our results of operations and our cash flows.. Additionally, the long-term viability of the Affordable Care Act, and its impact on our business and results of operations, remains uncertain. For instance, in December 2017, the United States enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which, among other things, eliminated the tax penalty for not obtaining health coverage (beginning in 2019). Additionally, members of the U.S. Congress have suggested other changes that may impact individual insurance marketplaces. These and other legislative and executive initiatives may significantly change the scope and impact of the Affordable Care Act and, in turn, the medical device industry.. We are subject to the regulations of our medical devices in foreign countries in which we sell our products and we will be required to expend significant resources for obtaining regulatory approval or clearance of our products and there may be delays and uncertainty in obtaining regulatory approval.. To be able to sell our products in foreign countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country-to-country.. The EU requires that manufacturers of medical devices obtain the right to affix the CE mark, for compliance with the Medical Device Directive (93/42/EEC), as amended, to medical devices before selling them in member countries of the EU. The CE mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable European medical device directives. In order to obtain the authorization to affix the CE mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes and products meet certain European quality standards.. In April 2017, the EU adopted the Medical Device Regulation to replace the Medical Device Directive (93/42/EEC), as amended. The Medical Device Regulation will apply after a three-year transition period and imposes stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices and grants Notified Bodies increased post-market surveillance authority.. Complying with and obtaining regulatory approval in foreign countries have caused or may cause us to experience more uncertainty, risk, expense and delay in commercializing products in certain foreign jurisdictions, which could affect our ability to obtain approvals for our products in those jurisdictions and adversely impact our net sales, market share and operating profits from our international operations.. We are dependent upon key personnel.. Our success is dependent on key management personnel, including Fred P. Lampropoulos, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Lampropoulos is not subject to any agreement prohibiting his departure, and we do not maintain key man life insurance on his life. The loss of Mr. Lampropoulos, or of certain other key management personnel, could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operations. Our success also depends on, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of key operating, manufacturing, sales and other personnel.. Our products may be subject to product liability claims.. Our products are used in connection with invasive procedures and in other medical contexts that entail an inherent risk of product liability claims. If medical personnel or their patients suffer injury or death in connection with the use of our products, whether as a result of a failure of our products to function as designed, an inappropriate design, inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or information, improper use, or for any other reason, we could be subject to lawsuits seeking significant compensatory and punitive damages. Product liability claims may be brought by individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class. We have previously faced claims by patients claiming injuries from our products. To date, these claims have not resulted in material harm to our operations or financial condition. The outcome of this type of personal injury litigation is difficult to assess or quantify. We maintain product liability insurance; however, there is no assurance that this coverage will be sufficient to satisfy any claim made against us. Moreover, any product liability claim brought against us could result in significant costs, divert our management's attention from other business matters or operations, increase our product liability insurance rates, or prevent us from securing insurance coverage in the future. As a result, any lawsuit seeking significant monetary damages may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition.. 28. Table of Contents. In addition, the occurrence of such an event or claim could result in a recall of products from the market or a safety alert relating to such products. Such a recall could result in significant costs, reduce our revenue, divert management's attention from our business, and harm our reputation.. Our products may cause or contribute to adverse medical events that we are required to report to the FDA, and if we fail to do so, we may be subject to sanctions that may materially harm our business.. Our products are subject to medical device reporting regulations, which require us to report to the FDA any incident in which our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or in which our products malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, it could likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Our obligation to report under the medical device reporting regulations is triggered on the date on which we become aware of an adverse event and the nature of the event. We may fail to report adverse events of which we become aware within the prescribed timeframe. We may also fail to recognize that we have become aware of a reportable adverse event, especially if it is not reported to us as an adverse event or if it is an adverse event that is unexpected or if the product characteristic that caused the adverse event is removed in time from our products. If we fail to comply with our medical device reporting obligations, the FDA could issue warning letters or untitled letters, take administrative actions, commence criminal prosecution, impose civil monetary penalties, revoke our device clearances, demand or initiate a product recall, seize our products, or delay the clearance of our future products.. We generally offer a limited warranty for the return of product due to defects in quality and workmanship. We attempt to estimate our potential liability for future product returns and establish reserves on our financial statements in amounts that we believe will be sufficient to address our warranty obligations; however, our actual liability for product returns may significantly exceed the amount of our reserves. If we underestimate our potential liability for future product returns, or if unanticipated events result in returns that exceed our historical experience, our financial condition and operating results could be materially harmed.. We lack direct sales and marketing capabilities in many countries, and are wholly dependent on our distributors for the commercialization of our products in these countries. If we are unable to maintain or establish sales capabilities on our own or through third parties, we may not be able to commercialize any of our products in those countries.. We have no or limited direct sales or marketing capabilities in some of the regions and countries in which our products are sold, including, among others, China, Japan, Russia and India. We have entered into distribution agreements with third parties to market and sell our products in those countries in which we do not have a direct sales force and in those countries in which we utilize a \"modified direct\" sales approach. If we are unable to maintain or enter into such distribution arrangements on acceptable terms, or at all, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products in certain countries. Moreover, to the extent that we enter into distribution arrangements with other companies, our revenues, if any, will depend on the terms of any such arrangements and the efforts of others. These efforts may turn out not to be sufficient and our third-party distributors may not effectively sell our products. In addition, although our contract terms require our distributors to comply with all applicable laws regarding the sale of our products, including anti-competition, anti-corruption, anti-money laundering and sanctions laws, we may not be able to ensure proper compliance. If our distributors fail to effectively market and sell our products in full compliance with applicable laws, our results of operations and business could be impacted.. Our employees, independent contractors, consultants, manufacturers and distributors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements.. We are exposed to the risk that our employees, independent contractors, consultants, manufacturers and distributors may engage in fraudulent conduct or other illegal activity. Misconduct by these parties could include intentional, reckless or negligent conduct or disclosure of unauthorized activities to us that violates healthcare laws and regulations of the FDA and other federal, state and international authorities, manufacturing standards, and laws that require the true, complete and accurate reporting of financial information or data. We have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics, and a global anti-corruption policy, but it is not always possible to identify and deter misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties.. The size of the market for our product groups has not been established with precision and may be smaller than we estimate.. Our estimates of the annual total addressable market for our cardiac intervention, peripheral intervention, interventional oncology and spine, and cardiovascular and critical care and endoscopy product groups are based on a number of internal and. 29. Table of Contents. third-party estimates, including published industry data. While we believe these factors have historically provided and may continue to provide us with effective tools in estimating the total market for our products, these estimates may not be correct and the conditions supporting our estimates may change at any time, thereby reducing the predictive accuracy of the underlying factors we consider in our analysis. As a result, our estimates of the annual total addressable market for our products may prove to be incorrect. If the actual number of patients who would benefit from our products and the annual total addressable market for our products is smaller than we have estimated, our sales growth may be impaired and our business adversely impacted. Even if the markets are as large as projected, there is no assurance that our market share or aggregate sales will increase as a result of the size of addressable markets.. Consolidation in the healthcare industry, group purchasing organizations or public procurement policies could lead to demands for price concessions, which may harm our ability to sell our products at prices necessary to support our current business strategies.. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade, which has resulted in or led to numerous cost reform initiatives by legislators, regulators and third-party payers. Cost reform has triggered a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry to aggregate purchasing power, which may create more requests for pricing concessions in the future. Additionally, group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks, public procurement policies and large single accounts may continue to use their market power to consolidate purchasing decisions for hospitals and healthcare service providers. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party coverage and reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to change the healthcare industry worldwide, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers, which may exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products.. We may be unable to compete in our markets, particularly if there is a significant change in relevant practices or technology.. The markets in which our products compete are highly competitive. We face competition from many companies which are larger, better established, have greater financial, technical and other resources and possess a greater market presence than we do. Such resources and market presence may enable our competitors to more effectively market competing products or to market competing products at reduced prices in order to gain market share.. In addition, our ability to compete successfully is dependent, in part, upon our response to changes in technology and upon our efforts to develop and market new products which achieve significant market acceptance. Competing companies with substantially greater resources than us are actively engaged in research and development of new methods, treatments, drugs, and procedures to treat or prevent cardiovascular disease that could limit the market for our products and eventually make some of our products obsolete. A reduction in the demand for a significant number of our products, or a few key products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition.. Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and international laws and regulation regarding privacy and data protection. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, penalties, increased cost of operations, or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business.. The U.S. and many other countries in which we conduct our operations have adopted laws and regulations protecting certain data, including medical and personal data, and requiring data holders and controllers to implement administrative, logical and technical controls and procedures. In addition, regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of additional proposals concerning data protection. These laws and regulations have been, and may continue to be, inconsistent with each other, requiring different approaches in different jurisdictions. In addition, the interpretation and application of medical and personal data protection laws in the U.S., Europe, China and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. These legislative and regulatory proposals, if adopted, and such interpretations could, in addition to the possibility of fines, result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.. Recent legal developments in Europe have created compliance uncertainty regarding certain transfers of personal data from the European Union (\"EU\") to the United States and other non-EU jurisdictions. For example, the GDPR, scheduled to come into application in the EU on May 25, 2018, will apply to all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or related to products and services that we offer to EU users. The GDPR will create a range of new compliance obligations, which could cause us to change our business practices, and will significantly increase financial penalties for noncompliance (including possible fines of up to 4% of global annual turnover for the preceding financial year or \20020 million (whichever is higher) for the most serious infringements).. 30. Table of Contents. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may negatively impact our financial results.. As our operations have grown outside the United States, we have also become increasingly subject to market risk relating to foreign currency. Those fluctuations could have a negative impact on our margins and financial results. During 2017, 2016 and 2015, the exchange rate between all applicable foreign currencies and the U.S. Dollar resulted in an increase in net sales of approximately $0.6 million, a decrease of approximately $4.9 million and a decrease of approximately $11.3 million, respectively.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, approximately $215.8 million, or 29.7%, of our net sales were denominated in foreign currencies, with our Euro-denominated sales representing our largest single currency risk. If the rate of exchange between foreign currencies declines against the U.S. Dollar, we may not be able to increase the prices we charge our customers for products whose prices are denominated in those respective foreign currencies. Furthermore, we may be unable or elect not to enter into hedging transactions which could mitigate the effect of declining exchange rates. As a result, if the rate of exchange between foreign currencies declines against the U.S. Dollar, our financial results may be negatively impacted.. Termination or interruption of, or a failure to monitor, our supply relationships and increases in the price of our component parts, finished products, third-party services or raw materials, particularly petroleum-based products, could have an adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition.. We rely on raw materials, component parts, finished products and third-party services in connection with our business. For example, substantially all of our products are sterilized by only a few different entities. Additionally, many of our products have components that are manufactured using resins, plastics and other petroleum-based materials which are available from a limited number of suppliers. We are experiencing a growing trend among suppliers of polymer resins to refuse to supply resin to the medical device manufacturers or to require such manufacturers to assume additional risks due to the potential for product liability claims. Additionally, there is no assurance that crude oil supplies will be uninterrupted or that petroleum-based manufacturing materials will be available for purchase in the future. Any interruption to the supply of polymers or petroleum-based resins could have an adverse effect on our ability to produce, or on the cost to produce, our products.. The availability and price of these materials is affected by a variety of factors beyond our control, including the willingness of suppliers to sell into the medical device industry, changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, labor costs, fuel-related transportation costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates and political uncertainty around the world. Our suppliers may pass some of their cost increases on to us, and if such increased costs are sustained or increase further, our suppliers may pass further cost increases on to us. In addition to the effect on resin prices, transportation costs generally increase based on the effect of higher crude oil prices, and these increased transportation costs may be passed on to us.. We are also subject to CSR laws and regulations which require us to monitor the labor standards in our supply chain, including the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act, the UK Modern Slavery Act, and U.S. Federal Acquisition Regulations regarding Combating Trafficking in Persons. These CSR labor laws and regulations may impose additional processes and supplier management systems and have led certain key customers to impose additional requirements on medical device companies, including audits, as a prerequisite to selling products to such customers, which could result in increased costs for our products, the termination or suspension of certain suppliers, and reductions in our margins and profitability.. Our ability to recover such increased costs may depend upon our ability to raise prices on our products. Due to the highly competitive nature of the healthcare industry and the cost-containment efforts of our customers and third-party payers, we may be unable to pass along cost increases through higher prices. If we are unable to fully recover these costs through price increases or offset these increases through cost reductions or we experience terminations or interruption of our relationships with our suppliers we could experience lower margins and profitability, and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially harmed.. We may be unable to accurately forecast customer demand for our products and manage our inventory.. To ensure adequate supply, we must forecast our inventory needs and place orders with our suppliers based on estimates of future demand for particular products. Our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products could be negatively affected by many factors, including our failure to accurately manage our expansion strategy and customer acceptance of new products, product introductions by our competitors, an increase or decrease in customer demand for our products or for products of our competitors, unanticipated changes in general market conditions or regulatory matters and weakening of economic conditions or consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs or write-offs, which would impact our gross margin. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand for our products,. 31. Table of Contents. our manufacturing facilities may not be able to deliver products to meet our order requirements, which could damage our reputation and customer relationships.. International and national economic and industry conditions constantly change, and could harm our business and results of operations.. Our business and our results of operation are affected by many changing economic, industry and other conditions beyond our control, including, for instance, potential changes to the economic relationship between the United States and Mexico, China, and other countries in which we operate as a result of the new U.S. administration, and other changes and developments that we cannot anticipate, each of which could harm our business and results of operations. Actual or potential changes in international, national, regional and local economic, business and financial conditions, including recession, inflation and trade protection measures, may negatively affect consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns or demographic trends, any of which could harm our business or results of operations. Our customers may experience financial difficulties or be unable to borrow money to fund their operations, which may harm their ability or decision to purchase or pay for our products. Disruptions in the credit markets have previously resulted, and could again result, in volatility, decreased liquidity, widening of credit spreads, and reduced availability of financing. There can be no assurance that future financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. An inability to obtain necessary additional financing on acceptable terms may have an adverse impact on us and on our ability to implement our business plan.. In particular, the new U.S. Administration has called for and may introduce substantial changes to fiscal, healthcare, trade and tax policies and legislation, which may include comprehensive tax reform and changes to existing trade agreements, including, but not limited to, the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\"). Such changes may have a significant impact on our operations and financial results. In particular, the potential enactment of tariffs on goods imported into the U.S., including but not limited to, goods imported from Mexico where we manufacture many of our products that we sell internationally, could adversely affect our gross profit margins. If enacted, any legislation by the U.S. federal government that restricts trade, such as tariffs, trade barriers, and other protectionist or retaliatory measures taken by governments in Europe, Asia, and other regions, could adversely impact our ability to sell products and services internationally. We cannot predict the impact, if any, of these changes to our business. If economic conditions worsen or fail to improve, changes in legislation impact the relationship between the U.S. and Mexico and other countries in which we operate or the continuity of NAFTA and other trade agreements, or new legislation is passed related to the healthcare system, fiscal or tax policies, customer demand may not materialize to the levels we require to achieve our anticipated financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the EU, commonly referred to as \"Brexit\". As a result of the referendum, negotiations are under way to determine the future terms of the United Kingdom's relationship with the EU, including the terms of trade. As it stands, the United Kingdom will depart the EU on March 30, 2019 but the terms of its withdrawal and the nature of its future relationship with the EU are still being decided. In December 2017, EU leaders announced an agreement to begin the next phase of negotiations, with talks on a transition period after March 2019 to begin in early 2018 and discussions on the future UK-EU relationship, including trade and security, to begin in March 2018. It is possible that there will be greater restrictions on the movement of goods and people between the United Kingdom and the EU countries and increased regulatory complexities, which could affect our ability to sell products in certain EU countries and in the United Kingdom. Brexit could adversely affect European and worldwide economic and market conditions and could further contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the British pound and Euro, to which we have significant exposure. In addition, other European countries may seek to conduct referenda with respect to continuing membership with the EU. The uncertainties surrounding Brexit are such that we do not know to what extent such changes will impact our business.. The above developments, and others that we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, operations and financial results.. We depend on generating sufficient cash flow to fund our debt obligations, capital expenditures, and ongoing operations.. We are dependent on our cash on hand and free cash flow to fund our debt obligations, capital expenditures and ongoing operations. Our ability to service our debt and to fund our planned capital expenditures and ongoing operations will depend on our ability to continue to generate cash flow. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or we are unable to access additional liquidity sources, we may not be able to service or repay our debt, operate our business, respond to competitive challenges, or fund our other liquidity and capital needs.. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from a few products and medical procedures.. 32. Table of Contents. A significant portion of our revenues is attributable to sales of our inflation devices. During the year ended December 31, 2017, sales of our inflation devices (including our Big60® device sold within our endoscopy segment and kits and packs which include inflation devices, but also include other products) accounted for approximately 11.4% of our net sales. Any material decline in market demand, or change in OEM supplier preference, for our inflation devices could have an adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition.. In addition, the products that have accounted for a majority of our historical revenues are designed for use in connection with a few related medical procedures, including angioplasty, stent placement procedures, and spinal procedures. If subsequent developments in medical technology or drug therapy make such procedures obsolete, or alter the methodology of such procedures so as to eliminate the usefulness of our products, we may experience a material decrease in demand for our products and experience deteriorating financial performance.. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile.. The market price of our common stock has at times been, and may in the future be, volatile for various reasons, including those discussed in these risks factors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. Other events that could cause volatility in our stock, include without limitation, variances in our financial results; analysts' and other projections or recommendations regarding our common stock specifically or medical technology stocks generally; any restatement of our financial statements or any investigation of us by the SEC, the FDA or another regulatory authority; or a decline, or rise, of stock prices in the capital markets generally.. We are subject to work stoppage, transportation, severe weather, natural disasters and related risks.. We manufacture products at various locations in the United States and foreign countries and sell our products worldwide. We depend on third-party transportation companies to deliver supplies necessary to manufacture our products from vendors to our various facilities and to move our products to customers, operating divisions, and other subsidiaries located worldwide. Our manufacturing operations, and the operations of the transportation companies on which we depend, may be harmed by natural disasters or significant human events, such as a war, civil unrest, terrorist attack, riot, strike, slowdown, or similar events. Any disruption in our manufacturing or transportation could materially harm our ability to meet customer demands or our operations.. Furthermore, our manufacturing operations could be affected by many other factors beyond our control, including severe weather conditions and natural disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes and tornadoes. These conditions could cause substantial damage to our facilities, interrupt our production and disrupt our ability to deliver products to our customers.. Fluctuations in our effective tax rate may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operation.. We are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. In preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of these jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate may, however, differ from the estimated amount due to numerous factors, including a change in the mix of our profitability from country to country and changes in tax laws. Relevant authorities may also disagree with tax positions we have taken and assess further taxes. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive federal tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"TCJA\"). The TCJA makes changes to the corporate tax rate, business-related deductions and taxation of foreign earnings, among others, that will generally be effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. These changes could have a material impact on the value of our U.S. deferred tax assets, result in significant one-time charges in the current or future taxable years and increase our future U.S. tax expense. We continue to evaluate the TCJA and its requirements, as well as its application to our business and its impact on our effective tax rate. At this stage, it is unclear how many U.S. states will incorporate these federal law changes, or portions thereof, into their tax codes. The implementation by us of new practices and processes designed to comply with, and benefit from, the TCJA and its rules and regulations could require us to make substantial changes to our business practices, allocate additional resources, and increase our costs, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, further changes in the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise, including as a result of recommendations issued by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, or the OECD, which could, if implemented, result in substantial changes to numerous long-standing tax positions and principles. These contemplated changes, to the extent adopted by OECD members or other countries, could increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. Any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation.. 33. Table of Contents. Limits on reimbursement imposed by governmental and other programs may adversely affect our business and results of operation.. We sell our products to hospitals and other healthcare providers around the world that typically receive reimbursement for the services provided to patients from third-party payers such as government programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S.) and private insurance programs. The ability of our customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for the cost of our products from governmental and private third-party payers is critical to our business. Limits on reimbursement imposed by such programs may adversely affect the ability of hospitals and others to purchase our products, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. Third-party payers, whether foreign or domestic, or governmental or commercial, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs. In general, a third-party payer covers a medical procedure only when the plan administrator is satisfied that the product or procedure is reasonable and necessary to the patient's treatment; however, the cost-effectiveness of the treatment may also be a condition. In addition, in the United States, no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for procedures using our products exists among third-party payers. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement for procedures using our products can differ significantly from payer to payer. In addition, payers continually review new and existing technologies for possible coverage and can, without notice, deny or reverse coverage or alter pre-authorization requirements for new or existing products and procedures. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in any efforts we may potentially undertake to reverse such non-coverage decisions. If we are not successful in reversing non-coverage policies, or if third-party payers that currently cover or reimburse certain procedures reverse or limit their coverage of such procedures in the future, or if other third-party payers issue similar policies, our business could be adversely impacted.. Further, we believe that future coverage and reimbursement may be subject to increased restrictions, such as additional preauthorization requirements, both in the United States and in international markets. Third-party coverage and reimbursement for procedures using our products or any of our products in development for which we may receive regulatory approval may not be available or adequate in either the United States or international markets, which could have an adverse impact on our business.. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could affect our business, operations or financial condition.. We manufacture and assemble certain products that require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to various national, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, health and safety. While the cost of compliance with such laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations historically, compliance with future regulations may require additional capital investments. Additionally, because we use hazardous and other regulated materials in our manufacturing processes, we are subject to certain risks of future liabilities, lawsuits and claims resulting from any substances we manufacture, dispose of or release. Any accidental release may have an adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. We cannot predict what additional environmental, health and safety legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations, capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations by government agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition, and could require substantial expenditures."
