[1] "Item 1A.    Risk Factors.. Although risk factors are described elsewhere in this Form 10-K together with the Disclosures Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, the following is a summary of the principal risks associated with an investment in the Trust's units.. Oil and natural gas prices fluctuate due to a number of factors, and lower prices will reduce net proceeds available to the Trust and distributions to Trust unitholders.. Net proceeds and the Trust's quarterly distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of natural gas and a material decrease in such prices could reduce the amount of Trust distributions. Natural gas prices can fluctuate widely on a month-to-month basis in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the control of the Trust and the Working Interest Owners. Factors that contribute to price fluctuation include, among others:. <U+0095> political conditions worldwide, in particular political disruption, war or other armed conflicts in oil producing regions;     <U+0095> worldwide economic conditions;    <U+0095> weather conditions;    <U+0095> the supply and price of foreign natural gas;    <U+0095> the level of consumer demand;    <U+0095> the price and availability of alternative fuels;    <U+0095> the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities; and    <U+0095> the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures.. Moreover, government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas transportation, regulation of greenhouse gas and other emissions associated with fossil fuel combustion, and price controls, can affect product prices in the long term.. Crude oil prices have been volatile the last several years and, since the second half of 2014 have declined substantially from historic highs and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. In 2017, crude oil prices per Bbl ranged from a high of approximately $60.46 to a low of approximately $42.48. The NYMEX crude oil spot prices per Bbl were $60.46 and $53.75 as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 respectively. The Trust cannot predict the timing or the duration of any economic cycle and, depending on the prices realized, the financial condition of the Trust could be materially adversely affected. When natural gas prices decline, the Trust is affected in two ways. First, net royalties are reduced. Second, exploration and development activity on the underlying properties may decline as some projects may become uneconomic and are either delayed or eliminated. The volatility of energy prices reduces the predictability of future cash distributions to unitholders. Substantially all of the natural gas and natural gas liquids produced from the Royalty Properties are being sold under short-term or multi-month contracts at market clearing prices or on the spot market.. Any additional decreases in prices of natural gas may materially and adversely affect our cash generated from operations, results of operations and reduce net proceeds available to the Trust and distributions to Trust unitholders.. During the eight years prior to December 31, 2017, Henry Hub natural gas prices have ranged from a high of $8.15 per MMBtu in 2014 to a low of $1.49 per MMBtu in 2016. On December 31, 2017, the Henry Hub Natural Gas Spot Price was $3.69 per MMBtu. The reduction in prices has been caused by many factors, including increases in natural gas production and reserves from unconventional. 19. Table of Contents. (shale) reservoirs, without an offsetting increase in demand. The expected increase in natural gas production could cause the prices for natural gas to remain at current levels or fall to lower levels. If prices for natural gas continue to remain depressed for lengthy periods, we may be required to write down the value of our oil and gas properties. In addition, sustained low prices for gas will negatively impact the value of our estimated reserves and reduce net proceeds and the amount of cash we would otherwise have available to pay cash distributions to unitholders.. Increased production and development costs for the Royalty will result in decreased Trust distributions.. Production and development costs attributable to the Royalty are deducted in the calculation of the Trust's share of net proceeds. Production and development costs are impacted by increases in commodity prices both directly, through commodity-price dependent costs such as electricity, and indirectly, as a result of demand-driven increases in costs of oil field goods and services. Accordingly, higher or lower production and development costs, without concurrent increases in revenues, directly decrease or increase the amount received by the Trust for the Royalty.. If development and production costs of the Royalty exceed the proceeds of production from the Royalty Properties, the Trust will not receive net proceeds for those properties until future proceeds from production exceed the total of the excess costs plus accrued interest during the deficit period. Development activities may not generate sufficient additional revenue to repay the costs. Accordingly, there may not be sufficient net proceeds to make a particular distribution.. The Trust has established a cash reserve for contingent liabilities and to pay expenses in accordance with the Trust Indenture, which would reduce Net Proceeds available to the Trust and distributions to Trust unitholders.. The Trust's source of capital is the Royalty income received from its share of the net proceeds from the Royalty Properties. Pursuant to the Trust Indenture, the Trust may establish a cash reserve through the withholding of cash for contingent liabilities and to pay expenses. In 2011, the Trustee established a cash reserve for contingent liabilities and expenses in accordance with the Trust Indenture and withheld approximately $83,333 per monthly distribution amount, or up to $250,000 per quarter, until the cash reserve was $1.0 million, which reduced net proceeds available to the Trust and distributions to Trust unitholders. For more information, see \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources\" under Item 7 of this Form 10-K.. Trust reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate, which could cause both estimated reserves and estimated future revenues to be too high or too low.. The value of the units of beneficial interest of the Trust depends upon, among other things, the amount of reserves attributable to the Royalty and the estimated future value of the reserves. Estimating reserves is inherently uncertain. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures for the underlying properties will vary from estimates and those variations could be material. Petroleum engineers consider many factors and make assumptions in estimating reserves. Those factors and assumptions include:. <U+0095> historical production from the area compared with production rates from similar producing areas;    <U+0095> the assumed effect of governmental regulation;    <U+0095> assumptions about future commodity prices, production and development costs, severance and excise taxes, and capital expenditures;     <U+0095> the availability of enhanced recovery techniques; and. 20. Table of Contents. <U+0095> relationships with landowners, working interest partners, pipeline companies and others.. Changes in these factors and assumptions can materially change reserve estimates and future net revenue estimates.. The reserve quantities attributable to the Royalty and revenues are based on estimates of reserves and revenues for the underlying properties. The method of allocating a portion of those reserves to the Trust is further complicated because the Trust holds an interest in the Royalty and does not own a specific percentage of the natural gas reserves. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures for the underlying properties, and therefore actual net proceeds payable to the Trust, will vary from estimates and those variations could be material. Results of drilling, testing and production after the date of those estimates may require substantial downward revisions or write-off of reserves.. Operating risks for the Working Interest Owners' interests in the Royalty Properties can adversely affect Trust distributions.. There are operational risks and hazards associated with the production and transportation of natural gas, including without limitation natural disasters, blowouts, explosions, fires, leakage of natural gas, releases of other hazardous materials, mechanical failures, cratering and pollution. Any of these or similar occurrences could result in the interruption or cessation of operations, personal injury or loss of life, property damage, damage to productive formations or equipment, or damage to the environment or natural resources, and associated cleanup obligations. The occurrence of drilling, production or transportation accidents and other natural disasters at any of the Royalty Properties will reduce Trust distributions by the amount of uninsured costs. These occurrences include blowouts, cratering, explosives and other environmental damage that may result in personal injuries, property damage, and damage to productive formations or equipment and environmental damages. Any uninsured costs would be deducted as a production cost in calculating net proceeds payable to the Trust.. Most of the gas produced in the San Juan Basin is transported on one of only two major pipelines in the area, and transportation of this gas is generally controlled by a small number of distribution companies. Accordingly, any disruptions to transportation lines or increases in transportation costs for production from these properties could also affect the Trust.. Further, the present value of future net cash flows from proved reserves may not be the current market value of estimated natural gas and oil reserves attributable to the Royalty. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves on the 12-month average oil and gas index prices, calculated as the un-weighted arithmetic average for the first-day-of-the-month price for each month and costs in effect on the date of the estimate, holding the prices and costs constant throughout the life of the properties. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the net present value estimate, and future net present value estimates using then current prices and costs may be significantly less than the current estimate. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting requirements in compliance with the FASB in Accounting Standards Codification 932 may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas and oil industry in general.. Terrorism and continued hostilities in the Middle East could decrease Trust distributions or the market price of the units of beneficial interest of the Trust.. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign, as well as military or other actions taken in response, cause instability in the global financial and energy markets. Terrorism and sustained military campaigns could adversely affect Trust distributions or the market price of the units in unpredictable ways, including through the disruption of fuel supplies and markets, increased volatility in natural gas prices, or the possibility that the infrastructure on which the operators. 21. Table of Contents. developing the underlying properties rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terror.. The Working Interest Owners are subject to extensive governmental regulation.. Oil and gas operations have been, and in the future will be, affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations and other political developments, such as price or gathering rate controls and environmental protection regulations. These regulations and changes in regulations could have a material adverse effect on Royalty income payable to the Trust.. The Working Interest Owners' operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that may expose the Working Interest Owners to penalties, damages or costs of remediation or compliance which could adversely affect Trust distributions.. The Working Interest Owners' operations are subject to federal, regional, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of natural resources and the environment, health and safety aspects of oil and gas operations and waste management, including the transportation and disposal of waste and other materials. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations on such operations, including the acquisition of permits to conduct regulated activities, the incurrence of capital expenditures to mitigate or prevent releases of materials from facilities, the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations and the application of specific health and safety criteria addressing worker protection. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in restrictions or orders suspending well operations, the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the revocation of permits and the issuance of corrective action orders.. There is inherent risk of environmental costs and liabilities in the oil and gas business as a result of the handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and oilfield and industrial wastes, air emissions and wastewater discharges related to current operations as well as historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Some environmental laws and regulations may impose strict liability, which means that in some situations, the Working Interest Owners could be exposed to liability as a result of conduct that was without fault or lawful at the time it occurred or as a result of the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Clean-up costs and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and costs associated with changes in environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on Trust distributions.. Laws protecting the environment generally have become more stringent over time and are expected to continue to do so, which could lead to material increases in costs for future environmental compliance and remediation. The modification or interpretation of existing laws or regulations, or the adoption of new laws or regulations, could curtail exploratory or developmental drilling for oil and natural gas. The Working Interest Owners may not be able to recover some or any of such costs of compliance with these laws and regulations from insurance.. Please read \"Business - Regulation and Prices - Environmental Matters\" under Item 1 of this Form 10-K for more information on the environmental laws and government regulations that may be applicable to the Working Interest Owners' operations.. Physical effects of climatic change have the potential to damage the facilities of the Working Interest Owners, disrupt production activities on the Royalty Properties, and cause the Working Interest Owners to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects and can adversely affect Trust distributions as a result.. Scientific studies and government reports, such as those published by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change established by the United Nations and World Meteorological Organization indicate that climate change could have global, regional or local effects on the severity of weather (including. 22. Table of Contents. hurricanes, floods and droughts), sea levels, arability of farmland, and water availability and quality, including predicted effects on areas in which the Royalty Properties are located. If such effects were to occur, exploration and production operations of the Royalty Properties have the potential to be adversely affected. Potential adverse effects could include damages to the facilities of the Working Interest Owners or disruption of production activities associated with weather related events, scale-backs in operations on the Royalty Properties due to the threat of such climatic effects, and increases in costs of operation potentially arising from such climatic effects, less efficient or non-routine operating practices necessitated by climatic effects or increased costs for insurance coverage. The Working Interest Owners may not be able to recover through insurance some or any of the damages, losses or costs that may result from potential physical effects of climate change and can adversely affect Trust distributions as a result.. The Trustee relies entirely on reserve estimates and related information prepared by DeGolyer and McNaughton based on information provided by the Working Interest Owners. While the Trustee has no reason to believe the reserve estimates included in this report are not accurate, to the extent additional information exists that could affect their reserve estimates, the estimated reserves in these reports could also be too low.. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting or regulating emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and could adversely affect Trust distributions.. The EPA has adopted various regulations under the federal Clean Air Act addressing emissions of greenhouse gases that may affect the oil and gas industry, including mandatory reporting and emission reduction. Such changes will affect state air permitting programs in states that administer the federal Clean Air Act under a delegation of authority, including states in which the Royalty Properties are located. Some states have also indicated an intent to regulate or impose restrictions or costs on greenhouse gas emissions or fossil fuels. The adoption and implementation of any international treaty or of any federal or state legislation or regulations imposing restrictions on emissions of greenhouse gases could require the Working Interest Owners to incur costs to comply with such requirements and possibly require the reduction or limitation of emissions of greenhouse gases associated with the Working Interest Owners' operations or could impose costs on other sources of emissions within the industrial or energy sectors. Such legislation or regulations could adversely affect demand for the production of oil and natural gas and increase operating costs by requiring additional expenditures to operate and maintain equipment and facilities, inventory emissions, install emissions controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes and fees relating to emissions, which could adversely affect Trust distributions. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases may produce changes in climate or weather, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, drought and other climatic events, which if any such effects were to occur, could have adverse physical effects on the Working Interest Owners' operations or physical assets.. Please read \"Business - Regulation and Prices - Environmental Matters\" under Item 1 of this Form 10-K for more information on the environmental laws and government regulations that may be applicable to the Working Interest Owners' operations.. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays on the Royalty properties in which the Trust holds an interest.. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process in the completion of unconventional natural gas wells in shale and coal formations, as well as tight conventional formations including many of those Royalty properties in which the Trust holds an interest. This process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. Some states have adopted and others are considering legislation to restrict hydraulic. 23. Table of Contents. fracturing. Several states including those where Royalty properties are located have adopted legislation requiring the public disclosure of hydraulic fracturing chemicals, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, hydraulic fracturing requires large amounts of water. This water, along with any produced water, is often sent to injection wells for disposal. This activity has been associated with earthquakes and some states, particularly Oklahoma, have limited injection well activity. Any additional level of regulation could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business and required disclosure without protection for trade secret or proprietary products could discourage service companies from using such products and as a result impact the degree to which some oil and gas wells may be efficiently and economically completed or brought into production.. Trust unitholders and the Trustee have no control over the operation or development of the Royalty Properties and have little influence over operation or development.. Neither the Trustee nor the unitholders can influence or control the operation or future development of the underlying properties. The Royalty Properties are owned by the Working Interest Owners, who are independent from the Trust. The Working Interest Owners manage the underlying properties and handle receipt and payment of funds relating to the Royalty Properties and payments to the Trust for the Royalty. The failure of an operator to conduct its operations, discharge its obligations, deal with regulatory agencies or comply with laws, rules and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, in a proper manner could have an adverse effect on the net proceeds payable to the Trust.. The Working Interest Owners are under no obligation to continue operating the properties. Neither the Trustee nor the unitholders have the right to replace an operator.. The Trustee relies upon the working interests owners for information regarding the Royalty Properties.. The Trustee relies on the Working Interest Owners for information regarding the Royalty Properties. The Working Interest Owners control (i) historical operating data and estimates, including production volumes, marketing of products, operating and capital expenditures, environmental and other liabilities, effects of regulatory changes and the number of producing wells and acreage, (ii) plans for future operating and capital expenditures, (iii) geological data relating to reserves, as well as related projections regarding production, operating expenses and capital expenses used in connection with the preparation of the reserve report, (iv) forward-looking information and estimates relating to production and drilling plans and (v) information regarding the Royalty Properties responsive to litigation claims. While the Trustee requests material information for use in periodic reports as part of its disclosure controls and procedures, the Trustee does not control this information and relies entirely on the Working Interest Owners to provide accurate and timely information when requested for use in the Trust's periodic reports. Information regarding operations has been subject to errors and adjustments in the past. Accordingly, the Trustee cannot assure unitholders that other errors or adjustments by the Working Interest Owners, whether historical or future, will not affect Royalty income and distributions by the Trust.. Under the terms of the Trust Indenture, the Trustee is entitled to rely, and in fact relies, on certain experts in good faith. This reliance includes the use of an independent petroleum engineering consultant to prepare estimates of net proved reserves attributable to the Trust. This independent petroleum engineering consultant in turn relies on information provided to it by the Working Interest Owners. While the Trustee has no reason to believe its reliance on experts is unreasonable, this reliance. 24. Table of Contents. on experts and limited access to information may be viewed as a weakness as compared to the management and oversight of entity forms other than trusts.. The owner of any Royalty Property may abandon any property, terminating the related Royalty.. The Working Interest Owners may at any time transfer all or part of the Royalty Property to another unrelated third party. Unitholders are not entitled to vote on any transfer, and the Trust will not receive any proceeds of any such transfer. Following any transfer, the Royalty Properties will continue to be subject to the Royalty, but the net proceeds from the transferred property would be calculated separately and paid by the transferee. The transferee would be responsible for all of the obligations relating to calculating, reporting and paying to the Trust the Royalty on the transferred portion of the Royalty Properties, and the current owner of the Royalty Properties would have no continuing obligation to the Trust for those properties.. The Working Interest Owners or any transferee may abandon any well or property if it reasonably believes that the well or property can no longer produce in commercially economic quantities. This could result in termination of the Royalty relating to the abandoned well.. The Royalty can be sold and the Trust can be terminated.. The Trust will be terminated and the Trustee must sell the Royalty if holders of a majority of the units of beneficial interest of the Trust approve the sale or vote to terminate the Trust, or if the Trust's royalty income for each of two successive years is less than $250,000 per year. Following any such termination and liquidation, the net proceeds of any sale will be distributed to the unitholders and unitholders will receive no further distributions from the Trust. We cannot assure you that any such sale will be on terms acceptable to all unitholders.. Trust assets are depleting assets and, if the Working Interest Owners or other operators of the Royalty Properties do not perform additional development projects, the assets may deplete faster than expected.. The net proceeds payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets. Accordingly, the portion of the distributions to unitholders attributable to depletion may be considered a return of capital. The reduction in proved reserve quantities is a common measure of depletion. Future maintenance and development projects on the Royalty Properties will affect the quantity of proved reserves. The timing and size of these projects will depend on the market prices of natural gas. If operators of the Royalty Properties do not implement additional maintenance and development projects, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently expected by the Trust. For federal income tax purposes, depletion is reflected as a deduction. Please see the section entitled \"Business - Description of the Units - Federal Income Tax Matters\" under Item 1 of this Form 10-K.. Because the net proceeds payable to the Trust are derived from the sale of depleting assets, the portion of distributions to unitholders attributable to depletion may be considered a return of capital as opposed to a return on investment. Distributions that are a return of capital will ultimately diminish the depletion tax benefits available to the Trust unitholders, which could reduce the market value of the Trust units over time. Eventually, properties underlying the Trust's Royalty will cease to produce in commercial quantities and the Trust will, therefore, cease to receive any distributions of net proceeds therefrom.. Unitholders have limited voting rights.. Voting rights as a unitholder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of unitholders or for an annual or other periodic re-election of the Trustee. Additionally, Trust unitholders have no voting rights in any. 25. Table of Contents. of the Working Interest Owners. Unlike corporations which are generally governed by boards of directors elected by their equity holders, the Trust is administered by a corporate Trustee in accordance with the Trust Indenture and other organizational documents. The Trustee has extremely limited discretion in its administration of the Trust.. Unitholders have limited ability to enforce the Trust's rights against the current or future owners of the Royalty Properties.. The Trust Agreement and related trust law permit the Trustees and the Trust to sue the Working Interest Owners to compel them to fulfill the terms of the Conveyance of the Royalty. If the Trustee does not take appropriate action to enforce provisions of the Conveyance, the recourse of a unitholder would likely be limited to bringing a lawsuit against the Trustee to compel the Trustee to take specified actions. Unitholders probably would not be able to sue the Working Interest Owners directly.. The limited liability of the Trust unitholders is uncertain.. The Trust unitholders are not protected from the liabilities of the Trust to the same extent that a shareholder would be protected from a corporation's liabilities. The structure of the Trust does not include the interposition of a limited liability entity such as a corporation or a limited partnership which would provide further limited liability protection to Trust unitholders. While the Trustee is liable for any excess liabilities incurred if the Trustee fails to insure that such liabilities are to be satisfied only out of Trust assets, under the laws of Texas, which are unsettled on this point, a holder of units may be jointly and severally liable for any liability of the Trust if the satisfaction of such liability was not contractually limited to the assets of the Trust and the assets of the Trust and the Trustee are not adequate to satisfy such liability. As a result, Trust unitholders may be exposed to personal liability.. The future financial condition of Working Interest Owners or other operators of the underlying properties could impede the operation of wells.. The value of the Royalty and the Trust's ultimate cash available for distribution is highly dependent on the financial condition of the operators of the wells. The ability to operate the underlying properties depends on all operators' current and future financial condition and economic performance and access to capital, which in turn will depend upon the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of such operators.. In the event of the bankruptcy of any operator of the underlying properties, the Working Interest Owners in the affected properties, creditors or the debtor-in-possession may have to seek a new party to perform the operations of the affected wells. The creditors or debtor-in-possession may not be able to find a replacement operator, and they may not be able to enter into a new agreement with such replacement party on favorable terms or within a reasonable period of time.. Financial information of the Trust is not prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.. The financial statements of the Trust are prepared on a modified cash basis of accounting, which is a comprehensive basis of accounting other than U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (\"U.S. GAAP\"). Although this basis of accounting is permitted for royalty trusts by the SEC, the financial statements of the Trust differ from U.S. GAAP financial statements, because net profits income is not accrued in the month of production, expenses are not recognized when incurred, and cash reserves may be established for certain contingencies that would not be recorded in U.S. GAAP financial statements.. 26. Table of Contents"
