[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors. You should carefully read this entire report, including, without limitation, the following risk factors and the section of this annual report entitled \"Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.\" Any of the following factors could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Acquisitions may not be successfully integrated and may not achieve intended benefits.. We face additional risks associated with our strategy to grow our business through acquisitions of other brands and geographic licensees, such as our acquisition of Jimmy Choo in November 2017. We may not be able to successfully integrate any licensee or any other business that we may acquire into our own business, or achieve any expected cost savings or synergies from such integration or we may determine to limit the integration of our brands. The potential difficulties that we may face that could cause the results of the acquisition of such previously licensed business, Jimmy Choo, or any other business that we may acquire to not be in line with our expectations include, among others:. • failure to implement our business plan for the combined business or to achieve anticipated revenue or profitability targets;. • delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets;. • higher than expected costs, lower than expected cost savings and/or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties;. • unanticipated issues in integrating logistics, information and other systems;. • unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations;. • retaining key customers, suppliers and employees;. • operating risks inherent in the acquired business and our business;. • diversion of the attention and resources of management;. • retaining and obtaining required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits;. • unanticipated changes in the combined business due to potential divestitures or other requirements imposed by antitrust regulators;. • assumption of liabilities not identified in due diligence or other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities; and. • the impact on our internal controls and compliance with the requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.. Our acquisition of Jimmy Choo or any other entity that we may acquire may not perform as well as initially expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we are required to test goodwill, brand and any other intangible assets acquired as a result of acquisitions for impairment. If such testing indicates that the carrying value of goodwill, brand or other intangible assets exceeds the related fair value, we would be required to record an impairment charge for the difference, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.. Additionally, Jimmy Choo outsources its information technology, accounting and other back office activities to a third-party service provider pursuant to an agreement effective October 2, 2017. We may incur additional expenses with the new third-party service provider. In addition, we may experience delays or difficulties in completing the transition to the new third-party service provider, which could cause material operational disruption and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 13. Table of Contents. The long-term growth of our business depends on the successful execution of our strategic initiatives.. As part of our long-term strategy, we intend to grow our market share and revenue through the following initiatives:. • trendsetting and innovative product offerings;. • increased brand engagement;. • optimizing customer experience;. • investing in technology; and. • expanding our global presence.. As previously announced, we also intend to optimize the Michael Kors retail store fleet, including through the closure of between 100 and 125 of our underperforming Michael Kors full-price retail stores over the next two years, in order to generate cost savings and focus on our most highly productive locations. As of March 31, 2018, we closed 47 of our Michael Kors full-price retail stores under our Retail Fleet Optimization Plan. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully execute on this initiative or achieve the anticipated cost savings, efficiencies, or other benefits related to the Retail Fleet Optimization Plan.. In addition, we intend to support the growth of Jimmy Choo's sales through retail store openings and further developing Jimmy Choo's online presence, leveraging Jimmy Choo's strong presence in Asia and expanding into the luxury accessories market. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully execute on these strategic initiatives.. If we are unable to execute on our strategic initiatives, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, both within North America and internationally, and increased competition based on a number of factors could cause our profitability to decline.. We face intense competition for our Michael Kors brand from other domestic and foreign accessories, footwear and apparel producers and retailers, including the following brands, among others: Coach, Burberry, Guess, Ralph Lauren, Hermès, Louis Vuitton, Gucci, Marc Jacobs, Chloé, Tory Burch, Prada, Kate Spade, Tommy Hilfiger and Calvin Klein. Likewise, we face competition for our Jimmy Choo brand from the following brands: Christian Louboutin, Manolo Blahnik, Giuseppe Zanotti, Salvatore Ferragamo, Tod's, Roger Vivier, Christian Dior, Prada, Yves Saint Laurent, Louis Vuitton and Chanel. In addition, we face competition through third party distribution channels, such as e-commerce, department stores and specialty stores. Competition is based on a number of factors, including, without limitation, the following:. • anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner;. • establishing and maintaining favorable brand-name recognition;. • determining and maintaining product quality;. • maintaining key employees;. • maintaining and growing market share;. • developing quality and differentiated products that appeal to consumers;. • establishing and maintaining acceptable relationships with retail customers;. • pricing products appropriately;. • providing appropriate service and support to retailers;. • optimizing retail and supply chain capabilities;. • determining size and location of retail and department store selling space; and. • protecting intellectual property.. In addition, some of our competitors may be significantly larger and more diversified than us and may have significantly greater financial, technological, manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the accessories, footwear and apparel industries, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production and more quickly develop new products. The general availability of manufacturing contractors and agents also allows new entrants easy access to the markets in which we compete, which may increase the number of our competitors and adversely affect our competitive position and our business. Any increased competition, or our failure to adequately address any of these competitive factors, could result in reduced revenues, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 14. Table of Contents. Competition, along with other factors such as consolidation, changes in consumer spending patterns and a highly promotional environment, could also result in significant pricing pressure. These factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to our wholesale customers and retail consumers, which could cause our gross margins to decline if we are unable to appropriately manage inventory levels and/or otherwise offset price reductions with comparable reductions in our operating costs. If our sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product costs or operating expenses, our profitability may decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our retail stores are heavily dependent on the ability and desire of consumers to travel and shop and a decline in consumer traffic could have a negative effect on our comparable store sales and/or average sales per square foot and store profitability resulting in impairment charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Reduced travel resulting from economic conditions, fuel shortages, increased fuel prices, travel restrictions, travel concerns and other circumstances, including adverse weather conditions, disease epidemics and other health-related concerns, war, terrorist attacks or the perceived threat of war or terrorist attacks could have a material adverse effect on us, particularly if such events impact our customers' desire to travel to our retail stores. In addition, other factors that could impact the success of our retail stores include: (i) the location of the mall or the location of a particular store within the mall; (ii) the other tenants occupying space at the mall; (iii) vacancies within the mall; (iv) increased competition in areas where the malls are located; (v) the amount of advertising and promotional dollars spent on attracting consumers to the malls; and (vi) a shift toward online shopping. A decline in consumer traffic could have a negative effect on our comparable store sales and/or average sales per square foot and store profitability. If our retail stores underperform due to declining consumer traffic or otherwise and our expected future cash flows of the related underlying retail store asset do not exceed such asset's carrying value, we may incur store impairment charges. A decline in future comparable store sales or average sales per square foot decline or failure to meet market expectations or the incurrence of impairment charges relating to our retail store fleet could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, the aggregate results of operations of our stores have fluctuated in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. A variety of factors affect both comparable store sales and average sales per square foot, including, among others, fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, pricing, inflation, the timing of the release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions. If we misjudge the market for our products, we may incur excess inventory for some of our products and miss opportunities for other products. These factors may cause our comparable store sales results and average sales per square foot in the future to be materially lower than in recent periods and our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may not be able to respond to changing fashion and retail trends in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our brands, business, results of operations and financial condition, including from excess inventory if we misjudge the demand for our products.. The accessories, footwear and apparel industries have historically been subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer preferences. We believe that our success is largely dependent on the images of our brands and ability to anticipate and respond promptly to changing consumer demands and fashion trends in the design, styling, production, merchandising and pricing of products. If we do not correctly gauge consumer needs and fashion trends and respond appropriately, consumers may not purchase our products and our brand names and the images of our brands may be impaired. Even if we react appropriately to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brands to be outdated or associate our brands with styles that are no longer popular or trend-setting. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our brands, our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for other products. If that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess and slow-moving inventory, which may negatively impact our gross margin and profitability.. The success of our business also depends on our ability to continue to develop and maintain a reliable digital experience for our customers. We strive to give our customers a jet-set shopping experience both in stores and through digital technologies, such as computers, mobile phones, tablets, and other devices. We also use social media to interact with our customers and enhance their shopping experience. Our inability to develop and continuously improve our digital footprint could negatively affect our ability to compete with other brands, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 15. Table of Contents. The accessories, footwear and apparel industries are heavily influenced by general macroeconomic cycles that affect consumer spending and a prolonged period of depressed consumer spending could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The accessories, footwear and apparel industries have historically been subject to cyclical variations, recessions in the general economy and uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that can affect consumer spending habits. Purchases of discretionary luxury items, such as our products, tend to decline during recessionary periods when disposable income is lower. The success of our operations depends on a number of factors impacting discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, consumer confidence, wages and unemployment, housing prices, consumer debt, interest rates, fuel and energy costs, taxation and political conditions. A worsening of the economy may negatively affect consumer and wholesale purchases of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is subject to risks associated with importing products, and the imposition of additional duties and any changes to international trade agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. There are risks inherent to importing our products. Virtually all of our Michael Kors merchandise is manufactured in Asia or Europe, and is subject to duties when imported into the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia, as applicable. Jimmy Choo products are manufactured in Europe and are subject to duties when imported to countries outside of the EU, such as the U.S., China, Japan and South Korea. Most of the countries to which we ship could impose safeguard quotas to protect their local industries from import surges that threaten to create market disruption.  The United States and other countries may also unilaterally impose additional duties in response to a particular product being imported at unfairly traded prices that cause or threaten injury to the relevant domestic industry (generally known as \"anti-dumping\" actions). If dumping is suspected in the United States, the United States government may self-initiate a dumping case on behalf of a particular industry. Furthermore, additional duties, generally known as countervailing duties, can also be imposed by the United States government or the governments of other countries to offset subsidies provided by a foreign government to foreign manufacturers if the importation of such subsidized merchandise injures or threatens to injure a United States industry or the industry of such other country, as applicable. If the United States imposes import duties or other protective import measures, other countries could retaliate in ways that could harm the international distribution of our products.. We are also dependent on international trade agreements and regulations, such as NAFTA.  If the United States were to withdraw from or materially modify NAFTA or certain other international trade agreements, our business could be adversely affected.. The accessories, footwear and apparel sold by us are also subject to import regulations in the United States and other countries concerning the use of wildlife products for commercial and non-commercial trade, including the F&W. F&W requires that we obtain a license to import animal and fauna that are subject to regulation by F&W and can revoke (or refuse to renew) this license, seize and possibly destroy our shipments and/or fine the Company for F&W violations.. The imposition of taxes, duties and quotas, the initiation of an anti-dumping action or a countervailing duty action, the withdrawal from or material modification to trade agreements and/or the repercussions of F&W violations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are dependent on a limited number of distribution facilities. If one or more of our distribution facilities experiences operational difficulties or becomes inoperable, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We operate a limited number of distribution facilities. Our ability to meet the needs of our wholesale customers and our own retail stores and e-commerce sites depends on the proper operation of these distribution facilities. If any of these distribution facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, we could suffer a substantial loss of inventory and/or disruptions of deliveries to our retail and wholesale customers. In addition, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with the distribution of our products during the time it takes to reopen or replace the damaged facility. Any of the foregoing factors could result in decreased sales and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In addition, we have been moving into new and larger facilities as needed and have been concurrently implementing new warehouse management systems to further support our efforts to operate with increased efficiency and flexibility. There are risks inherent in operating in new distribution environments and implementing new warehouse management systems, including operational difficulties that may arise with such transitions. We may experience shipping delays should there be any disruptions in our new warehouse management systems or warehouses themselves.. 16. Table of Contents. Privacy breaches and other cyber security risks related to our business could negatively affect our reputation, credibility and business.. We are dependent on information technology systems and networks for a significant portion of our direct-to-consumer sales, including our e-commerce sites and retail business credit card transaction authorization and processing. We are responsible for storing data relating to our customers and employees and also rely on third party vendors for the storage, processing and transmission of personal and Company information. Consumers, lawmakers and consumer advocates alike are increasingly concerned over the security of personal information transmitted over the Internet, consumer identity theft and privacy and the retail industry, in particular, has been the target of many recent cyber-attacks. In addition to taking the necessary precautions ourselves, we require that third-party service providers implement reasonable security measures to protect our employees' and customers' identity and privacy. We do not, however, control these third-party service providers and cannot guarantee that no electronic or physical computer break-ins or security breaches will occur in the future. Our systems and technology are vulnerable from time-to-time to damage, disruption or interruption from, among other things, physical damage, natural disasters, inadequate system capacity, system issues, security breaches, \"hackers,\" email blocking lists, computer viruses, power outages and other failures or disruptions outside of our control. A significant breach of customer, employee or Company data could damage our reputation, our relationship with customers and our brands, and could result in lost sales, sizable fines, significant breach-notification costs and lawsuits, as well as adversely affect our results of operations. We may also incur additional costs in the future related to the implementation of additional security measures to protect against new or enhanced data security and privacy threats, or to comply with state, federal and international laws that may be enacted to address those threats.. A material disruption in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We rely extensively on our information technology (\"IT\") systems to track inventory, manage our supply chain, record and process transactions, manage customer communications, summarize results and manage our business. The failure of our IT systems to operate properly or effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or difficulty in/failure to implement new systems, could adversely affect our business. In addition, we have e-commerce websites in the United States, Canada, certain European countries, China, Japan and South Korea, and plans to continue to expand our global e-commerce distribution. Our IT systems and websites may be subject to damage and/or interruption from power outages, computer, network and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, \"hackers\", security breaches, usage errors by our employees and bad acts by our customers and website visitors. If our IT systems or websites are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer loss of critical data (including our customer data) and interruptions or delays in our operations in the interim. Any significant disruption in our IT systems or websites could harm our reputation and credibility, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The departure of our founder, members of our executive management and other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We depend on the services and management experience of our founder and executive officers, who have substantial experience and expertise in our business. In particular, Mr. Kors, our Honorary Chairman and Chief Creative Officer, has provided design and executive leadership to the Company since its inception. He is instrumental to our marketing and publicity strategy and is closely identified with both the brand that bears his name and our Company in general. Our ability to maintain our brand image and leverage the goodwill associated with Mr. Kors' name may be damaged if we were to lose his services. Mr. Kors has the right to terminate his employment with us without cause. In addition, the leadership of John D. Idol, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has been a critical element of our success. We also depend on other key employees involved in our licensing, design and advertising operations. Competition for qualified personnel in the apparel industry is intense, and competitors may use aggressive tactics to recruit our executive officers and key employees. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Kors and certain of our other executive officers, including Mr. Idol, we may not be able to retain the services of such individuals in the future. In addition, Michael Kors attaches great importance to the skills and experience of Jimmy Choo's existing management team, including Ms.Sandra Choi, and thus the risk of dependence on key members of management may be further exacerbated by the acquisition. The loss of services of one or more of these individuals or any negative public perception with respect to, or relating to, the loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 17. Table of Contents. Fluctuations in our tax obligations and changes in tax laws, treaties and regulations may have a material adverse impact on our future effective tax rates and results of operations.. Our subsidiaries are subject to taxation in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions, with the applicable tax rates varying by jurisdiction. As a result, our overall effective tax rate is affected by the proportion of earnings from the various tax jurisdictions. We record tax expense based on our estimates of taxable income and required reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions. At any time, there are multiple tax years that are subject to examinations by various taxing authorities. The ultimate resolution of these audits and negotiations with taxing authorities may result in a settlement amount that differs from our original estimate. Any proposed or future changes in tax laws, treaties and regulations or interpretations where we operate could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rates, results of operations and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"Tax Act\"). The Tax Act includes significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system including, among other things, lowering the U.S. statutory federal tax rate to 21% and implementing a territorial tax system. The Tax Act also adds many new provisions, including changes to bonus depreciation, limits on the deductions for executive compensation and interest expense, a tax on global intangible low-taxed income (\"GILTI\"), the base erosion anti-abuse tax (\"BEAT\") and a deduction for foreign derived intangible income (\"FDII\"). The final transition impacts of the Tax Act may differ from our initial estimates, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the Tax Act, or any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act. In addition, once we finalize certain tax positions when we file our 2017 U.S. tax return, we will be able to conclude whether any further adjustments are required to our deferred tax balances in the U.S., as well as to the total liability associated with the one-time mandatory tax.. On March 26, 2015, the United Kingdom (\"U.K.\") enacted new Diverted Profits Tax legislation (the \"DPT\"), which was effective on April 1, 2015. Under the DPT, profits of certain multinational enterprises (such as the Company) deemed to have been artificially diverted from the U.K. will be taxed at a rate of 25%. While the Company believes that all of its affiliated entities and the transactions among them have the required economic substance, there is no assurance that this legislation will not have a material effect on its results of operations and financial condition.. We and our subsidiaries are also engaged in a number of intercompany transactions. Although we believe that these transactions reflect arm's-length terms and that proper transfer pricing documentation is in place, the transfer prices and conditions may be scrutinized by local tax authorities, which could result in additional tax liabilities. On October 5, 2015, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), an international association of thirty four countries, including the U.S. and U.K., released the final reports from its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Action Plans. The BEPS recommendations covered a number of issues, including country-by-country reporting, permanent establishment rules, transfer pricing rules and tax treaties. Future tax reform resulting from this development may result in changes to long-standing tax principles, which could adversely affect our effective tax rate or result in higher cash tax liabilities.. We face risks associated with operating in international markets and our strategy to continue to expand internationally.. We operate on a global basis, with approximately 40.3% of our total revenue from operations outside of the U.S. during Fiscal 2018. As a result, we are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including political and economic instability in foreign countries, laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, potential negative consequences from changes in taxation policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism, military actions or other conditions. Economic instability and unsettled regional and global conflicts may negatively affect consumer spending by foreign tourists and local consumers in the various regions where we operate, which could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We also sell our products at varying retail price points based on geographic location that yield different gross profit margins and we achieve different operating profit margins, depending on geographic region, due to a variety of factors including product mix, store size, occupancy costs, labor costs and retail pricing. Changes in any one or more of these factors could result in lower revenues, increased costs, and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.. There are some countries where we do not yet have significant operating experience, and in most of these countries we face established competitors with significantly more operating experience in those locations. Many countries have different operational characteristics, including, but not limited to, employment and labor, transportation, logistics, real estate (including lease terms) and local reporting or legal requirements. Furthermore, consumer demand and behavior, as well as tastes and purchasing trends may differ in these countries and, as a result, sales of our product may not be successful, or the margins on those sales may not be in line with those we currently anticipate. In addition, in many of these countries there is significant competition to attract and retain experienced and talented employees. If our international expansion plans are unsuccessful, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 18. Table of Contents. In addition, on June 23, 2016, voters in the U.K. approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the EU (\"Brexit\"). The Brexit vote and the perceptions as to the impact of the withdrawal of the U.K. from the EU may adversely affect business activity, political stability and economic conditions in the U.K., the EU and elsewhere. On March 29, 2017, the U.K. triggered Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty formally starting negotiations with the EU The U.K. has two years to complete these negotiations. Negotiations on withdrawal and post-exit arrangements likely will be complex and protracted, and there can be no assurance regarding the terms, timing or consummation of any such arrangements. The withdrawal could adversely affect the tax, currency, operational, legal and regulatory regimes to which our businesses in the region are subject. The withdrawal could also disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the U.K. and the EU and significantly disrupt trade between the U.K. and the EU and other parties. There can be no assurance that any or all of these events will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from a small number of large wholesale customers, and the loss of any of these wholesale customers could substantially reduce our total revenue.. A small number of our wholesale customers account for a significant portion of our sales. Revenue from our five largest wholesale customers represented 19.2% of our total revenue for Fiscal 2018 and 21.0% of our total revenue for Fiscal 2017. Michael Kors' largest wholesale customer, Macy's, accounted for 7.8% of our total revenue for Fiscal 2018 and 8.9% of our total revenue for Fiscal 2017. We do not have written agreements with any of our wholesale customers and purchases generally occur on an order-by-order basis. A decision by any of our major wholesale customers, whether motivated by marketing strategy, competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease significantly the amount of merchandise purchased from us or our licensing partners, or to change their manner of doing business with us or our licensing partners, could substantially reduce our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our profitability. During the past several years, the retail industry has experienced a great deal of consolidation and other ownership changes and we expect such changes will continue. In addition, store closings by our wholesale customers decrease the number of stores carrying our products, while the remaining stores may purchase a smaller amount of our products and/or may reduce the retail floor space designated for our brands. In the future, retailers may further consolidate, undergo bankruptcy, restructurings or reorganizations, realign their affiliations or reposition their stores' target markets. Any of these types of actions could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry. These changes could decrease our opportunities in the market, increase our reliance on a smaller number of large wholesale customers and decrease our negotiating strength with our wholesale customers. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our business is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.. Our results of operations for our international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars during financial statement consolidation. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions could impact our consolidated results of operations. In addition, we have intercompany notes amongst certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, which may be denominated in a currency other than the local currency of a particular reporting entity. As a result of using a currency other than the functional currency of the related subsidiary, results of these operations may be adversely affected during times of significant fluctuation between the functional currency of that subsidiary and the denomination currency of the note. We continuously monitor our foreign currency exposure and hedge a portion of our foreign subsidiaries' foreign currency-denominated inventory purchases to minimize the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. However, we cannot fully anticipate all of our foreign currency exposures and cannot ensure that these hedges will fully offset the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.. As a result of operating retail stores and concessions in various countries outside of the U.S., we are also exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the Euro, the British Pound, the Chinese Renminbi, the Japanese Yen, the Korean Won and the Canadian Dollar, among others. A substantial weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. Dollar could require us to raise our retail prices or reduce our profit margins in various locations outside of the U.S. In addition, our sales and profitability could be negatively impacted if consumers in those markets were unwilling to purchase our products at increased prices.. We are subject to risks associated with leasing retail space under long-term, non-cancelable leases and are required to make substantial lease payments under our operating leases. If we close a leased retail space, we remain obligated under the applicable lease. We also may be unable to renew leases at the end of their terms.. We do not own any of our store facilities; instead, we lease all of our stores under operating leases. Our leases generally have terms of up to 10 years, generally require a fixed annual rent and most require the payment of additional rent if store sales exceed a negotiated amount. Certain of our European stores also require initial investments in the form of key money to secure prime locations, which may be paid to landlords or existing lessees. Generally, our leases are \"net\" leases, which require us to pay. 19. Table of Contents. all of the costs of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. We generally cannot cancel these leases at our option. Payments under these operating leases account for a significant portion of our operating costs. For example, as of March 31, 2018, we were party to operating leases associated with our stores as well as other corporate facilities requiring future minimum lease payments aggregating to $1.375 billion through Fiscal 2023 and approximately $531.4 million thereafter through Fiscal 2044, which included $267.6 million of future non-cancelable aggregate operating lease payments for Jimmy Choo. We previously announced that we intend to optimize the Michael Kors retail store fleet, including, through the closure of between 100 and 125 of Michael Kors full-price underperforming retail stores. In connection with our Retail Fleet Optimization Plan, we may remain obligated under the applicable lease for, among other things, payment of the base rent for the balance of the lease term. In some instances, we may be unable to close an underperforming retail store due to continuous operation provisions in our leases. In addition, as each of our leases expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close retail stores in desirable locations. Our substantial operating lease obligations, including with respect to closed retail spaces, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our current and future licensing arrangements may not be successful and may make us susceptible to the actions of third parties over whom we have limited control.. We have entered into a select number of product licensing agreements with companies that produce and sell, under our trademarks, products requiring specialized expertise. We have also entered into a number of select licensing agreements pursuant to which we have granted third parties certain rights to distribute and sell our products in certain geographical areas, such as the Middle East, Eastern Europe, Brazil, certain parts of Asia and Australia. In addition, we have a joint venture that covers the distribution and sale of Michael Kors branded products and the operation of retail stores in Latin America (excluding Brazil) and the Caribbean and Jimmy Choo has joint ventures in the Middle East and Russia. In the future, we may enter into additional licensing arrangements. Although we take steps to carefully select our licensing partners, such arrangements may not be successful. Our licensing partners may fail to fulfill their obligations under their license agreements or have interests that differ from or conflict with our own, such as the timing of new store openings, the pricing of our products and the offering of competitive products. In addition, the risks applicable to the business of our licensing partners may be different than the risks applicable to our business, including risks associated with each such partner's ability to:. • obtain capital;. • exercise operational and financial control over its business;. • manage its labor relations;. • maintain relationships with suppliers;. • manage its credit and bankruptcy risks; and. • maintain customer relationships.. Any of the foregoing risks, or the inability of any of our licensing partners to successfully market our products or otherwise conduct its business, may result in loss of revenue and competitive harm to our operations in regions or product categories where we have entered into such licensing arrangements.. We rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our brands. Although we attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over store location and design, product design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our stores and products, we may not be able to control the use by our licensing partners of our brand. The misuse of our brand by a licensing partner could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Increases in the cost of raw materials could increase our production costs and cause our operating results and financial condition to suffer.. The costs of raw materials used in our products are affected by, among other things, weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. We are not always successful in our efforts to protect our business from the volatility of the market price of raw materials and our business can be materially affected by dramatic movements in prices of raw materials. The ultimate effect of this change on our earnings cannot be quantified, as the effect of movements in raw materials prices on industry selling prices are uncertain, but any significant increase in these prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. 20. Table of Contents. We primarily use foreign manufacturing contractors and independent third-party agents to source our finished goods, which poses legal, regulatory, political and economic risks to our business operations.. Our products are primarily produced by, and purchased or procured from, independent manufacturing contractors located mainly in Asia and Europe. A manufacturing contractor's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet the required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items. The failure to make timely deliveries may cause customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, any of the following factors could negatively affect our ability to produce or deliver our products and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition:. • political or labor instability, labor shortages (stemming from labor disputes or otherwise), or increases in costs of labor or production in countries where manufacturing contractors and suppliers are located;. • significant delays or disruptions in delivery of our products due to labor disputes or strikes at the location of the source of our goods and/or at ports of entry;. • political or military conflict involving the United States or the EU, which could cause a delay in the transportation of our products and raw materials and increase transportation costs;. • heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more thorough inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of goods for extended periods of time or could result in increased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods, leading to lost sales, increased costs for our anti-counterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of our brands;. • a significant decrease in availability or an increase in the cost of raw materials;. • disease epidemics and health-related concerns, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny or embargoing of goods produced in infected areas;. • the migration and development of manufacturing contractors, which could affect where our products are or are planned to be produced;. • imposition of regulations, quotas and safeguards relating to imports and our ability to adjust in a timely manner to changes in trade regulations, which, among other things, could limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise needed;. • increases in the costs of fuel, travel and transportation;. • imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports;. • significant fluctuation of the value of the U.S. Dollar against foreign currencies; and. • restrictions on transfers of funds out of countries where our foreign licensees are located.. We do not have written agreements with any of our third-party manufacturing contractors. As a result, any single manufacturing contractor could unilaterally terminate its relationship with us at any time. In Fiscal 2018, Michael Kors' largest manufacturing contractor, who primarily produces its products in China and who Michael Kors has worked with for over ten years, accounted for the production of 19.9% of its finished products, based on unit volume. For the period covering November 1, 2017 through March 31, 2018 one manufacturer accounted for approximately 16.0% of Jimmy Choo's finished goods purchases, based on unit volume. Our inability to promptly replace manufacturing contractors that terminate their relationships with us or cease to provide high quality products in a timely and cost-efficient manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and impact the cost and availability of our goods.. In addition, Michael Kors uses third-party agents to source its finished goods with numerous manufacturing contractors on its behalf. Any single agent could unilaterally terminate its relationship with Michael Kors at any time. In Fiscal 2018, Michael Kors' largest third-party agent, whose primary place of business is Hong Kong and who Michael Kors has worked with for over 10 years, sourced approximately 23.9% of its purchases of finished goods, based on unit volume. Our inability to promptly replace agents that terminate their relationships with us or cease to provide high quality service in a timely and cost-efficient manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. If we fail to comply with labor laws or collective bargaining agreements, or if our manufacturing contractors fail to use acceptable, ethical business practices, our business and reputation could suffer.. We are subject to labor laws governing relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and citizenship requirements. Jimmy Choo is also subject to collective bargaining agreements with respect to employees in certain European countries. Compliance with these laws and regulations, as well as collective bargaining agreements may lead to increased costs and operational complexity and may increase our exposure to governmental investigations or litigation.. 21. Table of Contents. We require our manufacturing contractors to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance. Additionally, we impose upon our business partners operating guidelines that require additional obligations in those three areas in order to promote ethical business practices, and our staff and third parties we retain for such purposes periodically visit and monitor the operations of our manufacturing contractors to determine compliance. However, we do not control our manufacturing contractors or their labor and other business practices. If one of our manufacturing contractors violates applicable labor or other laws, rules or regulations or implements labor or other business practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United States, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be cancelled, relationships could be terminated and our reputation could be damaged. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We may be unable to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and others may allege that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights.. Our trademarks, including MICHAEL KORS and MICHAEL MICHAEL KORS, JIMMY CHOO, logos and other intellectual property rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, the Far East and elsewhere in the world in both online and offline channels. Both the Michael Kors and Jimmy Choo brands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition and the generally higher pricing of our products creates additional incentive for counterfeiters to infringe on our brands. We work with customs authorities, law enforcement, legal representatives and brand specialists globally in an effort to prevent the sale of counterfeit products, but we cannot guarantee the extent to which our efforts to prevent counterfeiting of our brands and other intellectual property infringement will be successful. Such counterfeiting and other infringement could dilute the Michael Kors or Jimmy Choo brand and harm our reputation and business.. Our trademark applications may fail to result in registered trademarks or provide the scope of coverage sought, and others may seek to invalidate our trademarks or block sales of our products as a violation of their trademarks and intellectual property rights. In addition, others may assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of ours or in trademarks that are similar to ours or trademarks that we license and/or market, and we may not be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, trademark owners may have prior rights to our trademarks or similar trademarks. Furthermore, certain foreign countries may not protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States or the EU.. From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we become involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings with respect to trademarks similar to some of our brands. Any litigation or dispute involving the scope or enforceability of our intellectual property rights or any allegation that we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others could be costly and time-consuming and could result, if determined adversely to us, in harm to our competitive position.. Our share price may periodically fluctuate based on the accuracy of our earnings guidance or other forward-looking statements regarding our financial performance.. Our business and long-range planning process is designed to maximize our long-term growth and profitability and not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal quarter. We believe that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of the Company and our shareholders. At the same time, however, we recognize that it is helpful to provide investors with guidance as to our forecast of total revenue, earnings per share, comparable store sales and other financial metrics or projections. While we generally expect to provide updates to our financial guidance when we report our results each fiscal quarter, we do not have any responsibility to update any of our forward-looking statements at such times or otherwise. In addition, any longer-term guidance that we provide is based on goals that we believe, at the time guidance is given, are reasonably attainable for growth and performance over a number of years. However, such long-range targets are more difficult to predict than our current quarter and fiscal year expectations. If, or when, we announce actual results that differ from those that have been predicted by us, outside investment analysts, or others, our share price could be adversely affected. Investors who rely on these predictions when making investment decisions with respect to our securities do so at their own risk. We take no responsibility for any losses suffered as a result of such changes in our share price.. We periodically return value to shareholders through our share repurchase program. Investors may have an expectation that we will repurchase all shares available under our share repurchase program. The market price of our securities could be adversely affected if our share repurchase activity differs from investors' expectations or if our share repurchase program were to terminate.. 22. Table of Contents. Restrictive covenants in our indebtedness agreements may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies.. On August 22, 2017, we entered into a second amended and restated senior unsecured credit facility (as amended, the \"2017 Credit Facility\") with, among others, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent. The Company and its U.S., Canadian, Dutch and Swiss subsidiaries are the borrowers under the 2017 Credit Facility. The borrowers and certain material subsidiaries of the Company provide unsecured guarantees of the 2017 Credit Facility. The agreement that governs our 2017 Credit Facility contains a number of restrictive covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us, and the Indenture governing our senior notes contain certain restrictions, which collectively may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to:. • incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness;. • pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock;. • make loans and investments, including acquisitions;. • sell assets;. • incur liens;. • enter into transactions with affiliates; and. • consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets.. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our New Credit Facilities require us to maintain a ratio of the sum of total indebtedness plus 6.0 times consolidated rent expense for the last four fiscal quarters to Consolidated EBITDAR of no greater than 3.5 to 1.0. Our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control and we may be unable to meet it.. A breach of the covenants or restrictions under the documents that govern our indebtedness could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under the credit agreement governing our 2017 Credit Facility would permit the lenders under our 2017 Credit Facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. In the event our lenders or noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. As a result of there restrictions, we may be:. • limited in how we conduct our business;. • unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or. • unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities.. These restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our strategy. In addition, our financial results, our substantial indebtedness and our credit ratings could adversely affect the availability and terms of our financing.. We have incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could restrict our ability to engage in additional transactions or incur additional indebtedness.. During Fiscal 2018, we financed our acquisition of Jimmy Choo with $1.0 billion term loans (which have been partially repaid), $450.0 million of senior notes and cash on hand. As of March 31, 2018, our consolidated indebtedness was approximately $874.4 million, net of debt issuance costs and discount amortization. Our total borrowings as of March 31, 2018 included $200.0 million outstanding under our 2017 Revolving Credit Facility, senior notes of $450.0 million and term loans of $229.8 million.  As of March 31, 2018, we have the capacity to borrow up to $804.7 million of additional indebtedness under our undrawn revolving credit facilities, which may be used to finance our working capital needs, capital expenditures, permitted investments, share repurchases, dividends and other general corporate purposes. This substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our business including making it more difficult to satisfy our debt obligations, increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and restricting us from pursuing certain business opportunities. In addition, the terms of our credit facility contain affirmative and negative covenants, including a leverage ratio, and the instruments governing our indebtedness limit our ability to incur debt, grant liens, engage in mergers and dispose of assets. These consequences and limitations could reduce the benefits we expect to achieve from the acquisition of Jimmy Choo or impede our ability to engage in future business opportunities or strategic acquisitions.. 23. Table of Contents. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt obligations and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash from our operations. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot guarantee that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments of our debt, fund other liquidity needs and make planned capital expenditures. In addition, our ability to access the credit and capital markets in the future as a source of funding, and the borrowing costs associated with such financing, is dependent upon market conditions and our credit rating and outlook.. Failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and cause a decline in the price of our ordinary shares.. As a public company we are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If our management is unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and cause a decline in the price of our ordinary shares.. The integration of Jimmy Choo into our internal control over financial reporting will require significant time and resources from our management and other personnel and will increase our compliance costs. If we fail to successfully integrate these operations, our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective. In addition, if Jimmy Choo's internal control over financial reporting is found to be ineffective, the integrity of Jimmy Choo's past financial statements could be adversely impacted.. Provisions in our organizational documents may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party.. Our Memorandum and Articles of Association (together, as amended from time to time, our \"Memorandum and Articles\") contain several provisions that may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions also may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our shareholders receiving a premium over the market price for their ordinary shares. These provisions include, among others:. • our board of directors' ability to amend the Memorandum and Articles to create and issue, from time to time, one or more classes of preference shares and, with respect to each such class, to fix the terms thereof by resolution;. • provisions relating to the multiple classes and three-year terms of directors, the manner of election of directors, removal of directors and the appointment of directors upon an increase in the number of directors or vacancy on our board of directors;. • restrictions on the ability of shareholders to call meetings and bring proposals before meetings;. • elimination of the ability of shareholders to act by written consent; and. • the requirement of the affirmative vote of 75% of the shares entitled to vote to amend certain provisions of our Memorandum and Articles.. These provisions of our Memorandum and Articles could discourage potential takeover attempts and reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for our ordinary shares in the future, which could reduce the market price of our ordinary shares.. Rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law differ from those under United States law, and, accordingly, our shareholders may have fewer protections.. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles, the BVI Business Companies Act, 2004 (as amended, the \"BVI Act\") and the common law of the British Virgin Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under British Virgin Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the British Virgin Islands and by the BVI Act. The common law of the British Virgin Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the British Virgin Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the British Virgin Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the British Virgin Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states (such as Delaware) have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. As a result of the foregoing, holders of our ordinary shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. company.. 24. Table of Contents. The laws of the British Virgin Islands provide limited protection for minority shareholders, so minority shareholders will have limited or no recourse if they are dissatisfied with the conduct of our affairs.. Under the laws of the British Virgin Islands, there is limited statutory law for the protection of minority shareholders other than the provisions of the BVI Act dealing with shareholder remedies. The principal protection under statutory law is that shareholders may bring an action to enforce the constituent documents of a British Virgin Islands company and are entitled to have the affairs of the company conducted in accordance with the BVI Act and the memorandum and articles of association of the company. As such, if those who control the company have persistently disregarded the requirements of the BVI Act or the provisions of the company's memorandum and articles of association, then the courts will likely grant relief. Generally, the areas in which the courts will intervene are the following: (i) an act complained of which is outside the scope of the authorized business or is illegal or not capable of ratification by the majority; (ii) acts that constitute fraud on the minority where the wrongdoers control the company; (iii) acts that infringe on the personal rights of the shareholders, such as the right to vote; and (iv) acts where the company has not complied with provisions requiring approval of a special or extraordinary majority of shareholders, which are more limited than the rights afforded to minority shareholders under the laws of many states in the United States.. It may be difficult to enforce judgments against us or our executive officers and directors in jurisdictions outside the United States.. Under our Memorandum and Articles, we may indemnify and hold our directors harmless against all claims and suits brought against them, subject to limited exceptions. Furthermore, to the extent allowed by law, the rights and obligations among or between us, any of our current or former directors, officers and employees and any current or former shareholder will be governed exclusively by the laws of the British Virgin Islands and subject to the jurisdiction of the British Virgin Islands courts, unless those rights or obligations do not relate to or arise out of their capacities as such. Although there is doubt as to whether United States courts would enforce these provisions in an action brought in the United States under United States securities laws, these provisions could make judgments obtained outside of the British Virgin Islands more difficult to enforce against our assets in the British Virgin Islands or jurisdictions that would apply British Virgin Islands law.. British Virgin Islands companies may not be able to initiate shareholder derivative actions, thereby depriving shareholders of one avenue to protect their interests.. British Virgin Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The circumstances in which any such action may be brought, and the procedures and defenses that may be available in respect of any such action, may result in the rights of shareholders of a British Virgin Islands company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Accordingly, shareholders may have fewer alternatives available to them if they believe that corporate wrongdoing has occurred. The British Virgin Islands courts are also unlikely to recognize or enforce judgments of courts in the United States based on certain liability provisions of United States securities law or to impose liabilities, in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands, based on certain liability provisions of the United States securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the British Virgin Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the British Virgin Islands will generally recognize and enforce the non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. This means that even if shareholders were to sue us successfully, they may not be able to recover anything to make up for the losses suffered."
