[1] "Item 1A.   Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control.. We are subject to the following factors, among others, that may negatively affect our operating results:. • The announcement or introduction of new products by our competitors;. • Failure of Government and private health plans to adequately and timely reimburse the users of our products;. • Removal of our products from the Federal Supply Schedule or change in the prices that Government accounts will pay for our products;. • Our ability to upgrade and develop our systems and infrastructure to accommodate growth;. • Our ability to attract and retain key personnel in a timely and cost effective manner;. • The amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure;. • Regulation by federal, state or local Governments; and. • General economic conditions as well as economic conditions specific to the healthcare industry.. We have based our current and future expense levels largely on our investment plans and estimates of future events, although certain of our expense levels are, to a large extent, fixed.  We may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall.  Accordingly, any significant shortfall in revenue relative to our planned expenditures would have an immediate adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Further, as a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, we may from time to time make certain pricing, service or marketing decisions that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Due to the foregoing factors, our revenue and operating results are and will remain difficult to forecast.. We are in a highly competitive and evolving field and face competition from well-established tissue processors and medical device manufacturers, as well as new market entrants.. Our business is in a very competitive and evolving field. Competition from other tissue processors, medical device companies and from research and academic institutions is intense, expected to increase, subject to rapid change, and could be significantly affected by new product introductions. In addition, consolidation in the healthcare industry continues to lead demands for price concessions or to the exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our markets, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The presence of this competition in our market may lead to pricing pressure, which would make it more difficult to sell our products at a price that will make us profitable or prevent us from selling our products at all. Our failure to compete effectively would have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Rapid technological change could cause our products to become obsolete and if  we do not enhance our product offerings through our research and development efforts, we may be unable to effectively compete.. The technologies underlying our products are subject to rapid and profound technological change. Competition intensifies as technical advances in each field are made and become more widely known. We can give no assurance that others will not develop services, products, or processes with significant advantages over the products, services, and processes that we offer or are seeking to develop. Any such occurrence could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We plan to enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing customer demands and competitive pressure and technologies. The success of any new product offering or enhancement to an existing product will depend on numerous factors, including our ability to:. • properly identify and anticipate physician and patient needs;. 17. • develop and introduce new products or product enhancements in a timely manner;. • adequately protect our intellectual property and avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties;. • demonstrate the safety and efficacy of new products; and. • obtain the necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for new products or product enhancements.. If we do not develop and, when necessary, obtain regulatory clearance or approval for new products or product enhancements in time to meet market demand, or if there is insufficient demand for these products or enhancements, our results of operations will suffer. Our research and development efforts may require a substantial investment of time and resources before we are adequately able to determine the commercial viability of a new product, technology, material or other innovation. In addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce sales in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features.. Our products are dependent on the availability of tissue from human donors, and any disruption in supply could adversely affect our business.. The success of our human tissue products depends upon, among other factors, the availability of tissue from human donors. Any failure to obtain tissue from our sources will interfere with our ability to effectively meet demand for our products incorporating human tissue. The processing of human tissue into our products is very labor-intensive and it is therefore difficult to maintain a steady supply stream. The availability of donated tissue could also be adversely impacted by regulatory changes, public opinion of the donor process as well as our own reputation in the industry. The challenges we may face in obtaining adequate supplies of human tissue involve several risks, including limited control over availability, quality and delivery schedules. In addition, any interruption in the supply of any human tissue component could materially harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply, if any, could be found. We may be unable to find a sufficient alternative supply channel in a reasonable time period or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The products we manufacture and process are derived from human tissue and therefore have the potential for disease transmission.. The utilization of human tissue creates the potential for transmission of communicable disease, including, but not limited to, human immunodeficiency virus (\"HIV\"), viral hepatitis, syphilis and other viral, fungal or bacterial pathogens.  We are required to comply with federal and state regulations intended to prevent communicable disease transmission.. Although we maintain strict quality controls over the procurement and processing of our tissue, there is no assurance that these quality controls will be adequate.  In addition, negative publicity concerning disease transmission from other companies' improperly processed donated tissue could have a negative impact on the demand for our products.. We depend on key personnel.. Our success will depend, in part, upon our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel, including sales, managerial and technical personnel.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to find and attract additional qualified employees to support our expected growth or retain any such personnel.  Our inability to hire and retain qualified personnel or the loss of services of our key personnel may have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. A significant portion of our revenues and accounts receivable come from Government accounts.. We have significant sales to the Government (whether we are selling our products directly to Government Accounts or through our current or another distributor ).  Any disruption of our products on the FSS or a change in the way the Government purchases products like ours or the price it is willing to pay for our products, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. In order to grow revenues from certain of our products, we must expand our relationships with distributors and independent sales representatives, whom we do not control.. We derive significant revenues through our relationships with distributors and independent sales representatives, though, other than our distributor for Government accounts, no one distributor comprised over 5% of our revenues.  If such. 18. relationships were terminated for any reason, it could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and profits.  Because the independent distributor often controls the customer relationships within its territory, there is a risk that if our relationship with the distributor ends, our relationship with the customer will be lost. Also, because we do not control a distributor's field sales agents, there is a risk we will be unable to ensure that our sales processes, compliance, and other priorities will be consistently communicated and executed by the distributor. If we fail to maintain relationships with our key distributors, or fail to ensure that our distributors adhere to our sales processes, compliance, and other priorities, this could have an adverse effect on our operations.. We intend to obtain the assistance of additional distributors and independent sales representatives to continue our sales growth with respect to certain of our products.  Our success is partially dependent upon our ability to retain and motivate our distributors, independent sales agencies, and their representatives to sell our products in certain territories. They may not be successful in implementing our marketing plans. Some of our distributors and independent sales agencies do not sell our products exclusively and may offer similar products from other companies. Our distributors and independent sales agencies may terminate their contracts with us, may devote insufficient sales efforts to our products, or may focus their sales efforts on other products that produce greater commissions for them, which could have an adverse effect on our operations and operating results. We also may not be able to find additional distributors and independent sales representatives who will agree to market and/or distribute those products on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.  If we are unable to establish new distribution and independent sales representative relationships or renew current distribution and sales agency agreements on commercially acceptable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. We continue to invest significant capital in expanding our internal sales force, and there can be no assurance that these efforts will continue to result in significant increases in sales.. We are engaged in a major initiative to build and further expand our internal sales and marketing capabilities which has contributed to our increased sales.  As a result, we continue to invest in a direct sales force for certain of our products to allow us to reach new customers.  These expenses impact our operating results, and there can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in significantly expanding the sales of our products.. Our revenues depend on adequate reimbursement from public and private insurers and health systems.. Our success depends on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of our products and related treatments will be available from third party payers, such as public and private insurers and health systems.  Government and other third-party payers attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new products.  Therefore, significant uncertainty usually exists as to the reimbursement status of new healthcare products.  A significant number of public and private insurers and health systems currently do not provide reimbursement for our products.  If we are not successful in obtaining adequate reimbursement for our products from these third party payers, the market's acceptance of our products could be adversely affected.  Inadequate reimbursement levels also likely would create downward price pressure on our products.  Even if we do succeed in obtaining widespread reimbursement for our products, future changes in reimbursement policies could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Disruption of our processing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our results of operations are dependent upon the continued operation of our processing facilities.  Risks that could impact our ability to use these facilities include the occurrence of natural and other disasters, and the need to comply with the requirements of directives from Government agencies, including the FDA.  We have a secondary processing facility in Kennesaw, Georgia that also serves as a disaster recovery center.  However, the unavailability of our manufacturing and processing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations during the period of such unavailability.. To be commercially successful, we must convince physicians that our products are safe and effective alternatives to existing treatments and that our products should be used in their procedures.. We believe physicians will only adopt our products if they determine, based on experience, clinical data and published peer reviewed journal articles, that the use of our products in a particular procedure is a favorable alternative to conventional methods.  Physicians may be slow to change their medical treatment practices for the following reasons, among others:. · Their lack of experience with prior procedures in the field using our products;. · Lack of evidence supporting additional patient benefits and our products over conventional methods;. 19. · Perceived liability risks generally associated with the use of new products and procedures;. · Limited availability of reimbursement from third party payers; and. · The time that must be dedicated to training.. In addition, we believe recommendations for and support of our products by influential physicians are essential for market acceptance and adoption.  If we do not receive this support or if we are unable to demonstrate favorable long-term clinical data, physicians and hospitals may not use our products, which would significantly reduce our ability to achieve expected revenue and would prevent us from sustaining profitability.. In the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues that may arise with our products, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. Although we have established internal procedures to minimize risks that may arise from quality issues, we may not be able to eliminate or mitigate occurrences of these issues and associated liabilities. If the quality of our products does not meet the expectations of physicians or patients, then our brand and reputation could suffer and our business could be adversely impacted.. The formation of PODs could result in increased pricing pressure on our products or harm our ability to sell our products to physicians who own or are affiliated with those distributorships.. Physician-Owned Distributorships (\"PODs\") are medical product distributors that are owned, directly or indirectly, by physicians. These physicians derive a proportion of their revenue from selling or arranging for the sale of medical products for use in procedures they perform on their own patients at hospitals that agree to purchase from or through the POD, or that otherwise furnish ordering physicians with income that is based directly or indirectly on those orders of medical products.  The Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the Department of Health & Human Services has issued a Special Fraud Alert on PODs, indicating that they are inherently suspect under the anti-kickback statute.. We do not directly sell to or distribute any of our products through PODs. The number of PODs in the industry may continue to grow as economic pressures increase throughout the industry, as hospitals, insurers and physicians search for ways to reduce costs, and, in the case of the physicians, search for ways to increase their incomes. These companies and the physicians who own, or partially own, them have significant market knowledge and access to the physicians who use our products and the hospitals that purchase our products, and growth in this area may reduce our ability to compete effectively for business from physicians who own such distributorships.. We will need to expand our organization, and managing growth may be more difficult than expected.. Managing our growth may be more difficult than we expect.  We anticipate that a period of significant expansion will be required to penetrate and service the market for our existing and anticipated future products and to continue to develop new products.  This expansion will place a significant strain on management, operational and financial resources.  To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we must both modify our existing operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and implement new systems, procedures and controls.  We must also expand our finance, administrative, and operations staff.  Management may be unable to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage necessary personnel or to identify, manage and exploit existing and potential strategic relationships and market opportunities.. We face the risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate product liability insurance.. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacturing, processing and marketing of medical devices and human tissue products.  We may be subject to such claims if our products cause, or appear to have caused, an injury.  Claims may be made by patients, healthcare providers or others selling our products.  Defending a lawsuit, regardless of merit, could be costly, divert management attention and result in adverse publicity, which could result in the withdrawal of, or reduced acceptance of, our products in the market.. Although we have product liability insurance that we believe is adequate, this insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations and we may not be able to maintain this insurance. Also, it is possible that claims could exceed the limits of our coverage. If we are unable to maintain product liability insurance at an acceptable cost or on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or otherwise protect ourselves against potential product liability claims or we underestimate the amount of insurance we need, we could be exposed to significant liabilities, which may harm our business.  A product liability claim or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could result in significant costs and significant harm to our business.. We may implement a product recall or voluntary market withdrawal, which could significantly increase our costs, damage. 20. our reputation and disrupt our business.. The manufacturing, marketing and processing of our tissue products involves an inherent risk that our tissue products or processes do not meet applicable quality standards and requirements.  In that event, we may voluntarily implement a recall or market withdrawal or may be required to do so by a regulatory authority.  A recall or market withdrawal of one of our products would be costly and would divert management resources.  A recall or withdrawal of one of our products, or a similar product processed by another entity, also could impair sales of our products as a result of confusion concerning the scope of the recall or withdrawal, or as a result of the damage to our reputation for quality and safety.. Significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our business.. We rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems to operate our business. In the ordinary course of business, we collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information (including, but not limited to, personal information and intellectual property). We also have outsourced significant elements of our operations to third parties, including significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and, as a result, we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. The size and complexity of our information technology and information security systems, and those of our third-party vendors with whom we contract (and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them), make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors, or from malicous attacks by third parties. Such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including, but not limited to, industrial espionage and market manipulation) and expertise. While we have invested significantly in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches. Although we have cyber-insurance coverage that may cover certain events described above, this insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations and we may not be able to maintain this insurance. Also, it is possible that claims could exceed the limits of our coverage.  Any interruption or breach in our systems could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us or allow third parties to gain material, inside information that they use to trade in our securities.. We may not be successful in commercializing our CollaFix Technology.. We have invested substantial time and resources in developing various additional products using our CollaFix technology.  Further commercialization of this technology will require additional development, clinical evaluation, regulatory clearance or approval, significant marketing efforts and substantial additional investment before they can provide us with any revenue.  Despite our efforts, any such products may not become commercially successful products for a number of reasons, including:. · We may not be able to obtain regulatory clearance or approvals for such products, or the approved indication may be narrower than we seek;. · Such products may not prove to be safe and effective in preclinical or clinical trials;. · Physicians or hospitals may not receive any reimbursement from third party payers, or the level of reimbursement may be insufficient to support widespread adoption of such products;. · We may experience delays in our development programs;. · Any products that are approved may not be accepted in the marketplace by physicians or patients;. · We may not be able to manufacture any such products in commercial quantities or at an acceptable cost; and. · Rapid technological change may make such products obsolete.. We may expand our business through acquisitions, licenses, investments, and other commercial arrangements in other companies or technologies, which contain significant risks.. We periodically evaluate strategic opportunities to acquire companies, divisions, technologies, products, and rights through licenses, distribution agreements, investments, and outright acquisitions to grow our business. In connection with one or more of those transactions, we may:. 21. • Issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders' value;. • Use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business;. • Incur debt that could have terms unfavorable to us or that we might be unable to repay;. • Structure the transaction in a manner that has unfavorable tax consequences, such as a stock purchase that does not permit a step-up in the tax basis for the assets acquired;. • Be unable to realize the anticipated benefits, such as increased revenues, cost savings, or synergies from additional sales;. • Be unable to secure the services of key employees related to the acquisition; and. • Be unable to succeed in the marketplace with the acquisition.. Any of these items could materially, and adversely affect our revenues, financial condition, and profitability. Business acquisitions also involve the risk of unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business, which could be material. Incurring unknown liabilities or the failure to realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition could materially, and adversely affect our business if we are unable to recover our initial investment, which could include the cost of acquiring licenses or distribution rights, acquiring products, purchasing initial inventory, or investments in early stage companies. Inability to recover our investment, or any write off of such investment, associated goodwill, or assets, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our international expansion and operations in foreign markets expose us to risks associated with international sales and operations.. We are actively seeking to expand into foreign markets. Managing a global organization is difficult, time consuming, and expensive. Conducting international operations subjects us to risks that could be different than those faced by us in the United States. The sale and shipment of our products across international borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from international sources, subject us to extensive U.S. and foreign govermental trade, import and export and customs regulations and laws, including but not limited to, the Export Administration Regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Department of the Treasury, as well as the laws and regulations administered by the Department of Commerce. These regulations limit our ability to market, sell, distribute or otherwise transfer our products or technology to prohibited countries or persons.. Compliance with these regulations and law is costly, and failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could adversely affect us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments and restrictions on certain business activities. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our distribution and sales activities.. Other risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions include:. • lack of familiarity with and unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements;. • lack of stringent protection of intellectual property;. • obstacles to obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses and compliance with foreign laws;. • potentially adverse tax consequences and the complexities of foreign value-added tax systems;. • adverse changes in tariffs and trade restrictions;. • differing multiple payer reimbursement regimes, government payers or patient self-pay system;. • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;. • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations;. 22. • fluctuations in currency exchange rates;. • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and legal standards;. • availability of government subsidies or other incentives that benefit competitors in their local markets that are not available to us;. • increased financial reporting burdens and complexities; and. • political, social, and economic instability abroad.. These risks may limit or disrupt our expansion, restrict the movement of funds or result in the deprivation of contractual rights or the taking of property by nationalization or expropriation without fair compensation. Operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources.. New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks.. From time to time, we may implement or may acquire new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed or are evolving. In developing and marketing new lines of business and new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. External factors, such as regulatory compliance obligations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business or a new product or service. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business or new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise funds in the future, and such funds may not be available on acceptable terms or at all.. Continued expansion of our business will be expensive and we may seek funds from public and private stock offerings, borrowings under our existing or future credit facilities or other sources. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including:. • the revenues generated by sales of our products;. • the costs associated with expanding our sales and marketing efforts;. • the expenses we incur in manufacturing and selling our products;. • the costs of developing and commercializing new products or technologies;. • the cost of obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval or clearance of certain products and products in development;. • the number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions;. • the costs associated with our planned international expansion;. • the costs associated with capital expenditures; and. • unanticipated general and administrative expenses.. As as result of these factors, we may seek to raise capital, and such capital may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or debt securities to raise capital, our existing shareholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. In addition, if we raise capital through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our products, potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to use. If we cannot raise capital on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop to enhance our products, execute our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressure, changes in our supplier relationships,. 23. or unanticipated customer requirements. Any of these events could adversely affect our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which, if not remediated, could adversely affect our reputation, business or stock price.. In reviewing the Company's tax accounting in preparation for filing this Form 10-K, our management identified a deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting. Our management has concluded that this deficiency constitutes a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to our accounting for income taxes. As described under \"Item 9A - Controls and Procedures,\" as a result, our management has concluded that internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2016.  This was identified during the audit process prior to preparation of the Company's financial statements and,therefore did not result in a material misstatement of the Company's annual financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016 or any of our previously issued annual or interim consolidated financial statements.. Although we have developed and are implementing a plan to remediate this material weakness, we cannot assure you that this will occur within the contemplated timeframe. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will not identify additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. If we are unable to remediate the material weakness, our ability to record, process and report financial information accurately, and to prepare financial statements within the time periods specified by the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission, could be adversely affected. The occurrence of or failure to remediate the material weakness may adversely affect our reputation and business and the market price of our common stock and any other securities we may issue.. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property. Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents and other means is uncertain and may be inadequate, which could have a material and adverse effect on us.. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used in our products.  We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology, including our licensed technology.  These legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage.  In addition, our pending patent applications include claims to material aspects of our products and procedures that are not currently protected by issued patents.  The patent application process can be time consuming and expensive.  We cannot ensure that any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents.  Competitors may be able to design around our patents or develop products that provide outcomes that are comparable or even superior to ours.  Although we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, including entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with some of our officers, employees, consultants and advisors, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements.. The failure to obtain and maintain patents and/or protect our intellectual property rights could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.  Whether a patent is valid is a complex matter of science and law, and therefore we cannot be certain that, if challenged, our patents would be upheld.  If one or more of those patents are invalidated, that could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we might otherwise have had.. In the event a competitor infringes upon our licensed or pending patent or other intellectual property rights, enforcing those rights may be costly, uncertain, difficult and time consuming. Even if successful, litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights could be expensive and time consuming and could divert our management's attention.  Further, bringing litigation to enforce our patents subjects us to the potential for counterclaims.   Other companies or entities also have commenced, and may again commence, actions seeking to establish the invalidity of our patents. For example, the defendants in certain of our ongoing patent infringement suits have filed petitions for inter-partes review of certain of our patents with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). We intend to defend these actions vigorously, but there is no guarantee of success, and such effort takes financial and time resources from the Company. In the event that one or more of our patents are challenged, a court or the USPTO may invalidate the patent(s) or determine that the patent(s) is not enforceable, which could harm our competitive position. If the USPTO ultimately cancels or narrows the claim in any of our patents through these proceedings, it could prevent or hinder us from being able to enforce them against competitors.  Such adverse decisions could negatively impact our future, expected revenue.  See Item 3, Legal Proceedings for information regarding our ongoing patent. 24. infringement lawsuits and related inter-partes review proceedings.. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in certain foreign jurisdictions. This could make it difficult for us to stop infringement of our foreign patents, if obtained, or the misappropriation of our other intellectual property rights. For example, some foreign countries have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner must grant licenses to third parties. In addition, some countries limit the enforceability of patents against third parties, including government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, patents may provide limited or no benefit. Patent protection must ultimately be sought on a country-by-country basis, which is an expensive and time-consuming process with uncertain outcomes. Accordingly, we may choose not to seek patent protection in certain countries, and we will not have the benefit of patent protection in such countries. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Accordingly, our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights in such countries may be inadequate.. The prosecution and enforcement of patents licensed to us by third parties are not within our control, and without these technologies, our products may not be successful and our business would be harmed if the patents were infringed or misappropriated.. We have obtained licenses from third parties for patents and patent application rights related to our CollaFix technologies, allowing us to use intellectual property rights owned by or licensed to these third parties.  We do not control the maintenance, prosecution, enforcement or strategy for many of these patents or patent application rights and as such are dependent in part on the owners of the intellectual property rights to maintain their viability.  Their failure to do so could significantly impair our ability to exploit those technologies.. We may become subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others, which could prohibit us from developing our products, require us to obtain licenses from third parties or to develop non-infringing alternatives, and subject us to substantial monetary damages.. Third parties could assert that our products infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights.  Whether a product infringes a patent or other intellectual property involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain.  Therefore, we cannot be certain that we have not infringed the intellectual property rights of others.  Because patent applications may take years to issue, there also may be applications now pending of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our products or processes infringe.  There also may be existing patents or pending patent applications of which we are unaware that our products or processes may inadvertently infringe.. Any infringement claim could cause us to incur significant costs, place significant strain on our financial resources, divert management's attention from our business and harm our reputation.  If the relevant patents in such claim were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to infringe, we could be prohibited from selling any product that is found to infringe unless we could obtain licenses to use the technology covered by the patent or other intellectual property or are able to design around the patent or other intellectual property.  We may be unable to obtain such a license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement.  A court could also order us to pay compensatory damages for such infringement, plus prejudgment interest and could, in addition, treble the compensatory damages and award attorney fees.  These damages could be substantial and could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results.  A court also could enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enjoin us and our customers from making, using, or selling products, and could enter an order mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities.  Depending on the nature of the relief ordered by the court, we could become liable for additional damages to third parties.. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we, our employees, or our independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets, proprietary or confidential information of our competitors or are in breach of non-competition or non-solicitation agreements with our competitors.. Some of our employees were previously employed at other medical device, pharmaceutical or tissue companies. We may also hire additional employees who are currently employed at other medical device, pharmaceutical or tissue companies, including our competitors. Additionally, consultants or other independent agents with which we may contract may be or have been in a contractual arrangement with one or more of our competitors.  Although no claims are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that we, our employees, or our independent contractors have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of these former employers or competitors. In addition, we have been and may in the future be subject to claims that we caused an employee to breach the terms of his or her non-competition or non-solicitation agreement.  Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims.  Even if we are successful in defending against these. 25. claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.  If we fail to defend such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. There can be no assurance that this type of litigation will not continue, and any future litigation or the threat thereof may adversely affect our ability to hire additional direct sales representatives. A loss of key personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to market existing or new products, which could severely harm our business.. Our License Agreement for our CollaFix technology could be terminated.. Under our license agreement with Shriners' Hospitals for Children and University of South Florida Research Foundation dated January 29, 2007, it is possible for the licensor to terminate the agreement if we breach the license agreement and all of our cure rights are exhausted.  If our license agreement were to be terminated, our investment in the CollaFix technology would be lost.. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Products and Other Government Regulations. To the extent our products do not qualify for regulation as human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue-based products under Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act, this could result in removal of the applicable products from the market, would make the introduction of new tissue products more expensive and significantly delay the expansion of our tissue product offerings and subject us to additional post-market regulatory requirements.. The products we manufacture and process are derived from human tissue.  The FDA has specific regulations governing human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue-based products, or HCT/Ps. An HCT/P is a product containing or consisting of human cells or tissue intended for transplantation into a human patient.  HCT/Ps that meet the criteria for regulation solely under Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act (so-called \"361 HCT/Ps\") are not subject to any premarket clearance or approval requirements and are subject to less stringent post-market regulatory requirements.. If a product is deemed not to be a 361 HCT/P, FDA regulations will require premarket clearance or approval requirements that will involve significant time and cost investments by the Company.  Further, there can be no assurance that the FDA will not, at some future point, change its position on current or future products' 361 HCT/P status, and any regulatory reclassification could have adverse consequences for us and make it more difficult or expensive for us to conduct our business by requiring premarket clearance or approval and compliance with additional post-market regulatory requirements with respect to those products. Moreover, increased regulatory scrutiny within the industry in which we operate could lead to increased regulation of HCT/Ps, including 361 HCT/Ps.  We also cannot assure you that the FDA will not impose more stringent definitions with respect to products that qualify as 361 HCT/Ps.. See \"Government Regulation\" in Item 1 for a discussion of 361 HCT/Ps and the FDA's position on our products. If the FDA does allow the Company to continue to market a micronized form of its sheet allografts without a biologics license either prior to or after finalization of the draft guidance documents, it may impose conditions, such as labeling restrictions and compliance with cGMP. Although the Company is preparing for these requirements in connection with its pursuit of a BLA for certain of its micronized products, earlier compliance with these conditions would require significant additional time and cost investments by the Company. It is also possible that the FDA will not allow the Company to market any form of a micronized product without a biologics license even prior to finalization of the draft guidance documents and could even require the Company to recall its micronized products. Revenues from micronized products comprised approximately 10% of the Company's revenues in  2016.. Obtaining and maintaining the necessary regulatory approvals for certain of our products will be expensive and time-consuming and may impede our ability to fully exploit our technologies.. The process of obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals to market a biologic or medical device from the FDA or similar regulatory authorities outside of the United States is costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that such clearances or approvals will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. As discussed above, we intend to pursue approval of a Biologics License Application (BLA) for certain of our micronized products.  Additionally, the FDA may take the position that some of the other products that we currently market require a BLA as well.  Some of the future products and enhancements to our current products that we expect to develop and market may require marketing clearance or approval from the FDA. There can be no assurance, however, that clearance or approval will be granted with respect to any of our products or enhancements or that FDA review will not involve delays that would adversely affect our ability to market such products or enhancements.. The process of obtaining an approved BLA requires the expenditure of substantial time, effort and financial resources and may take years to complete. The fee for filing a BLA and the annual user fees payable with respect to any establishment that manufactures biologics and with respect to each approved product are substantial.  Additionally, there are significant costs. 26. associated with clinical trials that cannot be estimated until the IND is approved.  Moreover, data obtained from clinical activities are not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval.  The FDA may not grant approval on a timely basis, or at all.  Additionally, the FDA may limit the indications for use or place other conditions on any approvals that could restrict the commercial application of the products.  After approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims, are subject to further testing requirements and FDA review and approval.. Like the process of obtaining an approved BLA, the process of obtaining a PMA requires the expenditure of substantial time, effort and financial resources and may take years to complete. The FDA may not grant approval on a timely basis, or at  all.  Additionally, the FDA may limit the indications for use or place other conditions on any approvals that could restrict the commercial application of the products.  After approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims, are subject to further testing requirements and FDA review and approval.. Our business is subject to continuing regulatory compliance by the FDA and other authorities, which is costly and our failure to comply could result in negative effects on our business.. As discussed above, the FDA has specific regulations governing our tissue-based products, or HCT/Ps. The FDA has broad post-market and regulatory and enforcement powers.  The FDA's regulation of HCT/Ps includes requirements for registration and listing of products, donor screening and testing, processing and distribution (\"Current Good Tissue Practices\"), labeling, record keeping and adverse-reaction reporting, and inspection and enforcement.. Biologics and medical devices are subject to even more stringent regulation by the FDA. Even if pre-market clearance or approval is obtained, the approval or clearance may place substantial restrictions on the indications for which the product may be marketed or to whom it may be marketed, may require warnings to accompany the product or impose additional restrictions on the sale and/or use of the product.  In addition, regulatory approval is subject to continuing compliance with regulatory standards, including the FDA's quality system regulations.. If we fail to comply with the FDA regulations regarding our tissue products or medical devices, the FDA could take enforcement action, including, without limitation, any of the following sanctions and the manufacture of our products or processing of our tissue could be delayed or terminated:. • Untitled letters, warning letters, fines, injunctions, and civil penalties;. • Recall or seizure of our products;. • Operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production;. • Refusing our requests for  clearance or approval of new products;. • Withdrawing or suspending current applications for approval or approvals already granted;. • Refusal to grant export approval for our products; and. • Criminal prosecution.. It is likely that the FDA's regulation of HCT/Ps will continue to evolve in the future.  Complying with any such new regulatory requirements may entail significant time delays and expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The American Association of Tissue Banks (\"AATB\") has issued operating standards for tissue banking.  Compliance with these standards is a requirement in order to become an accredited tissue bank. In addition, some states have their own tissue banking regulations.. In addition, procurement of certain human organs and tissue for transplantation is subject to the restrictions of the National Organ Transplant Act (\"NOTA\"), which prohibits the transfer of certain human organs, including skin and related tissue for valuable consideration, but permits the reasonable payment associated with the removal, transportation, implantation, processing, preservation, quality control and storage of human tissue and skin.  We reimburse tissue banks, hospitals and physicians for their services associated with the recovery, storage and transportation of donated human tissue.  Although we have independent third party appraisals that confirm that reasonableness of the service fees we pay, if we were to be found to have violated NOTA's prohibition on the sale or transfer of human tissue for valuable consideration, we would potentially be. 27. subject to criminal enforcement sanctions, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Finally, as discussed above, we and other manufacturers of skin substitutes are required to provide ASP information to CMS on a quarterly basis. The Medicare payment rates are updated quarterly based on this ASP information. If a manufacturer is found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of ASP, such manufacturer is subject to civil monetary penalties of up to $10,000 for each misrepresentation for each day in which the misrepresentation was applied.. We and our sales representatives, whether employees or independent contractors, must comply with various federal and state anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and similar laws, any breach of which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our relationships with physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are subject to scrutiny under various federal anti-kickback, self-referral, false claims and similar laws, often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws.  Healthcare fraud and abuse laws are complex, and even minor, inadvertent violations can give rise to claims that the relevant law has been violated.  Possible sanctions for violation of these fraud and abuse laws include monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs, workers' compensation programs and TRICARE (the healthcare system administered by or on behalf of the U.S. Department of Defense for uniformed services beneficiaries, including active duty and their dependents, retirees and their dependents), and forfeiture of amounts collected in violation of such prohibitions.  Certain states have similar fraud and abuse laws, imposing substantial penalties for violations.  Any Government investigation or a finding of a violation of these laws would likely result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Anti-kickback laws and regulations prohibit any knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for the referral of an individual or the ordering or recommending of the use of a product or service for which payment may be made by Medicare, Medicaid or other Government-sponsored healthcare programs.  We have entered into consulting agreements, speaker agreements, research agreements and product development agreements with physicians, including some who may order our products or make decisions to use them.  In addition, some of these physicians own our stock, which they purchased in arm's length transactions on terms identical to those offered to non-physicians, or received stock awards from us as consideration for services performed by them.  While these transactions were structured with the intention of complying with all applicable laws, including state anti-referral laws and other applicable anti-kickback laws, it is possible that regulatory or enforcement agencies or courts may in the future view these transactions as prohibited arrangements that must be restructured or for which we would be subject to other significant civil or criminal penalties.  As discussed above, we have incorporated the AdvaMed code principles into our relationships with healthcare professionals under our consulting agreements,  and our policies regarding payment of travel and lodging expenses, research and educational grant procedures and sponsorship of third-party conferences.  In addition, we have conducted training sessions on these principles. However, there can be no assurance that regulatory or enforcement authorities will view these arrangements as being in compliance with applicable laws or that one or more of our employees or agents will not disregard the rules we have established.  Because our strategy relies on the involvement of physicians who consult with us on the design of our products, perform clinical research on our behalf or educate the market about the efficacy and uses of our products, we could be materially impacted if regulatory or enforcement agencies or courts interpret our financial relationships with physicians who refer or order our products to be in violation of applicable laws and determine that we would be unable to achieve compliance with such applicable laws.  This could harm our reputation and the reputations of the physicians we engage to provide services on our behalf.  In addition, the cost of noncompliance with these laws could be substantial since we could be subject to monetary fines and civil or criminal penalties, and we could also be excluded from federally-funded healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, for non-compliance.. The Federal False Claims Act (\"FCA\") imposes civil liability on any person or entity that submits, or causes the submission of, a false or fraudulent claim to the U.S. Government. Damages under the FCA can be significant and consist of the imposition of fines and penalties.  The FCA also allows a private individual or entity with knowledge of past or present fraud against the Federal Government to sue on behalf of the Government to recover the civil penalties and treble damages.  The U.S. Department of Justice (\"DOJ\") on behalf of the Government has previously alleged that the marketing and promotional practices of pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, including the off-label promotion of products or the payment of prohibited kickbacks to doctors, violated the FCA, resulting in the submission of improper claims to federal and state healthcare entitlement programs such as Medicaid.  In certain cases, manufacturers have entered into criminal and civil settlements with the federal government under which they entered into plea agreements, paid substantial monetary amounts and entered into corporate integrity agreements that require, among other things, substantial reporting and remedial actions going forward.. 28. In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians for marketing. Some states, such as California, Massachusetts and Vermont, mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs, along with the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation and other remuneration to physicians. The shifting commercial compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with different compliance and/or reporting requirements in multiple jurisdictions increase the possibility that a healthcare company may run afoul of one or more of the requirements.. The scope and enforcement of all of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations.  There can be no assurance that federal or state regulatory or enforcement authorities will not investigate or challenge our current or future activities under these laws.  Any investigation or challenge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Any state or federal regulatory or enforcement review of us, regardless of the outcome, would be costly and time consuming.  Additionally, we cannot predict the impact of any changes in these laws, whether these changes are retroactive or will have effect on a going-forward basis only.. We face significant uncertainty in the industry due to Government healthcare reform.. There have been and continue to be proposals by the Federal Government, State Governments, regulators and third party payers to control healthcare costs, and generally, to reform the healthcare system in the United States.  There are many programs and requirements for which the details have not yet been fully established or the consequences are not fully understood.  These proposals may affect aspects of our business.  We also cannot predict what further reform proposals, if any, will be adopted, when they will be adopted, or what impact they may have on us.. We may fail to obtain or maintain foreign regulatory approvals to market our products in other countries.. We currently market our products internationally and intend to expand our international marketing. International jurisdictions require separate regulatory approvals and compliance with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedures vary among countries and may involve requirements for additional testing. Certain of our products require clearance or approval by the FDA. However, such clearance or approval does not ensure approval or certification by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval or certification by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval or certification by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. The foreign regulatory approval or certification process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA clearance or approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals or certifications and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. If we fail to receive necessary approvals or certifications to commercialize our products in foreign jurisdictions on a timely basis, or at all, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock. The price of our common stock has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile.. The market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of many other companies that are in, or are just emerging from, the development stage, has fluctuated over a wide range and it is likely that the price of our common stock will fluctuate in the future.  The market price of our common stock could be impacted by a variety of factors, including:. · Fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies or of the markets generally;. · Our ability to successfully launch, market and earn significant revenue from our products;. · Our ability to obtain additional financing to support our continuing operations;. · Disclosure of the details and results of regulatory applications and proceedings;. · Changes in Government regulations or our failure to comply with any such regulations;. · Additions or departures of key personnel;. · Our investments in research and development or other corporate resources;. · Announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors;. · Developments in the patents or other proprietary rights owned or licensed by us or our competitors;. 29. · The timing of new product introductions;. · Actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, including any restatements of previously reported results;. · Our ability to effectively and consistently manufacture our products and avoid costs associated with the recall of defective or potentially defective products;. · Our ability and the ability of our distribution partners to market and sell our products;. · Changes in reimbursement for our products or the price for our products to our customers;. · Removal of our products from the Federal Supply Schedule, or changes in how Government accounts purchase products such as ours or in the price for our products to Government accounts;. · Material amounts of short-selling of our common stock; and. .  The other risks detailed in this Item 1A.. Further, due to the relatively fixed nature of most of our costs, which primarily include personnel costs as well as facilities costs, any unanticipated shortfall in revenue in any fiscal quarter would have an adverse effect on our results of operations in that quarter.  These fluctuations could cause the trading price of our stock to be negatively affected. Our quarterly operating results have varied substantially in the past and may vary substantially in the future.  In addition, the stock market and certain of the indices on which we are included has been very volatile in the recent past.  This volatility is often not related to the operating performance of companies listed thereon and will probably continue in the foreseeable future.. Securities analysts may elect not to report on our common stock or may issue negative reports that adversely affect the stock price.. At this time, six securities analysts provide research coverage of our common stock.  However, there is no assurance that these analysts will continue to report on our common stock or that additional analysts will initiate reporting on our common stock.  Rules mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and a global settlement reached in 2003 among the SEC, other regulatory agencies, and a number of investment banks led to a number of fundamental changes in how analysts are reviewed and compensated.  In particular, many investment banking firms are required to contract with independent financial analysts for their stock research.  If securities analysts discontinue covering our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect its actual and potential market price.  The trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about our business.  If one or more analysts elect to cover us and then downgrade the stock, the stock price would likely decline rapidly.  If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline.  This could have a negative effect on the market price of our shares.. Our charges to earnings resulting from acquisition, restructuring and integration costs may materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock.. We account for the completion of our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. We allocate the total estimated purchase prices to net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the acquisitions, record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. Our financial results, including earnings per share, could be adversely affected by a number of financial adjustments required in purchase accounting including the following:. • We will incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions during such estimated useful lives.. • We will incur additional depreciation expense as a result of recording purchased tangible assets.. • To the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets.. • Cost of sales may increase temporarily following an acquisition as a result of acquired inventory being recorded at its fair market value.. 30. • Earnings may be affected by changes in estimates of future contingent consideration to be paid when an earn-out is part of the consideration.. • Earnings may be affected by transaction and implementation costs, which are expensed immediately.. We do not intend to pay cash dividends.. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently expect to use available funds and any future earnings in the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.  In addition, the terms of our existing credit facility restrict us from paying dividends.  As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be an investor's only source of potential gain from our common stock for the foreseeable future.. We are currently, and may in the future be, subject to other claims and lawsuits that could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and result in harm to our business.. We, as well as certain of our officers and sales representatives, are subject to claims or lawsuits from time to time. Regardless of the outcome, these lawsuits may result in significant legal fees and expenses and could divert management's time and other resources. In addition, the volatility in our stock price may make us more vulnerable to future class action litigation.. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors engaged outside counsel to conduct an investigation that generally included a review of whether or not we have properly recognized revenue arising out of claims of former employees with whom we are currently in litigation. See Item 3 - Legal Proceedings for a discussion of the litigation. To date, we have incurred significant expense related to legal, accounting, and other professional services in connection with the investigation and related matters, and may continue to incur significant additional expenses with regard to these matters. The expenses incurred, and expected to be incurred, on the investigation, and the diversion of the attention of the management team that has occurred, has adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition and results of operations or cash flows.. As a result of the matters reported above, we are exposed to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. Any future such investigations or additional lawsuits may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. Any adverse judgment in or settlement of any pending or any future litigation could require payments that exceed the limits of our available directors' and officers' liability insurance, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition.. Provisions of Florida law and anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage or prevent a change of control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to shareholders, which could affect our share price adversely and prevent attempts by shareholders to remove current management.. We are subject to the Florida affiliated transactions statute, which generally requires approval by the disinterested directors or supermajority approval by shareholders for \"affiliated transactions\" between a corporation and an \"interested stockholder.\" Additionally our organizational documents contain provisions:. · Authorizing the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by the Board of Directors without prior common stock shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of the common stock;. · Restricting persons who may call shareholder meetings;. · Electing directors on a staggered basis; and. . Allowing the Board to fill vacancies and to fix the number of directors.. These provisions of Florida law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws could negatively affect our share price, prevent attempts by shareholders to remove current management, prohibit or delay mergers or other takeovers or changes of control of the Company and discourage attempts by other companies to acquire us, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our shareholders."
