[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (the “10-K”) and the exhibits hereto, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition and/or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements set forth immediately prior to the beginning of Item 1 of the 10-K. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. The following list sets forth many, but not all, of the factors that could impact the Company’s ability to achieve results discussed in any forward-looking statement. Investors should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.. 7. Risks Related to Our Business. We are subject to extensive medical device regulation which may impede or hinder the approval process for our products and, in some cases, may not ultimately result in approval or may result in the recall or seizure of previously approved products.. Our products, development activities and manufacturing processes are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation in the United States by the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the “FDC Act”), by comparable agencies in foreign countries, and by other regulatory agencies and governing bodies. Under the FDC Act, medical devices must receive FDA clearance or approval before they can be commercially marketed in the U.S. In addition, most major markets for medical devices outside the U.S. require clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. The process of obtaining marketing approval or clearance from the FDA for new products, or with respect to enhancements or modifications to existing products, could:. <U+25CF>take a significant amount of time;. <U+25CF>require the expenditure of substantial resources;. <U+25CF>involve rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing;. <U+25CF>require changes to the products; and. <U+25CF>result in limitations on the proposed uses of the products.. Marketing approvals or clearances are not the only risk. The FDA, and other regulatory bodies, also can require the withdrawal of an approved or cleared product from commercial distribution due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems.. As a medical device manufacturer, we are required to register with the FDA and are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. In addition, FDA regulations require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a medical device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. In the European Union and China, we are required to maintain certain ISO certifications in order to sell our products and must undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. Failure to meet regulatory quality standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will receive the required clearances from the FDA or other regulatory bodies for new products or modifications to existing products on a timely basis or that any FDA approval will not be subsequently withdrawn. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer could result in fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecution. The failure to receive product approval clearance on a timely basis, suspensions of regulatory clearances, seizures or recalls of products or the withdrawal of product approval by the FDA or other regulatory bodies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights.. Patents and other proprietary rights are and will be essential to our business and our ability to compete effectively with other companies. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations, strategic alliances and licensing opportunities to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive position. We pursue a policy of generally obtaining patent protection in both the U.S. and abroad for patentable subject matter in our proprietary devices and also attempt to review third-party patents and patent applications to the extent publicly available to develop an effective patent strategy, avoid infringement of third-party patents, identify licensing opportunities and monitor the patent claims of others. We currently own numerous U.S. and foreign patents. We also are party to various license agreements pursuant to which patent rights have been obtained or granted in consideration for cash or royalty payments. No assurance can be made that any pending or future patent applications will result in issued patents, that any current or future patents issued to, or licensed by, us will not be challenged or circumvented by our competitors, or that our patents will not be found invalid.. 8. We also operate in an industry that is susceptible to significant intellectual property litigation and it has been common for companies in the medical device field to aggressively challenge the patent rights of other companies in order to prevent the marketing of new devices. Intellectual property litigation is expensive, complex and lengthy and its outcome is difficult to predict. Future patent litigation may result in significant royalty or other payments or injunctions that can prevent the sale of products and may significantly divert the attention of our technical and management personnel.. In addition, we may have to take legal action in the future to protect our patents, trade secrets or know-how or to assert our intellectual property rights against claimed infringement by others. Any legal action of that type could be costly and time consuming to us and no assurances can be made that any lawsuit will be successful.. The invalidation of key patents or proprietary rights that we own, or an unsuccessful outcome in lawsuits to protect our intellectual property, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the event that our right to market any of our products is successfully challenged, or if we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Future product liability claims and other litigation may adversely affect our business, reputation and ability to attract and retain customers.. The design, manufacture and marketing of medical device products of the types that we produce entail an inherent risk of product liability claims. A number of factors could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient with respect to these or other products that we manufacture or sell, including component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information. These factors could result in product liability claims, a recall of one or more of our products or a safety alert relating to one or more of our products. Product liability claims may be brought by individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class.. We have a recent history of net losses.. We have experienced losses from continuing operations during the last three fiscal years. The loss from continuing operations before income taxes was approximately $2.4 million for the 2018 fiscal year, and the accumulated deficit was approximately $15.5 million as of June 30, 2018. There can be no assurance that we will be able to return to operating profitability in the near-term or at all. As of June 30, 2018, we had a cash balance of approximately $11.0 million. Although we believe this amount is sufficient to finance our operations for at least the next 12 months, there can be no assurance that this will provide sufficient liquidity for longer-term operations or initiatives. Our cash flows may be impacted by a number of factors, including changing market conditions, market acceptance of our new and existing products, and the loss of one or more key customers. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in raising additional capital if the need arises. The failure to raise any necessary additional capital on acceptable terms, or at all, may have a material adverse effect on our future business and results of operations.. Anyone or any company can bring an action against Misonix, including private securities litigation and shareholder derivative suits, and adverse litigation results could affect our business.. Our judicial system allows anyone, including shareholders, to bring a claim against the Company and force the Company to defend itself even if the claim is baseless. The defense may or may not be covered by the Company’s insurance, the result of which could ultimately create a burden on the Company dependent upon the outcome.. 9. Litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and results cannot be predicted with certainty. An adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our financial condition or results of operations.. On April 5, 2017, the Company’s former distributor in China, Cicel (Beijing) Science & Technology Co., Ltd., filed a lawsuit against the Company and certain officers and directors of the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York, alleging that the Company improperly terminated its contract with the former distributor. The complaint sought various remedies, including compensatory and punitive damages, specific performance and preliminary and post judgment injunctive relief, and asserted various causes of action, including breach of contract, unfair competition, tortious interference with contract, fraudulent inducement, and conversion. On October 7, 2017, the court granted the Company’s motion to dismiss all of the tort claims asserted against it, and also granted the individual defendants’ motion to dismiss all claims asserted against them. The only claim remaining in the case is for breach of contract against the Company. The Company believes it has various legal and factual defenses to the allegations in the complaint, and intends to vigorously defend the action. The case is at its earliest stages; discovery is just beginning and there is no trial date.. On June 6, 2017, Irving Feldbaum, an individual shareholder of Misonix, filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The complaint alleges claims against the Company’s board of directors, its former CEO and CFO, certain of its former directors, and the Company as a nominal defendant for alleged violations of Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and state law claims for breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment. The complaint alleges that the Company incurred damages as a result of alleged false and misleading statements in the Company’s securities filings concerning the Company’s business, operations, and prospects and the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. The complaint also alleges that the Company’s February 4, 2016 Proxy Statement contained false and misleading statements regarding executive compensation. The complaint seeks the recovery of damages on behalf of the Company and the implementation of changes to corporate governance procedures. On June 16, 2017, Michael Rubin, another individual shareholder of Misonix, filed a case alleging similar claims in the same district court. On July 21, 2017, the district court consolidated the two actions for all purposes. On July 16, 2018, the Company and counsel for Mr. Feldbaum and Mr. Rubin informed the District Court that the parties had reached a settlement in principle. There are aspects of the settlement that remain to be negotiated and documented, and the settlement is subject to approval by the District Court after notice to the Company’s shareholders.. Violation of anti-corruption laws could subject the Company to significant penalties which would materially affect our business and liquidity.. We are required to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions around the world where we do business. Compliance with these laws has been subject to increasing focus and activity by regulatory authorities in recent years. Actions by our employees, or third-party intermediaries acting on our behalf, in violation of such laws, whether carried out in the United States or elsewhere in connection with the conduct of our business may expose us to liability for violations of the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws and accordingly may have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business, financial condition or results of operations.. With the assistance of outside counsel, the Company conducted a voluntary investigation into the business practices of the independent Chinese entity that previously distributed its products in China and the Company’s knowledge of those business practices, which may have implications under the FCPA, as well as into various internal controls issues identified during the investigation.. On September 27, 2016 and September 28, 2016, the Company voluntarily contacted the SEC and the DOJ, respectively, to advise both agencies of these potential issues. The Company has provided and will continue to provide documents and other information to the SEC and the DOJ, and is cooperating fully with these agencies in their ongoing investigations of these matters.. Although the Company’s investigation is complete, additional issues or facts could arise which may expand the scope or severity of the potential violations. The Company has no current information derived from the investigation or otherwise to suggest that its previously reported financial statements and results are incorrect.. 10. At this stage, the Company is unable to predict what, if any, action the DOJ or the SEC may take or what, if any, penalties or remedial measures these agencies may seek. Nor can the Company predict the impact on the Company as a result of these matters, which may include the imposition of fines, civil and criminal penalties, which are not currently estimable, as well as equitable remedies, including disgorgement of any profits earned from improper conduct and injunctive relief, limitations on the Company’s conduct, and the imposition of a compliance monitor. The DOJ and the SEC periodically have based the amount of a penalty or disgorgement in connection with an FCPA action, at least in part, on the amount of profits that a company obtained from the business in which the violations of the FCPA occurred. During its distributorship relationship with the prior Chinese distributor from 2010 through 2016, the Company generated revenues of approximately $8 million.. Further, the Company may suffer other civil penalties or adverse impacts, including lawsuits by private litigants in addition to the lawsuits that already have been filed, or investigations and fines imposed by local authorities. The investigative costs to date are approximately $3.0 million, of which approximately $0.5 million, $2.4 million and $0.1 million was charged to general and administrative expenses during the years ended June 30, 2018, 2017 and 2016 respectively.. Our future growth is dependent upon the development of new products and line extensions, which requires significant research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals, all of which are very expensive and time-consuming and may not result in a commercially viable product.. In order to develop new products and improve current product offerings, we focus our research and development programs largely on the development of next-generation and novel technology offerings across multiple programs and opportunities.. As a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance from the FDA for new products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations and trial endpoints. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials conducted by us, by our competitors or by third parties, or the market’s perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals from the FDA, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate and our business, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects.. New products may not be accepted by customers in the marketplace.. We are now, and will continue to be, developing new products and introducing them into the market. There can be no assurance that any new product will be accepted by the market. New products are sometimes introduced into the market in a prototype format and may need later revisions or design changes before they operate in a manner to be accepted in the market. As a result of the introduction of new products, there is some risk that revenue expectations may not be met and in some cases the product may not achieve market acceptance.. We face intense competition and may not be able to keep pace with the rapid technological changes in the medical device industry.. The medical device product market is highly competitive. We encounter significant competition across our product lines and in each market in which our products are sold from various medical device companies, most of which have greater financial and marketing resources than we do.. Additionally, the medical device product market is characterized by extensive research and development and rapid technological change. Developments by other companies of new or improved products, processes or technology may make our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive and may negatively impact our revenues. In some cases foreign companies may attempt to copy our designs illegally. We are required to devote continued efforts and financial resources to develop or acquire scientifically advanced technologies and products, apply our technologies cost-effectively across product lines and markets, attract and retain skilled development personnel, obtain patent and other protection for our technology and products, obtain required regulatory and reimbursement approvals and successfully manufacture and market our products. Failure to develop new products or enhance existing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 11. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to demands for price concessions or the exclusion of the Company as supplier from certain of our significant market segments.. The cost of healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade and numerous initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party payers to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry, including hospitals. This in turn has resulted in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our hospital customers. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers and competitors, which may reduce competition, exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may experience disruption in supply due to our dependence on our suppliers to continue to ship product requirements and our inability to obtain suppliers of certain components for our products.. Our suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including poor business practices, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunctions, labor shortages or environmental factors. In addition, we purchase both raw materials used in our products and finished goods from various suppliers and may have to rely on a single source supplier for certain components of our products where there are no alternatives are available. Although we anticipate that we have adequate sources of supply and/or inventory of these components to handle our production needs for the foreseeable future, if we are unable to secure on a timely basis sufficient quantities of the materials we depend on to manufacture our products, if we encounter delays or contractual or other difficulties in our relationships with these suppliers, or if we cannot find suppliers at an acceptable cost, then the manufacture of our products may be disrupted, which could increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business.. If we fail to manage any expansion or acquisition, our business could be impaired.. We may in the future acquire one or more technologies, products or companies that complement our business. We may not be able to effectively integrate these into our business and any such acquisition could bring additional risks, exposures and challenges to the Company. In addition, acquisitions may dilute our earnings per share, disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses, subject us to liabilities and increase our risk of litigation, all of which could harm our business. If we use cash to acquire technologies, products, or companies, such use may divert resources otherwise available for other purposes. If we use our common stock to acquire technologies, products, or companies, our shareholders may experience substantial dilution. If we fail to manage any expansions or acquisition, our business could be impaired.. Our agreements and contracts entered into with partners and other third parties may not be successful.. We signed in the past and may pursue in the future agreements and contracts with third parties to assist in our marketing, manufacturing, selling and distribution efforts. We cannot assure you that any agreements or contracts entered into will be successful.. The fluctuation of our quarterly results may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.. Our revenues and results of operations have in the past and will likely vary in the future from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. You should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future quarters, our results of operations may be below the expectations of the Company’s public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our common stock may fall.. 12. We may not be able to attract and retain additional key management, sales and marketing and technical personnel, or we may lose existing key management, sales and marketing or technical personnel, which may delay our development and marketing efforts.. We depend on a number of key management, sales and marketing and technical personnel. The loss of the services of one or more key employees could delay the achievement of our development and marketing objectives. Our success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain additional highly qualified management, sales and marketing and technical personnel to meet our growth goals. We face intense competition for qualified personnel, many of whom are often subject to competing employment offers, and we do not know whether we will be able to attract and retain such personnel.. Future changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may cause adverse or unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations.. A change in accounting standards or practices or a change in existing taxation rules or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.. The Affordable Healthcare for America Act includes provisions that may adversely affect our business and results of operations, including an excise tax on the sales of most medical devices.. On March 21, 2010, the House of Representatives passed the Affordable Health Care for America Act, which President Obama signed into law on March 23, 2010. With a new administration in place, changes may be made to the Affordable Health Care Act, or it may be repealed and replaced. The potential impact of these events may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The medical device tax has been established, however through an act of Congress, the excise tax was suspended from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2017. On January 22, 2018, Congress passed another suspension of the tax from January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2020.. We are experiencing greater scrutiny and regulation by governmental authorities, which may lead to greater regulation in the future.. Our medical devices and our business activities are subject to rigorous regulation, including by the FDA, the DOJ and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities including the imposition of international trade sanctions and tariffs. Certain state governments and the federal government have enacted legislation aimed at increasing transparency of our interactions with health care providers. Any failure to comply with these legal and regulatory requirements could impact our business.. Risk of reprocessing disposables.. In some jurisdictions around the world, culture and practice encourages reuse of disposable products when the product is clearly labeled for single use. Such reuse may expose us to liability in these jurisdictions."
