[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common shares involves various risks and uncertainties.  The risks described in this section are among those that, as of the filing date of this Report, could, directly or indirectly, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as on the value of our common shares.. Risks Related to the Sale of Certain Business Lines and Assets. We are exposed to the risk that the Buyer may fail to meet its payment obligations to us in connection with financing that we provided to facilitate the sale of certain business lines and assets.. On January 8, 2018, the Company provided seller financing associated with the Disposition and received a $57 million note from the Buyer that has a term of seven years, is prepayable at any time and bears interest at the rate of 5% per annum.  The unpaid principal balance on the note will amortize in 20 equal quarterly payments of $2.85 million beginning on March 31, 2020.  This note has certain net worth, leverage ratio, debt service coverage ratio and interest coverage ratio covenants.  Notwithstanding these financial covenants to the extent the Buyer does not meet its payment obligations under the terms of the note it could result in a decrease in the number and dollar value of our investments, or a decline in the rate of growth of such investments, any of which could adversely impact our revenues, cash flows and financial condition.  If the Buyer fails to repay the note and we are unable to realize the value of the collateral, our business, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected.. Risks Associated with Our Relationship with Our External Manager. We no longer have any employees and we are therefore completely dependent upon the External Manager to provide all of the services we need, including finding suitable investments, conducting our operations and maintaining regulatory compliance.. Because we have no employees, we are completely dependent on the External Manager to find and close suitable investments on our behalf and to conduct all of our operations.  Although our former employees have become employees of the External Manager, the External Manager is not obligated to require these, or any other, employees to devote their time exclusively to us.  As a result, the employees may not devote sufficient time to the management of our business operations, and in particular to sourcing and placing investments with us.  Further, the Management  Agreement does not require the External Manager to dedicate specific personnel to our operations and none of our former employees' continued service is guaranteed.  If these individuals leave the External Manager or are reallocated to other activities of the External Manager or its affiliates, the External Manager may be unable to replace them with persons with appropriate experience, or at all, and we may not be able to execute our business plan or maintain compliance with applicable regulatory requirements.. 10. In addition, we can offer no assurance that the External Manager will remain our manager or that we will have access to the External Manager's officers and key personnel.  The current term of the Management Agreement extends to December 31, 2022 and will be automatically renewed for additional two-year terms.  The External Manager may elect not to renew the Management Agreement effective upon the expiration of the initial term or any automatic renewal term, both upon 12 months' prior written notice.  If the Management Agreement is terminated and no suitable replacement is found to manage us, we may not be able to execute our business plan.. Various termination provisions in the Management  Agreement, including termination by us without cause, require us to pay the External Manager a substantial termination fee, which could deter termination or adversely affect our results of operations.. The initial term of our Management Agreement extends to December 31, 2022 and, unless terminated, the Management Agreement will automatically renew for additional two-year terms.  We may elect not to renew the Management Agreement effective upon the expiration of the initial term or any automatic renewal term, both upon 12 months' prior written notice.  However, if we elect not to renew the Management Agreement on this basis, we are required to pay the External Manager a termination fee equal to three times the average annual management fee and incentive compensation earned by, plus one times the average annual amount of certain reimbursements received by, the External Manager during the 24-month period immediately preceding the effective date of termination, which could cause the termination fee to be substantial.  These provisions may make it costly and difficult for us not to renew the Management Agreement.  If we are required to pay the termination fee as a result of any termination, our results of operations and our shareholders' equity will be adversely affected.. If we terminate the Management Agreement without cause, we cannot hire the External Manager's employees, including our former employees, which could make it difficult for us to conduct our operations following any such termination.. If we terminate the Management  Agreement without cause, we may not, for a period of two years, without the consent of the External Manager, employ any employee of the External Manager or any of its affiliates, or any person who was employed by the External  Manager or any of its affiliates at any time within the two-year period immediately preceding the date we hire such person.  This restriction applies to all of our former employees except that, if we have paid the termination fee described above, we may hire persons serving in the capacity of Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer/President and Chief Financial Officer.  The inability to hire the External Manager's employees could make it difficult for us to terminate the Management Agreement since we will need to find a new external manager or hire all new employees.. The fixed percentage component of the management fee payable to the External Manager is payable regardless of our performance.. The External Manager is entitled to receive a management fee from us that is based on a fixed percentage of our GAAP common shareholders' equity, regardless of the performance of our investment portfolio.  For example, we would owe the External Manager a management fee for a specific period even if we experienced a net loss during that period.  The External Manager's entitlement to a fee based on a fixed percentage of our GAAP common shareholders' equity may encourage the External Manager to invest in riskier assets in order to grow the equity base upon which the fee is paid and may reduce its incentive to find investments that provide appropriate risk-adjusted returns for our investment portfolio.  Similarly, the incentive compensation payable to the External Manager is based on year-over-year increases in diluted GAAP common shareholders' equity per share, which could also encourage the External Manager to invest in riskier assets.. External Manager's liability is limited under the Management Agreement and we have agreed to indemnify the External Manager against certain liabilities.. Under the terms of the Management Agreement, the External Manager does not assume any responsibility other than to render the services called for thereunder in good faith and is not responsible for any action of our board of directors in following or declining to follow any advice or recommendations of the External Manager, including as set forth in the investment guidelines.  Under the terms of the Management Agreement, the External Manager and its affiliates and their respective directors, officers, employees, managers, trustees, control persons, partners, stockholders and equity holders are not liable to us, our directors, stockholders or any subsidiary of ours, or their equity holders or partners for any acts or omissions performed in accordance with and pursuant to the Management Agreement, whether by or through attempted piercing of the corporate veil, by or through a claim, by the enforcement of any judgment or assessment or any legal or equitable proceeding, or by virtue of any statute, regulation or other applicable law, or otherwise, except by reason of acts or omissions constituting bad faith, actual and intentional fraud, willful misconduct, gross negligence or reckless disregard of their duties under the Management Agreement.  We have agreed to indemnify the External Manager and its affiliates and their respective directors, officers, employees, managers, trustees, control persons, partners, stockholders and equity holders with respect to all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims arising from their acts or omissions not constituting bad faith, actual and intentional fraud, willful misconduct, gross negligence or reckless disregard of their duties under the Management Agreement.  As a result, we could experience poor performance or losses for which the External Manager would not be liable.. 11. Affiliates of the External Manager are engaged in similar businesses to ours and the External Manager may have conflicts of interest which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our shareholders.. We are subject to conflicts of interest arising out of our relationship with Hunt, including the External Manager and its affiliates.  The External Manager may be presented with investment opportunities that we would find attractive, but which it offers instead to its affiliates, some of which are engaged in businesses similar to ours.  There is no guarantee that the policies and procedure adopted by us, the terms and conditions of the Management Agreement or the policies and procedures adopted by the External Manager and Hunt, will enable us to identify, adequately address or mitigate all potential conflicts of interest.  These factors could adversely impact our ability to make investments with attractive risk adjusted returns.. Risks Related to Our Business. Increases in interest rates and credit spreads may adversely affect the fair value of our assets and increase our costs of borrowing.. Investments in our bond portfolio and other fixed rate financial instruments that are reported at fair value in our financial statements expose us to changes in interest rates and credit spreads.  These instruments include our investments in bonds, loans held-for-sale and derivative financial instruments.. Interest rates can fluctuate for a number of reasons, including as a result of changes in the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies.  Interest rates can also fluctuate as a result of geopolitical events or changes in general economic conditions, including events or conditions that alter investor demand for Treasury or other fixed-income securities.. Changes in market conditions, including changes in interest rates, liquidity, prepayment and/or default expectations, and the level of uncertainty in the market for a particular asset class, may cause fluctuations in credit spreads.. If interest rates increase or credit spreads widen, the fair value of our investments in bonds and other fixed rate financial instruments (whose fair value measurements are based upon contractual cash flows) will generally decline and, therefore, have a negative effect on our financial results and net worth.  Declines in the fair value of these instruments could be significant in such circumstances.. If short-term interest rates rise, our borrowing costs would increase and our net income would decline as interest payments associated with a significant portion of our debt obligations are indexed to short-term interest rates and, therefore, would increase.  However, the Company may, from time to time, enter into agreements with third parties that are designed to manage a portion of this risk.. Changes in capitalization and interest rates may adversely impact the fair value of our investments in non-performing bonds, investments in subordinate cash flow bonds, certain TRS and other real estate-related investments.. For non-performing bonds, subordinate cash flow bonds and certain TRS derivatives that are reported at fair value in our financial statements, the Company measures the fair value of such instruments based upon internally-generated, 10-year projections of future net operating income from the underlying properties that serve as collateral for such instruments (a terminal value is added to these projections to estimate remaining property value that is expected to be realized at the end of the projection period).  In this regard, an increase in capitalization and interest rates generally would cause a decline in the fair value of these investments, as well as that of our other direct real estate investments.  Additionally, the value of our real estate-related interests in the portion of our LIHTC business line that we retained is dependent upon the residual value of multifamily rental properties, which will generally decline if capitalization and discount rates increase.. The magnitude of changes in the value of our real estate-related interests could vary from market to market as a result of differences in capitalization and discount rates.. TRSs are important to financing our U.S. Operations and for other purposes and we are exposed to various risks associated with such agreements.. A TRS is an agreement that requires one party to make interest payments based on either a fixed or floating rate of interest in exchange for payments from its counterparty that are based on the return of a referenced asset that is typically an index, a loan or a bond.  The Company has financed its ownership of a majority of its investments in bonds through such agreements.  All payments under this type of agreement are calculated based upon contractually-specified notional amounts.  In a typical TRS agreement, we are required to make interest payments that are based on a floating rate of interest and our counterparty is required to make payments to us that reflect the total return associated with a referenced asset.  Cash flows associated with this type of agreement are subject to risks associated with the referenced asset (including interest rate and real estate-related risks) and are exposed to the credit risk of both the obligor on the referenced asset and our counterparty to a TRS agreement.  To the extent the fair value of a referenced asset declines, we are at risk of having to provide additional collateral to our TRS counterparty.  If we were unable to post additional collateral in such circumstances, the referenced asset might be sold at a time when its full value could not be achieved and our existing collateral would be at risk of being retained by our TRS counterparty.  As the TRS agreements mature or are terminated, we need to make our counterparty whole and to the extent that the referenced asset value is less than the notional amount of the TRS, we would need to pay the difference in cash and if we are unable to do so, we have the risk of our collateral being retained.. 12. Currently, our TRS agreements are with one financial institution.  At least in the near term, entering into new TRS agreements, or extending existing agreements, is a significant part of our U.S. Operations.  To the extent we are unable to execute these types of agreements in the future, we may be unable to achieve our near-term goals and our financial position could suffer significantly.. Cash flows from our Bond Portfolio and our other real estate-related investments are exposed to various risks associated with real estate to which our investments are related.. Because a substantial portion of our investments are secured by real estate or consist of real estate or investments in entities that own real estate, the value of these investments is exposed to various real estate-related risks.  Most of these investments are directly or indirectly secured by multifamily rental properties and, therefore, the value of these investments may be adversely affected by changes in macroeconomic conditions or other developments in real estate markets.  These factors include (but are not limited to): (i) increasing levels of unemployment and other, adverse regional or national economic conditions; (ii) decreased occupancy and rent levels due to supply and demand imbalances; (iii) changes in interest rates that affect the value of the real estate we own or in which we have an interest; and (iv) lack of or reduced availability of mortgage financing.. The value of most of our real estate-related investments is based upon cash flows generated by tenant leases.  The majority of the properties that we have financed or in which we have invested have rent limitations that could adversely affect the ability to increase rents.  The majority of such properties also have tenant income restrictions that may reduce the number of eligible tenants and, as a result, occupancy rates at such properties could decline. If tenants move out or cannot pay the rents charged on the specific units they lease, the owners (our borrowers and partners) may be unable to lease the units to replacement tenants at full rent (or at all).  In such circumstances, cash flows from such properties may not be sufficient to pay interest on our bonds or loans, which would cause the value of our investments to decline.. Real estate may also decline in value because of adverse changes in market conditions, environmental problems, casualty losses for which insurance proceeds are not sufficient to cover the loss, or condemnation proceedings.  The value of our real estate-related investments and our ability to conduct business also may be adversely affected by changes in local or national laws or regulatory conditions that affect significant segments of the real estate market, especially the multifamily housing market.   These local or national laws or regulatory conditions specifically include environmental, land use and other laws and regulations that affect the cost of maintaining and operating the properties in which we have an interest.. We are exposed to various risks associated with agreements that we use to manage interest rate risk.. From time to time, we may execute agreements that are designed to reduce our interest rate risk.  For example, we may enter into interest rate swaps whereby we agree to pay a fixed rate of interest and the counterparty agrees to pay us a floating rate of interest in order to synthetically fix our variable rate debt to better match assets that pay on a fixed rate basis.  We also may enter into interest rate caps whereby we pay the counterparty an upfront premium and the counterparty pays us if the benchmark rate on the cap reaches a certain level. As further discussed above, derivative instruments are exposed to changes in fair value as a result of changes in interest rates.  Additionally, interest rate swaps and caps expose the Company to the risk of counterparty default (including counterparty failure to meet its payment obligations).  Further, there is a risk that these contracts do not perform as expected and may cost more than the benefits we receive.  Moreover, in the case of interest rate swaps, we are exposed to the risk of collateral calls if the fair value of such agreements declines.. Our ability to maintain and grow our shareholder value over the long term would be adversely affected if we are unable to raise capital, if our capital partners fail to meet their funding commitments to us or if we are unable to make new investments.. We need to identify, attract and obtain new capital in order to increase the number and size of the investments that we make.  Our ability to raise capital depends on a number of factors, including certain factors that are outside our control.  There can be no assurances that we can find or secure commitments for new capital or that new or existing capital partners will meet their funding commitments to us.  The failure to obtain or maintain capital in sufficient amounts could result in a decrease in the number and dollar value of our investments, or a decline in the rate of growth of such investments, any of which could adversely impact our revenues, cash flows and financial condition.. Additionally, there is a risk that we will not be able to deploy our cash or the cash held by our Solar Ventures or expand our leverage to make investments that generate risk-adjusted returns that sufficiently grow shareholder value.  Furthermore, because there are no restrictions as to the nature of our investments, our investments in the future may result in additional or new risks that we do not face today.. We face risks associated with our renewable energy finance business.. Our Energy Capital business line invests in late-stage development, construction and permanent loans through our Solar Ventures and may also invest for its own account in other parts of the capital structure, to enable developers, design and build contractors and system owners to develop, build and operate renewable energy systems throughout North America.  This business is subject to construction risk, permanent financing risk, repayment risk and collateral risks (such as value and ability to foreclose).  In addition, federal and state. 13. governments have established various incentives and financial mechanisms to accelerate the adoption of renewable energy.  These incentives include tax credits, tax abatements and rebates among others.  These incentives help catalyze private sector investments in solar and other renewable energy.  Changes in government incentives, whether at the federal or local level, could adversely affect our renewable energy finance business.  In addition, changes in federal law, including the 2018 tariff on solar panels, could adversely affect our renewable energy finance business.  Furthermore, the ability of the Solar Ventures and the Company to fund our development or construction loan commitments is currently and may become increasingly dependent upon the repayment of other, similar loans in which we invested.  Repayment of such loans is often dependent upon permanent loans, tax credit equity and other monetization events whose funding is outside of our control.  Furthermore, lenders of permanent loans and syndicators of tax credit equity may require access to the credit markets, which could impact their ability to finance the take-out of our loans.. We do not control our Solar Ventures.  Our Solar Venture partners may make decisions regarding the Solar Ventures that are not in our best interests or that have an adverse effect on our investment in the Solar Ventures.. We have been, and may continue to be, directly and indirectly affected by disruptions in credit markets.. Disruptions in credit markets may cause significant deterioration in the market for tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds and other debt instruments that are a major part of our assets and may play a role in our reinvestment strategy.  This has in the past and may in the future result in our having to reduce the carrying value of our bonds and other receivables associated with our lending activities.  We are also dependent upon our capital partner to extend existing TRS agreements and other financings upon their maturity.  If we were unsuccessful in renewing such agreements, we may be forced to create liquidity in an unfavorable market which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Virtually all of our non-cash assets are illiquid and may be difficult to sell at their reported carrying values.. Our bonds, our direct and indirect investments in real estate, our renewable energy investments, and our other debt investments are illiquid and difficult to value.  In particular, our investments in bonds are unenhanced and unrated and, as a consequence, there is a relatively small trading market for these instruments.  The relative lack of liquidity in the market for our bond investments complicates our ability to measure their fair value and that of other debt investments.  Therefore, there is a risk that if we need to sell any of these assets, the price that we are able to realize may be lower than their carrying value in our financial statements.. Some of our bonds are 30 or more days past due in payment of principal and/or interest and other bond investments are at risk of becoming 30 or more days past due in payment of principal and/or interest.. As of December 31, 2017, the aggregate UPB of bonds that were 30 or more days past due in either principal and/or interest was $9.9 million, or approximately 4.3% of our Bond Portfolio.  We report our defaulted bonds at their fair value, which takes into consideration a borrower's default.  However, amounts we realize could be even less than such estimates if foreclosures were pursued or if our borrowers filed for bankruptcy protection.  Additionally, properties collateralizing certain performing bonds have net operating income (as represented in operating statements provided by the borrowing partnerships), which is less than the debt service owed to us.  These bonds are at risk of default if the partners of the borrowing partnerships are unable or unwilling to continue to cover the shortfall in order to pay the full debt service.. Comprehensive tax reform legislation could adversely affect our business and financial condition.. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"Tax Act\") was signed into law.  The Tax Act introduced significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code.. The Tax Act contains, among other things, significant changes to corporate taxation, including (i) reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, (ii) limitation of the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted earnings (except for certain small businesses), (iii) limitation of the deduction for NOLs to 80% of current year taxable income in respect of net operating losses generated during or after 2018 and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks, (iv) one-time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, (v) immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and (vi) modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits.  Any federal NOL arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 will be carried forward indefinitely pursuant to the Tax Act.  There is no change to the carryforward limitations on federal net operating losses generated in periods ending prior to January 1, 2018.. In addition to the direct changes in corporate taxation created by the Tax Act, certain provisions of the Tax Act may impact the value of various loan products in which we invest, including loans secured by renewable energy projects and tax-exempt bonds.  For the renewable energy loan investments, it is uncertain how the capital markets will adjust valuations for the various loan products we underwrite.  In addition, the majority of our tax-exempt bonds produce income that have traditionally been subject to the alternative minimum tax (\"AMT\") for both individuals and corporations.  Although the corporate AMT was eliminated by the Tax Act, the individual AMT continues, though with a higher AMT exemption beginning in tax years after December 31, 2017.   In addition, marginal tax brackets for individuals were changed with a new maximum marginal tax rate of 37% versus the prior 39.6%.  These changes may also impact the value of our investments.. 14. The full impact on the value of our tax-exempt bond portfolio from the Tax Act may not yet be reflected in our reported portfolio valuations while the overall impact of the Tax Act is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected.. In addition, the government could make other changes in tax or other laws, such as affordable housing incentive programs, that while not directly affecting our tax-exempt bonds, could make them less valuable to investors.  For example, if the federal government were to further lower marginal federal income tax rates or phase out the tax-exempt nature of the interest income for all or higher income taxpayers, our bonds would likely decline in value.  Congress could also pass laws that make competing investments more attractive than tax-exempt bonds, which would also make our bonds less valuable.. Our bonds may not retain their tax-exempt status.. On the date of initial issuance of any tax-exempt bond that we hold, bond counsel or special tax counsel rendered its opinion that interest on the bond is excludable from gross income for federal income tax purposes.  However, under certain circumstances, our bonds could lose their tax-exempt status subsequent to issuance.  While we take steps to ensure that these circumstances do not occur, there can be no guarantees that the tax-exempt status will be maintained.  If our bonds were to lose their tax-exempt status, then the fair value of these investments would decline.  In this case, if a bond was the referenced asset in a TRS financing, the TRS would terminate, thereby causing us to reacquire such bonds at fair value while we would also be obligated to pay any difference required to settle a TRS.  If we did not purchase a bond in such circumstances, our counterparty could sell it and, if its value at the inception of the TRS agreement was not realized upon sale, we would also be obligated to pay any difference required to settle a TRS agreement and our TRS collateral would be at risk.. We could lose the tax benefit of our NOLs.. As of December 31, 2017, we had an estimated $379.2 million of federal NOLs that were subject to a full valuation allowance at such reporting date.  Our federal NOLs can be used to offset federal taxable income for the foreseeable future.  However, there are events that could cause us to lose, or to otherwise limit, the amount of NOLs available to us.  For example, our NOLs could be lost if we suffer a change of control event as defined by the Internal Revenue Code.  A change of control event may occur when a shareholder, or a collection of shareholders, owning at least five percent of our shares, acquire more than 50% of our outstanding shares within a three-year period.  The Company adopted a Tax Benefits Rights Agreement on May 5, 2015 (the \"Rights Plan\") in an attempt to avoid a change of control event as defined by the Internal Revenue Code, although the Company cannot guarantee the effectiveness of the Rights Plan.  Changes in tax laws could also cause us to lose, or could otherwise limit, the amount of NOLs available to us.. Our NOLs are also subject to a 20-year carryforward limitation that limits the time that we have to generate the income necessary to fully utilize our NOLs.  In this regard, it is possible that some of our NOLs will become permanently impaired if the Company is unable to generate the income required to utilize our NOLs before their expiration period begins in 2027.. If we become subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the \"Investment Company Act\"), we could be required to sell substantial portions of our assets at a time when we might not otherwise want to do so, and we could incur significant losses as a result.. We continuously monitor our business activities to ensure that we do not become subject to regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act.  We currently rely on exemptions from the Investment Company Act for companies that are primarily engaged in the business of certain types of financings or of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.  Because of changes in the nature and number of companies that rely on the exemption for real estate, as well as given that most of the guidance surrounding this exemption comes from \"no action\" letters issued by the SEC staff, the SEC on August 31, 2011 issued a concept release requesting comment directed to the scope and use of this exemption.  We do not know what action, if any, the SEC may take in response to the comments that it receives.  If we were to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, either due to a change in the SEC's interpretation of that Act or due to a significant change in the value and composition of our assets, we would be subject to extensive regulation and restrictions.  Among other restrictions, we would not be able to incur borrowings, which would limit our ability to fund certain investments.  Accordingly, either we would have to restructure our assets so that we would not be subject to the Investment Company Act or we would have to materially change the way we do business.  Either course of action could require that we sell substantial portions of our assets at a time when we might not otherwise want to do so,. 15. and we could incur significant losses as a result.  Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The value of certain investments and cash flows are dependent on the quality of the management of the underlying properties.. Inadequate property management can adversely impact the performance, cash flows and value of properties held by funds in which we have invested or that secure our Bond Portfolio.. Our accounting policies and methods require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain.. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, many of our accounting methods involve substantial use of models, which are based on assumptions, including assumptions about future events.  Our management must exercise judgment in applying many of these accounting policies and methods so that these policies and methods comply with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (\"GAAP\") and reflect management's judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results of operations.  In some cases, management must select the appropriate accounting policy or method from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances but might affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses that we report.  See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  -  Note 1, \"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies\" for a description of our significant accounting policies.. We have identified three of our accounting policies as critical to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations.  These accounting policies are described in \"MD&A - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.\"  We believe these policies are critical because they require management to make particularly difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions.  These judgments, by their nature, are based on current facts and circumstances.  Accordingly, actual results could differ from these estimates, possibly in the near term, and could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial statements.  Even a small change in an estimate can have a significant impact for a reporting period.. Additionally, we have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently.  These policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner.. Because of the uncertainty surrounding management's judgments, assumptions and estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements.. A breach of the security of our External Manager's systems or those of other third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could damage or disrupt our business or result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential information, which could damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses.. Our business is reliant upon the security and efficacy of our External Manager's information technology environment, as well as those of other third parties with whom or on whom we rely.  Our business relies on the secure processing, transmission, storage and retrieval of confidential, proprietary and other information in the computer and data management systems and networks of third parties, particularly our External Manager.. Our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any significant disruptions to our External Manager or to third parties with whom we interact or upon whom we rely.  In addition, our ability to implement backup systems and other safeguards with respect to third-party systems is more limited than if those systems were our own.  In the event that backup systems are utilized, they may not process data as quickly as needed and some data might not have been backed up.. As with most systems, our External Manager's information technology systems are subject to computer viruses, malicious codes, phishing attacks, unauthorized access and other cyber-attacks.  To date, we are not aware of any significant impact on our operations or financial results from such attempts; however, unauthorized access could disrupt our business operations, result in the loss of assets, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. As cyber threats continue to evolve, third parties with whom we interact or upon whom we rely, particularly our External Manager, may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities or incidents.  Despite efforts to protect the integrity of systems and implement controls, processes, policies and other protective measures, third parties with whom we interact or upon whom we rely, particularly our External Manager, may not be able to anticipate all security breaches, nor may they be able to implement guaranteed preventative measures against such security breaches.  Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and third parties with whom we interact or upon whom we rely, particularly our External Manager, may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks.. <U+FEFF>. 16. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Shares. Our Rights Plan could depress our share price.. Under the Rights Plan, the acquisition by an investor (or group of related investors) of greater than a 4.9% stake in the Company, could result in all existing shareholders other than the new 4.9% holder having the right to acquire new shares for a nominal cost, thereby significantly diluting the ownership interest of the acquiring person.  By discouraging acquisitions of greater than a 4.9% stake in the Company, the Rights Plan might limit takeover opportunities and, as a result, could depress our share price.  At December 31, 2017, we had two shareholders with a greater than a 4.9% stake in the Company.  Additionally, two employees of the External Manager would each have a greater than 4.9% stake in the Company for purposes of the Rights Plan to the extent that they exercised their vested option awards.. On January 3, 2018, the Board approved a waiver of the 4.9% ownership limitation for Hunt, increasing it to 9.9% of the Company's issued and outstanding shares in any rolling 12-month period.. Our Board of Directors (\"Board\") can issue an unlimited number of common or preferred shares, which could reduce our book value per common share and earnings per common share and the cash or other assets available for distribution per common share upon liquidation or otherwise.. Under our Operating Agreement, but subject to certain Nasdaq Capital Market rules which impose some limitations on our ability to issue shares without shareholder approval, our Board can authorize the issuance of an unlimited number of common shares without obtaining shareholder approval.  Issuances of common shares could dilute the book value or the net income per common share or the cash per share available for distribution to common shareholders.  Our Board can also authorize, without any requirement of shareholder approval other than those imposed by Nasdaq Capital Market rules, the issuance of an unlimited number of shares with preferences over the common shares as to dividends, distributions on liquidation and other matters, other than voting.  This could reduce the book value and net earnings that would be allocable to our common shares and the cash or other assets that are available for distribution to our common shareholders either periodically or upon our liquidation.. Provisions of our Operating Agreement may discourage attempts to acquire us.. Our Operating Agreement contains at least three groups of provisions that could have the effect of discouraging people from trying to acquire control of us.  Those provisions are:. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIf any person or group acquires 10% or more of our shares, that person or group cannot, with a very limited exception, (i) engage in a business combination with us (including an acquisition from us of more than 10% of our assets or more than 5% of our shares) within five years after the person or group acquires the 10% or greater interest, unless our Board approved the business combination or approved the acquisition of a 10% or greater interest in us before it took place, or the business combination is approved by two-thirds of the members of our Board and holders of two-thirds of the shares that are not owned by the person or group that owns the 10% or greater interest; or (ii) engage in a business combination with us until more than five years after the person or group acquires the 10% or greater interest, unless the business combination is recommended by our Board and approved by holders of 80% of our shares or of two-thirds of the shares that are not owned by the person or group that owns the 10% or greater interest.. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tIf any person or group makes an acquisition of our shares that causes the person or group to be able to exercise one-fifth or more but less than one-third of all voting power of our shares, one-third or more but less than a majority of all voting power of our shares, or a majority or more of all voting power of our shares, the acquired shares will lose their voting power, except to the extent approved at a meeting by the vote of two-thirds of the shares not owned by the person or group, and we will have the right to redeem, for their fair market value, any of the acquired shares for which the shareholders do not approve voting rights.. · \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tSince one-third of our directors are elected each year to three-year terms this could delay the time when someone who acquires voting control of us could elect a majority of our directors.. The above provisions could deprive our shareholders of opportunities that might be attractive to many of them.. Our shares are thinly traded and, as a result, the price at which they trade may not reflect their full intrinsic value.. Although we are traded on Nasdaq Capital Market, our shares are thinly traded and we do not have analysts actively tracking and publishing opinions on the Company and our stock.  Additionally, when we have repurchased our shares, the number of shares. 17. outstanding is reduced, which has the effect over time of further decreasing the trading volume of our shares.  Accordingly, the trading price of our shares may not reflect their full intrinsic value."                         
