[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors.. Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, in addition to other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.. 18. Table of Contents. We are a blank check company with no operating history and no revenues, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective.. We are a blank check company with no operating results, and we will not commence operations until completing our initial business combination. Because we lack an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing our initial business combination with one or more target businesses. We have no plans, arrangements or understandings with any prospective target business concerning our initial business combination and may be unable to complete our initial business combination. If we fail to complete our initial business combination, we will never generate any operating revenues.. Despite our management team's experience in the media, entertainment and marketing services industries, there are no assurances that we will be successful in completing our initial business combination with a target business in any of these industries.. Despite the operational and acquisition experience of our management team, only one of our directors has had direct experience with special purpose acquisition companies. Any past performance or acquisition experience of our management team, Macquarie or any of its affiliates is not a guarantee either: (i) that we will be able to locate a suitable candidate for our initial business combination; or (ii) of any results with respect to any business combination we may complete. You should not rely on the historical record of the performance of our management team, Macquarie or any of its affiliates' performance as indicative of our future performance.. Our auditors have expressed substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern in their report.. In its report on our financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2018, our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. In this instance, a \"going concern\" opinion means that our independent registered public accounting firm has substantial doubt about our ability to continue our operations unless we complete a business combination by November 17, 2018 (or February 17, 2019, as applicable).. Our public stockholders may not be afforded an opportunity to vote on our proposed initial business combination, which means we may complete our initial business combination even though a majority of our public stockholders do not support such a combination.. We may not hold a stockholder vote to approve our initial business combination unless the business combination would require stockholder approval under applicable law or stock exchange listing requirement or if we decide to hold a stockholder vote for business or other legal reasons. For instance, NASDAQ rules currently allow us to engage in a tender offer in lieu of a stockholder meeting but would still require us to obtain stockholder approval if we were seeking to issue more than 20% of our outstanding shares as consideration in any business combination. Therefore, if we were structuring a business combination that required us to issue more than 20% of our outstanding shares, we would be required to seek stockholder approval of such business combination. However, except for as required by law, the decision as to whether we will seek stockholder approval of a proposed initial business combination or will allow stockholders to sell their shares to us in a tender offer will be made by us, solely in our discretion, and will be based on a variety of factors, such as the timing of the transaction and whether the terms of the transaction would otherwise require us to seek stockholder approval. Accordingly, we may complete our initial business combination even if holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock do not approve of the business combination we complete.. If we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination, our initial stockholders, officers and directors have agreed to vote in favor of such initial business combination, regardless of how our public stockholders vote.. Unlike many other blank check companies in which the initial stockholders agree to vote all of their founder shares in accordance with the majority of the votes cast by the public stockholders in connection with our initial business combination, our initial stockholders have agreed to vote all of their founder shares, as well as any public shares purchased by them, in favor of our initial business combination. As a result, in addition to our initial stockholders' founder shares, we would need only 7,762,501 or approximately 37.5%, of the 20,700,000 public shares sold in the IPO to be voted in favor of such a transaction (assuming all outstanding shares of our common stock are voted) in order to have such initial business combination approved. Our other directors and officers have entered into letter agreements similar to the one entered into by our initial stockholders with respect to any public shares acquired by them. Our initial stockholders own 20% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Accordingly, if we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination, it is more likely that the necessary stockholder approval will be received than would be the case if our initial stockholders agreed to vote their founder shares in accordance with the majority of the votes cast by our public stockholders.. Your only opportunity to affect the investment decision regarding a potential initial business combination will be the exercise of your right to redeem your shares from us for cash, unless we seek stockholder approval of such business combination.. Since we may complete our initial business combination without seeking stockholder approval, public stockholders may not have the right or opportunity to vote on our initial business combination, unless we seek such stockholder approval. Accordingly, if we do not seek stockholder approval, your only opportunity to affect the investment decision regarding a potential initial business combination may be limited to exercising your redemption rights within the period of time (which will be at least 20 business days) to be set forth in the tender offer documents we will furnish to our public stockholders in which we will describe our initial business combination.. 19. Table of Contents. The ability of our public stockholders to redeem their shares for cash may make our financial condition unattractive to potential business combination targets, which may make it difficult for us to enter into a business combination with a target.. We may seek to enter into our initial business combination transaction agreement with a prospective target that requires as a closing condition that we have a minimum net worth or a certain amount of cash. If too many public stockholders exercise their redemption rights, we would not be able to meet such closing condition and, as a result, would not be able to proceed with the proposed business combination. Furthermore, in no event will we redeem our public shares in an amount that would cause our net tangible assets to be less than $5,000,001 (so that we are not subject to the SEC's \"penny stock\" rules) or any greater net tangible asset or cash requirement which may be contained in the agreement relating to our initial business combination. Consequently, if accepting all properly submitted redemption requests would cause our net tangible assets to be less than $5,000,001 or such greater amount necessary to satisfy a closing condition as described above, we would not proceed with such redemption and the related business combination and may instead search for an alternate business combination. Prospective targets will be aware of these risks and, thus, may be reluctant to enter into a business combination transaction with us.. The ability of our public stockholders to exercise redemption rights with respect to a large number of our shares may not allow us to complete the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure.. At the time we enter into an agreement for our initial business combination, we will not know how many stockholders may exercise their redemption rights and, therefore, will need to structure the transaction based on our expectations as to the number of shares of common stock that will be submitted for redemption. If our initial business combination agreement requires us to use a portion of the cash in the trust account to pay the purchase price or requires us to have a minimum amount of cash at closing, we will need to reserve a portion of the cash in the trust account to meet such requirements or arrange for third-party financing. In addition, if a greater number of shares of common stock are submitted for redemption than we initially expected, we may need to restructure the transaction to reserve a greater portion of the cash in the trust account or arrange for third party financing. Raising additional third-party financing may involve dilutive equity issuances or the incurrence of indebtedness at higher than desirable levels, or may not be possible at all. The above considerations may limit our ability to complete the most desirable business combination available to us or optimize our capital structure. The amount of the deferred underwriting commissions payable to the underwriters will not be adjusted for any shares that are redeemed in connection with a business combination. The per-share amount we will distribute to stockholders who properly exercise their redemption rights will not be reduced by the deferred underwriting commissions and after such redemptions, the per-share value of shares held by non-redeeming stockholders will reflect our obligation to pay the deferred underwriting commissions.. The ability of our public stockholders to exercise redemption rights with respect to a large number of our shares could increase the probability that a potential initial business combination would be unsuccessful and that you would have to wait for liquidation in order to redeem your common stock.. If a potential initial business combination agreement requires us to use a portion of the cash in the trust account to pay the purchase price or requires us to have a minimum amount of cash at closing, the probability that our initial business combination would be unsuccessful would be increased. If our initial business combination is not completed, you will not receive your pro rata portion of the amount in the trust account until we liquidate the trust account. If you are in need of immediate liquidity, you could attempt to sell your common stock in the open market; however, at such time our common stock may trade at a discount to the pro rata amount per share in the trust account. In either situation, you may suffer a material loss on your investment or lose the benefit of funds expected in connection with our redemption until we liquidate or you are able to sell your common stock in the open market.. The requirement that we complete our initial business combination within the prescribed time frame may give potential target businesses leverage over us in negotiating a business combination and may limit the time we have in which to conduct due diligence on potential business combination targets as we approach our dissolution deadline, which could undermine our ability to complete our initial business combination on terms that would produce value for our stockholders.. Any potential target business with which we enter into negotiations concerning a business combination will be aware that we must complete our initial business combination by November 17, 2018 (or February 17, 2019 if we have executed a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement for an initial business combination by November 17, 2018 but have not completed the initial business combination by such date). Consequently, such target business may obtain leverage over us in negotiating a business combination, knowing that if we do not complete our initial business combination with that particular target business, we may be unable to complete our initial business combination with any target business. This risk will increase as we get closer to the timeframe described above. In addition, we may have limited time to conduct due diligence and may enter into our initial business combination on terms that we would have rejected upon a more comprehensive investigation.. We may not be able to complete our initial business combination within the prescribed time frame, in which case we would cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, and we would redeem our public shares and liquidate.. Our sponsor, executive officers and directors have agreed that we must complete our initial business combination by November 17, 2018 (or February 17, 2019, as applicable). We may not be able to find a suitable target business and complete our initial business combination within such time period. Our ability to complete our initial business combination may be negatively impacted by general market conditions, volatility in the capital and debt markets and the other risks described herein.. 20. Table of Contents. If we have not completed our initial business combination by such date, we will: (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up; (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, and subject to having lawfully available funds therefor, redeem the public shares, at a per share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account, including interest earned on the trust account deposits (which interest shall be net of taxes payable and less up to $50,000 to pay dissolution expenses), divided by the number of then-outstanding public shares, which redemption will completely extinguish our public stockholders' rights as stockholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any), subject to applicable law; and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of our remaining stockholders and our board of directors, dissolve and liquidate, subject in each case to our obligations under Delaware law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law.. Our sponsor is a newly formed alliance between MIHI and Modern Media, LLC, an entity that is wholly owned by Mr. Dickey, and you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objectives.. Our sponsor is a newly formed alliance between MIHI and Modern Media, LLC, an entity that is wholly owned by Mr. Dickey, who have not previously cooperated with one another on a blank check company and this may be considered a first-time alliance in a sponsor. As a result, you have no basis upon which to evaluate their ability to work together. There may be increased risk if unanticipated disagreements within the sponsor develop. In that case, we may be unable to complete our initial business combination for reasons, including, but not limited to, an inability to agree on: an appropriate target, terms suitable to the target's controlling investors, the composition of the management team, or appropriate financing strategies to accomplish the initial business combination.. If we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination, our sponsor, other initial stockholders, directors, officers, advisors or any of their affiliates may elect to purchase public shares from public stockholders, which may influence a vote on a proposed business combination and reduce the public \"float\" of our common stock.. If we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination and we do not conduct redemptions in connection with our initial business combination pursuant to the tender offer rules, our sponsor, other initial stockholders, directors, officers, advisors or any of their affiliates may purchase public shares in privately negotiated transactions or in the open market either prior to or following the completion of our initial business combination, although they are under no obligation to do so. Such a purchase may include a contractual acknowledgement that such stockholder, although still the record holder of our shares is no longer the beneficial owner thereof and therefore agrees not to exercise its redemption rights. In the event that our sponsor, directors, officers, advisors or any of their affiliates purchase public shares in privately negotiated transactions from public stockholders who have already elected to exercise their redemption rights, such selling stockholders would be required to revoke their prior elections to redeem their shares. The purpose of such purchases could be to vote such shares in favor of our initial business combination and thereby increase the likelihood of obtaining stockholder approval of our initial business combination or to satisfy a closing condition in an agreement with a target that requires us to have a minimum net worth or a certain amount of cash at the closing of our initial business combination, where it appears that such requirement would otherwise not be met. This may result in the completion of our initial business combination that may not otherwise have been possible.. In addition, if such purchases are made, the public \"float\" of our common stock and the number of beneficial holders of our securities may be reduced, possibly making it difficult to maintain or obtain the quotation, listing or trading of our securities on a national securities exchange.. If a stockholder fails to receive notice of our offer to redeem our public shares in connection with our initial business combination, or fails to comply with the procedures for tendering its shares, such shares may not be redeemed.. We will comply with the tender offer rules or proxy rules, as applicable, when conducting redemptions in connection with our initial business combination. Despite our compliance with these rules, if a stockholder fails to receive our tender offer or proxy materials, as applicable, such stockholder may not become aware of the opportunity to redeem its shares. In addition, the tender offer documents or proxy materials, as applicable, that we will furnish to holders of our public shares in connection with our initial business combination will describe the various procedures that must be complied with in order to validly tender or redeem public shares. In the event that a stockholder fails to comply with these procedures, its shares may not be redeemed.. You will not have any rights or interests in funds from the trust account, except under certain limited circumstances. To liquidate your investment, therefore, you may be forced to sell your public shares or warrants, potentially at a loss.. Our public stockholders will be entitled to receive funds from the trust account only upon the earlier to occur of: (i) the completion of our initial business combination; (ii) the redemption of all of our public shares if we are unable to complete our initial business combination by November 17, 2018 (or February 17, 2019 if we have executed a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement for an initial business combination by November 17, 2018 but have not completed the initial business combination by such date), subject to applicable law and as further described herein; and (iii) the redemption of our public shares properly submitted in connection with a stockholder vote to approve an amendment to our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation that would affect the substance or timing of our obligation to redeem 100% of our public shares if we have not completed our initial business combination by November 17, 2018 (or February 17, 2019, as. 21. Table of Contents. applicable). In addition, if our plan to redeem our public shares if we are unable to complete our initial business combination within the allotted time period is not completed for any reason, compliance with Delaware law may require that we submit a plan of dissolution to our then-existing stockholders for approval prior to the distribution of the proceeds held in our trust account. In that case, public stockholders may be forced to wait beyond the allotted time period before they receive funds from our trust account. In no other circumstances will a public stockholder have any right or interest of any kind in the trust account. Accordingly, to liquidate your investment, you may be forced to sell your public shares, rights or warrants, potentially at a loss.. NASDAQ may delist our securities from trading on its exchange, which could limit investors' ability to transact in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions.. Our units, common stock, rights, and warrants are listed and trade individually on NASDAQ. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on NASDAQ in the future or prior to our initial business combination. In order to continue listing our securities on NASDAQ prior to our initial business combination, we must maintain certain financial, distribution and stock price levels. Generally, we must maintain a minimum amount in stockholders' equity (generally $2,500,000) and a minimum number of holders of our securities (generally 300 round-lot holders).. Additionally, in connection with our initial business combination, we will be required to demonstrate compliance with NASDAQ's initial listing requirements, which are more rigorous than NASDAQ's continued listing requirements, in order to continue to maintain the listing of our securities on NASDAQ. For instance, our stock price would generally be required to be at least $4.00 per share and our stockholders' equity would generally be required to be at least $5,000,000. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time.. If NASDAQ delists any of our securities from trading on its exchange and we are not able to list such securities on another national securities exchange, we expect such securities could be quoted on an over-the-counter market. If this were to occur, you could face significant material adverse consequences, including:. <U+0095>   a limited availability of market quotations for our securities;. <U+0095>   reduced liquidity for our securities;. <U+0095>   a determination that our public shares are \"penny stock\" which will require brokers trading in our public shares to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our securities; and. <U+0095>   a limited amount of news and analyst coverage, any of which could inhibit your ability to sell your public shares at an acceptable price or on a timely basis. In addition, we could face a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future.. The National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996, which is a federal statute, prevents or preempts the states from regulating the sale of certain securities, which are referred to as \"covered securities.\" Our units, common stock, rights and public warrants qualify as covered securities under such statute. Although states are preempted from regulating the sale of our securities, the federal statute does allow states to investigate companies if there is a suspicion of fraud, and, if there is a finding of fraudulent activity, then the states can regulate or bar the sale of covered securities in a particular case. While we are not aware of a state having used these powers to prohibit or restrict the sale of securities issued by blank check companies, other than the State of Idaho, certain state securities regulators view blank check companies unfavorably and might use these powers, or threaten to use these powers, to hinder the sale of securities of blank check companies in their states. Further, if our securities were no longer listed on NASDAQ, our securities would not qualify as covered securities under such statute and we would be subject to regulation in each state in which we offer our securities.. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of many other blank check companies.. Since the net proceeds of the IPO and the sale of the private placement warrants are intended to be used to complete our initial business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a \"blank check\" company under the U.S. securities laws. However, because we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 and have filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors in blank check companies, such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Among other things, this means we will have a longer period of time to complete our initial business combination than do companies subject to Rule 419. Moreover, if the IPO were subject to Rule 419, we would be prohibited from releasing any interest earned on the funds held in the trust account to us unless and until the funds in the trust account were released to us in connection with our completion of our initial business combination.. If we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination and we do not conduct redemptions pursuant to the tender offer rules, and if you or a \"group\" of stockholders are deemed to hold in excess of 20% of our common stock, you will lose the ability to redeem all such shares in excess of 20% of our common stock.. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that if we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination and we do not conduct redemptions in connection with our initial business combination pursuant to the tender offer rules, a public stockholder, together with any affiliate of such stockholder or any other person with whom such stockholder is acting in concert or as a \"group\". 22. Table of Contents. (as defined under Section 13 of the Exchange Act), will be restricted from seeking redemption rights with respect to Excess Shares. However, we would not be restricting our stockholders' ability to vote all of their shares (including Excess Shares) for or against our initial business combination. A stockholder's inability to redeem its Excess Shares will reduce its influence over our ability to complete our initial business combination and such stockholder could suffer a material loss on its investment in us if it sells its Excess Shares in open market transactions. Additionally, such stockholder will not receive redemption distributions with respect to the Excess Shares if we complete our initial business combination. As a result, such stockholder will continue to hold that number of shares exceeding 20% and, in order to dispose of such shares, would be required to sell its shares in open market transactions, potentially at a loss.. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, it may be more difficult for us to complete our initial business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive only $10.10 per share, or possibly less than $10.10 per share, on our redemption, and our rights and warrants will expire worthless.. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), other blank check companies and other entities, domestic and international, competing for the types of businesses we intend to acquire. Many of these individuals and entities are well-established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting, directly or indirectly, acquisitions of companies operating in or providing services to various industries. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources or more local industry knowledge than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. In particular, although our management team has substantial experience in the media, entertainment and marketing services industries, such industries are highly competitive, and we may be unable to complete a business combination with a target in any such industries. While we believe there are numerous target businesses we could potentially acquire with the net proceeds of the IPO and the sale of the private placement warrants, our ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target businesses that are sizable will be limited by our available financial resources.. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, if we are obligated to pay cash for the shares of common stock redeemed, the resources available to us for our initial business combination will be reduced. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive only $10.10 per share, or possibly less than $10.10 per share, on the liquidation of our trust account and our rights and warrants will expire worthless. In certain circumstances, our public stockholders may receive less than $10.10 per share on the redemption of their shares.. If the funds not being held in the trust account are insufficient to allow us to operate through November 17, 2018 (or February 17, 2019, as applicable), we may be unable to complete our initial business combination.. The funds available to us outside of the trust account may not be sufficient to allow us to operate through November 17, 2018 (or February 17, 2019, as applicable), assuming that our initial business combination is not completed during that time. We expect to incur significant costs in pursuit of our acquisition plans. However, our affiliates are not obligated to make loans to us in the future, and we may not be able to raise additional financing from unaffiliated parties necessary to fund our expenses. Any such event in the future may negatively impact the analysis regarding our ability to continue as a going concern at such time.. Of the funds available to us, we could use a portion of the funds available to us to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds as a down payment or to fund a \"no-shop\" provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from \"shopping\" around for transactions with other companies or investors on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive only $10.10 per share, or possibly less than $10.10 per share, on the liquidation of our trust account and our rights and warrants will expire worthless.. If the funds not being held in the trust account are insufficient, it could limit the amount available to fund our search for a target business or businesses and complete our initial business combination and we will depend on loans from our sponsor to fund our search, to pay our taxes and to complete our initial business combination.. Of the net proceeds from our IPO and the sale of the private placement warrants, as of March 31, 2018 only approximately $558,000 is available to us outside the trust account to fund our working capital requirements. If we are required to seek additional capital, we may need to sell dilutive equity securities, or would need to borrow funds from our sponsor, management team or other third parties to operate or may be forced to liquidate. Other than as set forth herein, none of our sponsor, members of our management team or any of their affiliates is under any obligation to loan funds to us. Any such loans would be repaid only from funds held outside the trust account or from funds released to us upon completion of our initial business combination. We do not expect to seek loans from parties other than our sponsor, an affiliate of our sponsor or certain of our officers or directors, if any, as we do not believe third parties will be willing to loan such funds and provide a waiver against any and all rights to seek access to funds in our trust account. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the trust account. Consequently, our public stockholders may only receive $10.10 per share, or possibly less than $10.10 per share, on our redemption of our public shares and our rights and warrants will expire worthless.. 23. Table of Contents. Subsequent to our completion of our initial business combination, we may be required to take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment.. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will surface all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, that it would be possible to uncover all material issues through a customary amount of due diligence, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. As a result of these factors, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even if our due diligence successfully identifies certain risks, unexpected risks may arise and previously known risks may materialize in a manner not consistent with our preliminary risk analysis. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate effect on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. Accordingly, any stockholders who choose to remain stockholders following the business combination could suffer a reduction in the value of their shares. Such stockholders are unlikely to have a remedy for such reduction in value unless they are able to successfully claim that the reduction was due to the breach by our officers or directors of a duty of care or other fiduciary duty owed to them, or if they are able to successfully bring a private claim under securities laws that the tender offer materials or proxy statement relating to the business combination contained an actionable material misstatement or material omission.. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per share redemption amount received by stockholders may be less than $10.10 per share.. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third-party claims against us. Although we seek to have all vendors, service providers, prospective target businesses or other entities with which we do business execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, such parties may not execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements they may not be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account, including, but not limited to, fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility or other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain advantage with respect to a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. If any third party refuses to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, our executive officers will perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and will only enter into an agreement with a third party that has not executed a waiver if our executive officers believe that such third party's engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative.. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refuses to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by our executive officers to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where our executive officers are unable to find a service provider willing to execute a waiver. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Upon redemption of our public shares, if we are unable to complete our initial business combination within the prescribed timeframe, or upon the exercise of a redemption right in connection with our initial business combination, we will be required to provide for payment of claims of creditors that were not waived that may be brought against us within the 10 years following redemption. Accordingly, the per share redemption amount received by public stockholders could be less than the $10.10 per share initially held in the trust account, due to claims of such creditors. Our sponsor has agreed that it will be liable to us, if and to the extent any claims by a vendor for services rendered or products sold to us, or a prospective target business with which we have discussed entering into a transaction agreement, reduce the amount of funds in the trust account to below: (i) $10.10 per public share; or (ii) such lesser amount per public share held in the trust account as of the date of the liquidation of the trust account due to reductions in the value of the trust assets, in each case net of the interest which may be withdrawn to pay taxes, except as to any claims by a third party who executed a waiver of any and all rights to seek access to the trust account and except as to any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of the IPO against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act. Moreover, in the event that an executed waiver is deemed to be unenforceable against a third party, our sponsor will not be responsible to the extent of any liability for such third party claims. We have not asked our sponsor to reserve for its indemnification obligations. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our sponsor would be able to satisfy those obligations. As a result, if any such claims were successfully made against the trust account, the funds available for our initial business combination and redemptions could be reduced to less than $10.10 per public share. In such event, we may not be able to complete our initial business combination, and you would receive such lesser amount per share in connection with any redemption of your public shares.. Our directors may decide not to enforce the indemnification obligations of our sponsor, resulting in a reduction in the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public stockholders.. In the event that the proceeds in the trust account are reduced below the lesser of: (i) $10.10 per public share; or (ii) other than due to the failure to obtain such waiver such lesser amount per share held in the trust account as of the date of the liquidation of the trust account due to. 24. Table of Contents. reductions in the value of the trust assets, in each case net of the interest which may be withdrawn to pay taxes, and our sponsor asserts that it is unable to satisfy its obligations or that it has no indemnification obligations related to a particular claim, our independent directors would determine whether to take legal action against our sponsor to enforce its indemnification obligations. While we currently expect that our independent directors would take legal action on our behalf against our sponsor to enforce its indemnification obligations to us, it is possible that our independent directors in exercising their business judgment may choose not to do so in any particular instance. If our independent directors choose not to enforce these indemnification obligations, the amount of funds in the trust account available for distribution to our public stockholders may be reduced below $10.10 per share.. If, after we distribute the proceeds in the trust account to our public stockholders, we file a bankruptcy petition or an involuntary bankruptcy petition is filed against us that is not dismissed, a bankruptcy court may seek to recover such proceeds, and the members of our board of directors may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors, thereby exposing the members of our board of directors and us to claims of punitive damages.. If, after we distribute the proceeds in the trust account to our public stockholders, we file a bankruptcy petition or an involuntary bankruptcy petition is filed against us that is not dismissed, any distributions received by public stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a \"preferential transfer\" or a \"fraudulent conveyance.\" As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover some or all amounts received by our stockholders. In addition, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duty to our creditors and/or having acted in bad faith by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors, thereby exposing itself and us to claims of punitive damages.. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them upon redemption of their shares.. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law (the \"DGCL\"), stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. The pro rata portion of our trust account distributed to our public stockholders upon the redemption of our public shares in the event we do not complete our initial business combination by November 17, 2018 (or February 17, 2019 if we have executed a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement for an initial business combination by November 17, 2018 but have not completed the initial business combination by such date) may be considered a liquidation distribution under Delaware law. If a corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the DGCL intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder's pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to redeem our public shares as soon as reasonably possible following November 17, 2018 (or February 17, 2019, as applicable) in the event we do not complete our business combination and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures.. Because we will not be complying with Section 280 of the DGCL, Section 281(b) of the DGCL will require us to adopt a plan, based on facts known to us at such time that will provide for our payment of all existing and pending claims or claims that may be potentially brought against us within the 10 years following our dissolution. However, because we are a blank check company, rather than an operating company, and our operations will be limited to searching for prospective target businesses to acquire, the only likely claims to arise would be from our vendors (such as lawyers, investment bankers, etc.) or prospective target businesses. If our plan of distribution complies with Section 281(b) of the DGCL, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder's pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would likely be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend beyond the third anniversary of such date. Furthermore, if the pro rata portion of our trust account distributed to our public stockholders upon the redemption of our public shares in the event we do not complete our initial business combination by November 17, 2018 (or February 17, 2019, as applicable) is not considered a liquidation distribution under Delaware law and such redemption distribution is deemed to be unlawful, then pursuant to Section 174 of the DGCL, the statute of limitations for claims of creditors could then be six years after the unlawful redemption distribution, instead of three years, as in the case of a liquidation distribution.. If, before distributing the proceeds in the trust account to our public stockholders, we file a bankruptcy petition or an involuntary bankruptcy petition is filed against us that is not dismissed, the claims of creditors in such proceeding may have priority over the claims of our stockholders and the per share amount that would otherwise be received by our stockholders in connection with our liquidation may be reduced.. If, before distributing the proceeds in the trust account to our public stockholders, we file a bankruptcy petition or an involuntary bankruptcy petition is filed against us that is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our public stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, the per share amount that would otherwise be received by our stockholders in connection with our liquidation would be reduced.. 25. Table of Contents. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete our initial business combination.. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, our activities may be restricted, including:. <U+0095>   restrictions on the nature of our investments; and. <U+0095>   restrictions on the issuance of securities,. each of which may make it difficult for us to complete our initial business combination.. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including:. <U+0095>   registration as an investment company with the SEC;. <U+0095>   adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and. <U+0095>   reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations.. In order not to be regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, unless we can qualify for an exclusion, we must ensure that we are engaged primarily in a business other than investing, reinvesting or trading in securities and that our activities do not include investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading \"investment securities\" constituting more than 40% of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Our business will be to identify and complete a business combination and thereafter to operate the post-transaction business or assets for the long term. We do not plan to buy businesses or assets with a view to resale or profit from their resale. We do not plan to buy unrelated businesses or assets or to be a passive investor.. If we were deemed to be subject to the Investment Company Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expenses for which we have not allotted funds and may hinder our ability to complete our initial business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive only $10.10 per share, or possibly less than $10.10 per share, on the liquidation of our trust account and our rights and warrants will expire worthless.. Changes in laws or regulations, or a failure to comply with any laws and regulations, may adversely affect our business, including our ability to negotiate and complete our initial business combination, and results of operations.. We are subject to laws and regulations enacted by national, regional and local governments. In particular, we are required to comply with certain SEC and other legal requirements. Compliance with, and monitoring of, applicable laws and regulations may be difficult, time consuming and costly. Those laws and regulations and their interpretation and application may also change from time to time and those changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, investments and results of operations. In addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, as interpreted and applied, could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our ability to negotiate and complete our initial business combination, and results of operations.. We may not hold an annual meeting of stockholders until after the completion of our initial business combination and you will not be entitled to any of the corporate protections provided by such a meeting.. We may not hold an annual meeting of stockholders until after we complete a business combination (unless required by NASDAQ), and thus may not be in compliance with Section 211(b) of the DGCL, which requires an annual meeting of stockholders be held for the purposes of electing directors in accordance with a company's bylaws unless such election is made by written consent in lieu of such a meeting. Therefore, if our stockholders want us to hold an annual meeting prior to our completion of our initial business combination, they may attempt to force us to hold one by submitting an application to the Delaware Court of Chancery in accordance with Section 211(c) of the DGCL.. We have not registered the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the public warrants under the Securities Act or any state securities laws at this time, and such registration may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise its warrants except on a cashless basis and potentially causing such warrants to expire worthless.. We have not registered the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the public warrants under the Securities Act or any state securities laws at this time. However, under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed, as soon as practicable, but in no event later than 15 business days after the closing of our initial business combination, to use our best efforts to file a registration statement under the Securities Act covering the issuance of such shares and maintain a current prospectus relating to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, until the expiration or redemption of the warrants in accordance with the provisions of the warrant agreement. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so if, for example, any facts or events arise which represent a fundamental change in the information set forth in the registration statement or prospectus, the financial statements contained or incorporated by reference therein are not current, complete or correct or the SEC issues a stop order. If the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants are not registered under the Securities Act by the 60th day after the closing of our initial business combination, we will be required to permit holders to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis. However, no warrant will be exercisable for cash or on a cashless basis, and we will not be obligated to issue any shares to holders seeking to exercise their warrants, unless the issuance of the shares upon such exercise is registered or qualified under the securities laws of the state of the exercising holder or an exemption from registration is available. Notwithstanding the above, if our common stock is at the time of any exercise of a warrant not listed on a national securities exchange such that it satisfies the definition of a \"covered security\" under Section 18(b)(1) of the Securities. 26. Table of Contents. Act, we may, at our option, require holders of public warrants who exercise their warrants to do so on a \"cashless basis\" in accordance with Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act and, in the event we so elect, we will not be required to file or maintain in effect a registration statement, but we will use our best efforts to register or qualify the shares under applicable blue sky laws to the extent an exemption is not available. In no event will we be required to net cash settle any warrant, or issue securities or other compensation in exchange for the warrants in the event that we are unable to register or qualify the shares underlying the warrants under applicable state securities laws. If the issuance of the shares upon exercise of the warrants is not so registered or qualified or exempt from registration or qualification, the holder of such warrant shall not be entitled to exercise such warrant and such warrant may have no value and expire worthless. In such event, holders who acquired their warrants as part of a purchase of units will have paid the full unit purchase price solely for the shares of common stock included in the units. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to register or qualify the underlying shares of common stock for sale under all applicable state securities laws.. The grant of registration rights to our initial stockholders and their permitted transferees may make it more difficult to complete our initial business combination, and the future exercise of such rights may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.. Pursuant to an agreement entered into concurrently with the closing of the IPO, our initial stockholders and their permitted transferees are able to demand that we register the resale of their founder shares following the completion of our initial business combination. In addition, our sponsor and its permitted transferees are able to demand that we register the resale of the private placement warrants and the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the private placement warrants, and holders of the working capital loan warrants may demand that we register the resale of such warrants or the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants. We will bear the cost of registering these securities. The registration and availability of such a significant amount of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the registration rights may make our initial business combination more costly or difficult to conclude. This is because the stockholders of the target business may increase the equity stake they seek in the combined entity or ask for more cash consideration to offset the negative impact on the market price of our common stock that is expected when the common stock owned by our initial stockholders and private placement warrants owned by our sponsor or holders of our working capital loans or their respective permitted transferees are registered for resale.. Because we are not limited to a particular industry or any specific target businesses with which to pursue our initial business combination, you will be unable to ascertain the merits or risks of any particular target business's operations.. We may seek to complete our initial business combination with an operating company in any industry or sector, but we will not, under our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, be permitted to effectuate our initial business combination with another blank check company or similar company with nominal operations. Because we have not yet entered into any definitive agreement with any specific target business with respect to a business combination, there is no basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of any particular target business's operations, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, financial condition or prospects. To the extent we complete our initial business combination, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations with which we combine. For example, if we combine with a financially unstable business or an entity lacking an established record of sales or earnings, we may be affected by the risks inherent in the business and operations of a financially unstable or a development stage entity. Although our management team will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors or that we will have adequate time to complete due diligence. Furthermore, some of these risks may be outside of our control and leave us with no ability to control or reduce the chances that those risks will adversely impact a target business. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our securities will ultimately prove to be more favorable to investors than a direct investment, if such opportunity were available, in a business combination target. Accordingly, any stockholders who choose to remain stockholders following our initial business combination could suffer a reduction in the value of their securities. Such stockholders are unlikely to have a remedy for such reduction in value unless they are able to successfully claim that the reduction was due to the breach by our officers or directors of a duty of care or other fiduciary duty owed to them, or if they are able to successfully bring a private claim under securities laws that the tender offer materials or proxy statement relating to the business combination contained an actionable material misstatement or material omission.. We may seek acquisition opportunities with companies that may be outside of our management team's area of expertise.. We will consider an initial business combination outside of our management team's area of expertise if such business combination candidate is presented to us and we determine that such candidate offers an attractive acquisition opportunity for our company. In the event we elect to pursue an acquisition outside of the area of our management team's expertise, our management team's expertise may not be directly applicable to such acquisition's evaluation or operation, and the information contained in the Prospectus regarding the area of our management team's expertise would not be relevant to an understanding of the business that we elect to acquire. As a result, our management team may not be able to adequately ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. Accordingly, any stockholders who choose to remain stockholders following our initial business combination could suffer a reduction in the value of their common stock. Such stockholders are unlikely to have a remedy for such reduction in value unless they are able to successfully claim that the reduction was due to the breach by our management team of a duty of care or other fiduciary duty owed to them, or if they are able to successfully bring a private claim under securities laws that the tender offer materials or proxy statement relating to the business combination contained an actionable material misstatement or material omission.. 27. Table of Contents. Although we have identified general criteria and guidelines that we believe are important in evaluating prospective target businesses, we may enter into our initial business combination with a target that does not meet such criteria and guidelines, and as a result, the target business with which we enter into our initial business combination may not have attributes entirely consistent with our general criteria and guidelines.. Although we have identified general criteria and guidelines for evaluating prospective target businesses, it is possible that a target business with which we enter into our initial business combination will not have all of these positive attributes. If we complete our initial business combination with a target that does not meet some or all of these guidelines, such combination may not be as successful as a combination with a business that does meet all of our general criteria and guidelines. In addition, if we announce a prospective business combination with a target that does not meet our general criteria and guidelines, a greater number of stockholders may exercise their redemption rights, which may make it difficult for us to meet any closing condition with a target business that requires us to have a minimum net worth or a certain amount of cash. In addition, if stockholder approval of the transaction is required by law, or we decide to obtain stockholder approval for business or other legal reasons, it may be more difficult for us to attain stockholder approval of our initial business combination if the target business does not meet our general criteria and guidelines. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive only $10.10 per share, or possibly less than $10.10 per share, on the liquidation of our trust account and our rights and warrants will expire worthless.. We may seek acquisition opportunities with an early stage company, a financially unstable business or an entity lacking an established record of revenue or earnings.. To the extent we complete our initial business combination with an early stage company, a financially unstable business or an entity lacking an established record of sales or earnings, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the operations of the business with which we combine. These risks include investing in a business without a proven business model and with limited historical financial data, volatile revenues or earnings, intense competition and difficulties in obtaining and retaining key personnel. Although our management team will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we may not be able to properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors and we may not have adequate time to complete due diligence. Furthermore, some of these risks may be outside of our control and leave us with no ability to control or reduce the chances that those risks will adversely impact a target business.. We may not be required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm or from an independent accounting firm in connection with our initial business combination, and consequently, you may have no assurance from an independent source that the price we are paying for the business is fair to our company from a financial point of view.. Unless we complete our initial business combination with an affiliated entity, we will not be required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that is a member of FINRA or from an independent accounting firm that the price we are paying is fair to our company from a financial point of view.. In addition, if our board of directors is not able to determine the fair market value of the target business or businesses, in connection with NASDAQ rules that require that our initial business combination be with one or more target businesses that together have an aggregate fair market value equal to at least 80% of the value of the assets held in the trust account (excluding the deferred underwriting commissions and taxes payable on the interest earned on the trust account) at the time of our signing a definitive agreement in connection with our initial business combination, we will obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that is a member of FINRA or from an independent accounting firm with respect to the satisfaction of such criteria. Our stockholders will not be provided with a copy of such opinion nor will they be able to rely on such opinion.. Other than the two circumstances described above, we will not be required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that is a member of FINRA or from an independent accounting firm. If no opinion is obtained, our stockholders will be relying on the judgment of our board of directors, who will determine fair market value based on standards generally accepted by the financial community. Such standards used will be disclosed in our tender offer documents or proxy solicitation materials, as applicable, related to our initial business combination.. We may issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock to complete our initial business combination or under an employee incentive plan after completion of our initial business combination. Any such issuances would dilute the interest of our stockholders and likely present other risks.. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock. There are currently 54,385,000 authorized but unissued shares of common stock available for issuance, which amount takes into account shares reserved for issuance upon conversion of the rights and exercise of outstanding warrants. There is no preferred stock issued or outstanding.. We may issue a substantial number of additional shares of common stock, and may issue shares of preferred stock, in order to complete our initial business combination or under an employee incentive plan after completion of our initial business combination. However, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that prior to our initial business combination, we may not issue additional shares of capital stock that would entitle the holders thereof to (i) receive funds from the trust account or (ii) vote on any initial business combination. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or preferred stock:. 28. Table of Contents. <U+0095>   may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors;. <U+0095>   may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded our common stock;. <U+0095>   could cause a change in control if a substantial number of common stock is issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and. <U+0095>   may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our units, common stock and/or rights and warrants.. We may reincorporate in another jurisdiction in connection with our initial business combination and such reincorporation may result in taxes imposed on stockholders.. We may, in connection with our initial business combination and subject to requisite stockholder approval under Delaware law, reincorporate in the jurisdiction in which the target company or business is located or in another jurisdiction. The transaction may require a stockholder to recognize taxable income in the jurisdiction in which the stockholder is a tax resident or in which its members are resident if it is a tax transparent entity. We do not intend to make any cash distributions to stockholders to pay such taxes. Stockholders may be subject to withholding taxes or other taxes with respect to their ownership of us after the reincorporation.. Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not completed, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive only $10.10 per share, or possibly less than $10.10 per share, on the liquidation of our trust account and our rights and warrants will expire worthless.. The investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If we decide not to complete a specific initial business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, if we reach an agreement relating to a specific target business, we may fail to complete our initial business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive only $10.10 per share, or possibly less than $10.10 per share, on the liquidation of our trust account and our rights and warrants will expire worthless.. We will be dependent upon our executive officers and directors. Our executive officers and directors will also allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. The departure of any of our executive officers or directors or these conflicts of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to complete our initial business combination.. We believe that our success will depend on the continued service of our executive officers and directors, at least until we have completed our initial business combination. Our executive officers and directors are not required to, and will not, commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and our search for a business combination and their other businesses. We do not intend to have any full-time employees prior to the completion of our initial business combination. Moreover, our executive officers and directors are and will continue to be engaged in several other business endeavors for which such individuals may be entitled to substantial compensation and our executive officers and directors are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. We do not have an employment agreement with, or key-man insurance on the life of, any of our executive officers or directors. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or directors could have a detrimental effect on us.. Our independent directors also serve and will continue to serve as officers and board members for other entities. If our executive officers' and directors' other business affairs require them to devote substantial amounts of time to such affairs in excess of their current commitment levels, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs which may have a negative impact on our ability to complete our initial business combination.. Our ability to successfully effect our initial business combination and to be successful thereafter will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following our initial business combination. The loss of key personnel could negatively impact the operations and profitability of our post-combination business.. Our ability to successfully effect our initial business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The role of our key personnel in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. It is possible that our key personnel may not be involved with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following our initial business combination, and it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business will remain in place. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after our initial business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a company regulated by the SEC, which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements.. 29. Table of Contents. Our key personnel may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with a particular business combination. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following our business combination and as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business combination is in the best interests of our stockholders.. Our key personnel may be able to remain with the company after the completion of our business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to us after the completion of the business combination. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. There is no certainty that any of our key personnel will remain with us after the completion of our initial business combination. The determination as to whether any of our key personnel will remain with us will be made at the time of our initial business combination.. We may only have a limited ability to assess the management of a prospective target business, and this limited assessment may affect the success of our initial business combination with a target business whose management may not have the knowledge, skills, qualifications or abilities to manage a public company.. When evaluating the desirability of effecting our initial business combination with a prospective target business, our ability to assess the target business's management may be limited due to a lack of time, resources or information. Our assessment of the capabilities of the target's management, therefore, may prove to be incorrect and such management may lack the knowledge, skills, qualifications or abilities we suspected. Should the target's management not possess the knowledge, skills, qualifications or abilities necessary to manage a public company, the operations and profitability of the post-combination business may be negatively impacted, including, among other things, by various regulatory issues that could adversely affect the post-combination business's operations. Accordingly, any stockholders who choose to remain stockholders following our initial business combination could suffer a reduction in the value of their securities. Such stockholders are unlikely to have a remedy for such reduction in value.. The officers and directors of a target business may resign in anticipation of or upon completion of our initial business combination. The departure of a business combination target's key personnel could negatively impact the operations and profitability of our post-combination business. The role of a target business' key personnel upon the completion of our initial business combination cannot be ascertained at this time. Although we contemplate that certain members of a target business' management team will remain associated with the target business following our initial business combination, it is possible that members of the management of a target business will not wish to remain in place.. Neither Macquarie nor any of its affiliates has an obligation to provide us with potential investment opportunities or to devote any specified amount of time or support to our company's business.. Although we expect to benefit from Macquarie's and its affiliates' network of relationships and processes for sourcing, executing and evaluating potential acquisition targets, neither Macquarie nor any of its affiliates has any legal or contractual obligation to seek on our behalf or to present to us investment opportunities that might be suitable for our business, and may allocate any such opportunities at its discretion to us or other parties. We have no investment management, advisory, consulting or other agreement in place with Macquarie or any of its affiliates that obligates them to undertake efforts on our behalf or that govern the manner in which they will allocate investment opportunities. Even if Macquarie or one of its affiliates refers an opportunity to us, no assurance can be given that such opportunity will result in an acquisition agreement or our initial business combination.. Certain of our officers and directors, our sponsor and/or their affiliates are now, and all of them may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented.. Until we complete our initial business combination, we intend to engage in the business of identifying and combining with one or more businesses. Our officers and directors, our sponsor and/or their affiliates are now, or may in the future become, affiliated with entities that are engaged in a similar business. Moreover, our directors and officers and affiliates of our sponsor are and will continue to be engaged in several other business endeavors.. Our officers, directors, sponsor and its affiliates also may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe certain fiduciary or contractual duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor and a potential target business may be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we renounce our interest in any corporate opportunity offered to any director or officer unless such opportunity is expressly offered to such person solely in his or her capacity as a director or officer of our company and such opportunity is one we are legally and contractually permitted to undertake and would otherwise be reasonable for us to pursue.. 30. Table of Contents. Our officers, directors, security holders and their respective affiliates may have competitive pecuniary interests that conflict with our interests.. We have not adopted a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, security holders or affiliates from having a direct or indirect pecuniary or financial interest in any investment to be acquired or disposed of by us or in any transaction to which we are a party or have an interest. In fact, we may enter into a business combination with a target business that is affiliated with our sponsor or one of its affiliates, our directors or officers. Nor do we have a policy that expressly prohibits any such persons from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by us. Accordingly, such persons or entities may have a conflict between their interests and ours.. In particular, affiliates of our sponsor have investments in the media, entertainment and marketing services industries. As a result, there may be substantial overlap between companies that would be a suitable business combination for us and companies that would make an attractive target for such other affiliates.. We may engage in a business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships with entities that may be affiliated with our sponsor, officers, directors or their affiliates which may raise potential conflicts of interest.. In light of the involvement of affiliates of our sponsor and our officers and directors with other entities, we may decide to acquire one or more businesses affiliated with our sponsor, officers, directors or their affiliates. Our directors also serve and will continue to serve as officers and board members for other entities. Such entities may compete with us for business combination opportunities. Our sponsor, officers and directors are not currently aware of any specific opportunities for us to complete our initial business combination with any entities with which they or any of their affiliates are affiliated, and there have been no substantive discussions concerning a business combination with any such entity or entities. Although we will not be specifically focusing on, or targeting, any transaction with any affiliated entities, we would pursue such a transaction if we determined that such affiliated entity met our criteria for a business combination and such transaction was approved by a majority of our independent and disinterested directors. Despite our agreement to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that is a member of FINRA or from an independent accounting firm, regarding the fairness to our company from a financial point of view of a business combination with one or more businesses affiliated with our sponsor, officers, directors or their affiliates, potential conflicts of interest still may exist and, as a result, the terms of the business combination may not be as advantageous to our public stockholders as they would be absent any conflicts of interest.. Since our initial stockholders will lose their entire investment in us if our initial business combination is not completed (other than with respect to any public shares they may acquire during or after the IPO), a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular business combination target is appropriate for our initial business combination.. Our initial stockholders own 5,175,000 shares of common stock. The founder shares will be worthless if we do not complete our initial business combination. In addition, our sponsor purchased an aggregate of 7,320,000 private placement warrants, each exercisable for one share of common stock at $11.50 per share, subject to certain adjustments, for a purchase price of $7,320,000, or $1.00 per warrant, that will also be worthless if we do not complete our initial business combination.. The founder shares are identical to the shares of common stock included in the units sold in our IPO, except that: (i) the founder shares are subject to certain transfer restrictions; (ii) our initial stockholders have entered into a letter agreement with us, pursuant to which they have agreed (a) to waive their redemption rights with respect to their founder shares and any public shares they may acquire during or after the IPO in connection with the completion of our initial business combination, (b) to waive their redemption rights with respect to their founder shares and any public shares they may acquire during or after the IPO in connection with a stockholder vote to approve an amendment to our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation that would affect the substance or timing of our obligation to redeem 100% of our public shares if we fail to complete our initial business combination by November 17, 2018 (or February 17, 2019 if we have executed a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement for an initial business combination by November 17, 2018 but have not completed the initial business combination by such date), (c) to waive their rights to liquidating distributions from the trust account with respect to their founder shares if we fail to complete our initial business combination by November 17, 2018 (or February 17, 2019, as applicable) (although our initial stockholders will be entitled to liquidating distributions from the trust account with respect to any public shares they hold if we fail to complete our initial business combination within the prescribed time frame); and (iii) the founder shares will have certain registration rights. In addition, our officers and directors have entered into letter agreements similar to the one entered into by our initial stockholders with respect to any public shares acquired by them in or after the IPO.. The financial interests of our initial stockholders may influence their motivation in completing our initial business combination, and the association of our officers with our sponsor may also influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business combination, completing our initial business combination and influencing the operation of the business following the initial business combination. This risk may become more acute as November 17, 2018 (or February 17, 2019, as applicable) nears, which is the deadline for the completion of our initial business combination.. A conflict of interest may arise from the need to obtain the consent of MIHI and Modern Media, LLC, each of which owns 50% of our sponsor, to our business combination.. We have entered into an agreement pursuant to which we have agreed not to complete a business combination without the consent of both MIHI and Modern Media, LLC, each of which owns 50% of our sponsor, which consents will not be unreasonably withheld by either party,. 31. Table of Contents. giving consideration to such issues including but not limited to the potential regulatory, reputational or compliance impact to either party. As a consequence, interests of affiliates of our sponsor may conflict with those of the rest of the stockholders if MIHI and Modern Media, LLC do not wish to proceed with a business combination.. Macquarie, an affiliate of our sponsor, and its affiliates, may represent a client to acquire potential target businesses in competition with us, thereby causing conflicts of interest that limit our ability to pursue potential targets. These conflicts of interest could have a negative effect on our ability to complete a business combination.. Macquarie and its affiliates engage in a broad spectrum of activities including principal investing, specialized investment vehicle management, asset management, financial advisory, securities underwriting, sales and trading, investment research, lending and other activities. In the ordinary course of business, they engage in activities where their interests or the interests of their clients may conflict with our interests. Accordingly, there may be situations in which Macquarie or its affiliates have an obligation or an interest that actually or potentially conflicts with our interests. You should assume that these conflicts will not be resolved in our favor and, as a result, we may be denied certain acquisition opportunities or otherwise disadvantaged in certain situations by our relationship with Macquarie.. Macquarie and its affiliates and their clients make investments in a variety of different businesses and may directly compete with us for acquisition opportunities provided or created by Macquarie or its affiliates that meet our initial business combination objectives. Macquarie is under no specific obligation to offer potential acquisition opportunities to us and may allocate them at its discretion to us or other parties. We will not have any priority in respect of acquisition opportunities provided or created by Macquarie or its affiliates. You should assume that Macquarie and its affiliates and clients will have priority over us in terms of access to acquisition opportunities and, as a result, we may be denied certain acquisition opportunities or otherwise disadvantaged in certain situations by our relationship with Macquarie.. Clients of Macquarie and its affiliates may also compete with us for investment opportunities meeting our initial business combination objectives. If Macquarie is engaged to act for any such clients, we may be precluded from pursuing opportunities that would conflict with Macquarie's obligations to such client. In addition, investment ideas generated within Macquarie may be suitable for our company or a client of Macquarie, and may be directed to any of such persons or entities rather than to us. Macquarie may also be engaged to advise the seller of a company, business or assets that would qualify as an acquisition opportunity for us. In such cases, we may be precluded from participating in the sale process or from purchasing the company, business or assets. If, however, we are permitted to pursue the opportunity, the interests of Macquarie or its obligations to the seller may diverge from our interests.. Since the consents of MIHI and Modern Media, LLC, both of whom are affiliates of our sponsor, are required for approval of our initial business combination, any such conflict of interest could prevent us from completing our initial business combination; provided, however, that the consent of MIHI and Modern Media, LLC will not be unreasonably withheld by either party, giving consideration to such issues including but not limited to the potential regulatory, reputational or compliance impact to either party.. We may issue notes or other debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to complete a business combination, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition and thus negatively impact the value of our stockholders' investment in us.. Although we currently have no commitments to issue any notes or other debt securities, or to otherwise incur outstanding debt, we may choose to incur substantial debt to complete our initial business combination. We have agreed that we will not incur any indebtedness unless we have obtained from the lender a waiver of any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to the monies held in the trust account. As such, no issuance of debt will affect the per share amount available for redemption from the trust account. Nevertheless, the incurrence of debt could have a variety of negative effects, including:. <U+0095>   default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after our initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations;. <U+0095>   acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant;. <U+0095>   our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand;. <U+0095>   our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt is outstanding;. <U+0095>   using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock if declared, expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;. <U+0095>   limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate;. <U+0095>   increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and. <U+0095>   limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt.. 32. Table of Contents. We may only be able to complete one business combination with the funds available in the Trust Account, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business which may have a limited number of products or services. This lack of diversification may negatively impact our operations and profitability.. The funds available in the Trust Account that we may use to complete our initial business combination total $210,502,923 as of March 31, 2018 (which includes $7,785,000 of deferred underwriting commissions).. We may effectuate our initial business combination with a single target business or multiple target businesses simultaneously or within a short period of time. However, we may not be able to effectuate our initial business combination with more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. By completing our initial business combination with only a single entity our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory risks. Further, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be:. <U+0095>   solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, property or asset; or. <U+0095>   dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services.. This lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory risks, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to our initial business combination.. We may attempt to simultaneously complete business combinations with multiple prospective targets, which may hinder our ability to complete our initial business combination and give rise to increased costs and risks that could negatively impact our operations and profitability.. If we determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses that are owned by different sellers, we will need for each of such sellers to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete our initial business combination. With multiple business combinations, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations.. We may attempt to complete our initial business combination with a private company about which little information is available, which may result in a business combination with a company that is not as profitable as we suspected, if at all.. In pursuing our acquisition strategy, we may seek to effectuate our initial business combination with a privately held company. Very little public information generally exists about private companies, and we could be required to make our decision on whether to pursue a potential initial business combination on the basis of limited information, which may result in a business combination with a company that is not as profitable as we suspected, if at all.. Our management may not be able to maintain control of a target business after our initial business combination. We cannot provide assurance that, upon loss of control of a target business, new management will possess the skills, qualifications or abilities necessary to profitably operate such business.. We may structure our initial business combination so that the post-transaction company in which our public stockholders own shares will own less than 100% of the equity interests or assets of a target business, but we will only complete such business combination if the post-transaction company owns or acquires 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of the target or otherwise acquires a controlling interest in the target sufficient for us not to be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Even if the post-transaction company owns 50% or more of the voting securities of the target, our stockholders prior to our initial business combination may collectively own a minority interest in the post business combination company, depending on valuations ascribed to the target and us in the business combination transaction. For example, we could pursue a transaction in which we issue a substantial number of new shares of common stock in exchange for all of the outstanding capital stock of a target. In this case, we would acquire a 100% interest in the target. However, as a result of the issuance of a substantial number of new shares of common stock, our stockholders immediately prior to such transaction could own less than a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock subsequent to such transaction. In addition, other minority stockholders may subsequently combine their holdings resulting in a single person or group obtaining a larger share of the company's stock than we initially acquired. Accordingly, this may make it more likely that our management will not be able to maintain our control of the target business.. 33. Table of Contents. We do not have a specified maximum redemption threshold. The absence of such a redemption threshold may make it possible for us to complete a business combination with which a substantial majority of our stockholders do not agree.. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation does not provide a specified maximum redemption threshold, except that in no event will we redeem our public shares in an amount that would cause our net tangible assets to be less than $5,000,001 (such that we are not subject to the SEC's \"penny stock\" rules) or any greater net tangible asset or cash requirement which may be contained in the agreement relating to our initial business combination. As a result, we may be able to complete our initial business combination even though a substantial majority of our public stockholders do not agree with the transaction and have redeemed their shares or, if we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination and do not conduct redemptions in connection with our initial business combination pursuant to the tender offer rules, have entered into privately negotiated agreements to sell their shares to our sponsor, officers, directors, advisors or any of their affiliates. In the event the aggregate cash consideration we would be required to pay for all shares of common stock that are validly submitted for redemption plus any amount required to satisfy cash conditions pursuant to the terms of the proposed business combination exceed the aggregate amount of cash available to us, we would not be able to complete the business combination or redeem any such shares, all shares of common stock submitted for redemption would be returned to the holders thereof, and we instead may search for an alternate business combination.. If we have inadequate cash simultaneously to meet the closing requirements of our initial business combination and redeem all shares of common stock submitted for redemption, we will return all shares submitted for redemption and continue to pursue an alternative transaction.. In the event the aggregate cash consideration we would be required to pay for all shares of common stock that are validly submitted for redemption plus any amount required to satisfy cash conditions pursuant to the terms of the proposed initial business combination exceed the aggregate amount of cash available to us, we would not be able to complete the business combination or redeem any such shares, all shares of common stock submitted for redemption would be returned to the holders thereof, and we instead will search for an alternate initial business combination.. The exercise price for the public warrants is higher than in many similar blank check company offerings in the past, and, accordingly, the warrants are more likely to expire worthless.. The exercise price of the public warrants is higher than is typical in many similar blank check companies in the past. Historically, the exercise price of a warrant was generally a fraction of the purchase price of the units in the initial public offering. The exercise price for our public warrants is $11.50 per share, subject to certain adjustments. As a result, the warrants are less likely to ever be in the money and more likely to expire worthless.. In order to effectuate an initial business combination, blank check companies have, in the recent past, amended various provisions of their charters and modified governing instruments. We cannot assure you that we will not seek to amend our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation or other governing instruments in a manner that will make it easier for us to complete our initial business combination that our stockholders may not support.. In order to effectuate a business combination, blank check companies have, in the recent past, amended various provisions of their charters and modified governing instruments. For example, blank check companies have increased redemption thresholds and changed industry focus. We cannot assure you that we will not seek to amend our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation or other governing instruments in order to effectuate our initial business combination.. The provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation that relate to our pre-business combination activity (and corresponding provisions of the agreement governing the release of funds from our trust account) provide that it may be amended with the approval of holders of 65% of our common stock, which is a lower amendment threshold than that of some other blank check companies. It may be easier for us, therefore, to amend our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation to facilitate the completion of an initial business combination that some of our stockholders may not support.. Some other blank check companies have a provision in their charter which prohibits the amendment of certain of its provisions, including those which relate to a company's pre-business combination activity, without approval by a certain percentage of the company's stockholders. In those companies, amendment of these provisions typically requires approval by between 90% and 100% of the company's public stockholders. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that any of its provisions, including those related to pre-business combination activity (including the requirement to deposit proceeds of the IPO and the private placement warrants into the trust account and not release such amounts except in specified circumstances, and to provide certain redemption rights to public stockholders), may be amended if approved by holders of 65% of our common stock, and corresponding provisions of the trust agreement governing the release of funds from our trust account may be amended if approved by holders of 65% of our common stock. In all other instances, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that it may be amended by holders of a majority of our common stock, subject to applicable provisions of the DGCL or applicable stock exchange rules. Our initial stockholders, who beneficially own 20% of our common stock, may participate in any vote to amend our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and/or trust agreement and will have the discretion to vote in any manner they choose (except as otherwise stated herein). As a result, we may be able to amend the provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation which will govern our pre-business combination behavior more easily than some other blank check companies, and this may increase our ability to complete our initial business combination with which you do not agree. In certain circumstances, our stockholders may pursue remedies against us for any breach of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation.. 34. Table of Contents. Our initial stockholders, executive officers and directors have agreed, pursuant to a written agreement with us, that they will not propose any amendment to our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation that would affect the substance or timing of our obligation to redeem 100% of our public shares if we do not complete our initial business combination by November 17, 2018 (or February 17, 2019 if we have executed a letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement for an initial business combination by November 17, 2018 but have not completed the initial business combination by such date), unless we provide our public stockholders with the opportunity to redeem their shares of common stock upon approval of any such amendment at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the trust account, including interest earned on the trust account deposits (which interest shall be net of taxes payable), divided by the number of then-outstanding public shares. These agreements are contained in letter agreements that we have entered into with our sponsor, executive officers and directors. Our stockholders are not parties to, or third-party beneficiaries of, these agreements and, as a result, will not have the ability to pursue remedies against our sponsor, executive officers or directors for any breach of these agreements. As a result, in the event of a breach, our stockholders would need to pursue a stockholder derivative action, subject to applicable law.. We may be unable to obtain additional financing to complete our initial business combination or to fund the operations and growth of a target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination.. Although we believe that the funds available in the Trust Account will be sufficient to allow us to complete our initial business combination, because we have not yet identified any prospective target business we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the funds available in the Trust Account prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of our initial business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, the obligation to repurchase for cash a significant number of shares from stockholders who elect redemption in connection with our initial business combination or the terms of negotiated transactions to purchase public shares in connection with our initial business combination, we may be required to seek additional financing or to abandon the proposed business combination. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to complete our initial business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, even if we do not need additional financing to complete our initial business combination, we may require such financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business, including as a result of the target business being in the early stage of development or growth. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after our initial business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may only receive $10.10 per share, or possibly less than $10.10 per share, on the liquidation of our trust account and our rights and warrants will expire worthless.. Our initial stockholders control a substantial interest in us and thus may exert a substantial influence on actions requiring a stockholder vote, potentially in a manner that you do not support.. Our initial stockholders own approximately 20% of our issued and outstanding common stock. Accordingly, they may exert a substantial influence on actions requiring a stockholder vote, potentially in a manner that you do not support, including amendments to our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and approval of major corporate transactions. If our initial stockholders purchase any additional shares of common stock, this would increase their influence. Factors that could be considered in making such purchases would include consideration of the current trading price of our common stock. In addition, our board of directors currently consists of members that have been elected by our initial stockholders, and is divided into three classes, each of which generally serves for a term for three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. We may not hold an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the completion of our initial business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the completion of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting prior to our initial business combination, as a consequence of our \"staggered\" board of directors, only approximately one-third of the board of directors will be considered for election. Accordingly, our initial stockholders will continue to exert control at least until the completion of our initial business combination, and, due to the sale of the private placement warrants to our sponsor, potentially after completion of our initial business combination.. We may amend the terms of the public warrants in a manner that may be adverse to holders of the warrants with the approval of the holders of at least 65% of the then-outstanding public warrants.. Our public warrants are issued in registered form under a warrant agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us. The warrant agreement provides that the terms of the warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but will require the approval of the holders of at least 65% of the then-outstanding public warrants to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders of public warrants. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the public warrants in a manner adverse to a holder if holders of at least 65% of the then-outstanding public warrants approve of such amendment. Examples of such amendments could be amendments to, among other things, increase the exercise price of the warrants, shorten the exercise period or decrease the number of shares of common stock purchasable upon exercise of a warrant.. 35. Table of Contents. We may amend the terms of the rights in a manner that may be adverse to holders with the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then outstanding rights.. Our rights are issued in registered form under a right agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as rights agent, and us. The right agreement provides that the terms of the rights may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but will require the approval by the holders of at least 65% of the then-outstanding rights in order to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the rights in a manner adverse to a holder if holders of at least 65% of the then-outstanding rights approve of such amendment. An example of such an amendment could be an amendment to decrease the fractional share of common stock received upon exchange of the right.. We may redeem unexpired public warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to you, thereby making such warrants worthless.. We have the ability to redeem outstanding public warrants at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant upon a minimum of 30 days' prior written notice of redemption, which we refer to as the 30-day redemption period, provided that the last reported closing price of our common stock equals or exceeds $18.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock capitalizations, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading-day period ending on the third trading day prior to the date on which we send the notice of redemption to the warrant holders. We will not redeem the public warrants unless an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is effective and a current prospectus relating to those shares of common stock is available throughout the 30-day redemption period, except if the warrants may be exercised on a cashless basis and such cashless exercise is exempt from registration under the Securities Act. Redemption of the outstanding public warrants could force you to: (i) exercise your warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for you to do so; (ii) sell your warrants at the then-current market price when you might otherwise wish to hold your warrants; or (iii) accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of your warrants. None of the private placement warrants will be redeemable by us so long as they are held by the initial purchasers or by their permitted transferees.. Our rights and warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effectuate our initial business combination.. We have issued rights to receive 2,070,000 shares of our common stock and public warrants to purchase 10,350,000 shares of our common stock as part of the units sold in our IPO and, simultaneously with the closing of the IPO, we issued in a private placement an aggregate of 7,320,000 private placement warrants, each exercisable to purchase one share of common stock at $11.50 per share, subject to certain adjustments, at a per purchase share price of $1.00 per warrant. In addition, if our sponsor, an affiliate of our sponsor or certain of our officers or directors make any working capital loans to us, up to $1,000,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants of the post business combination entity at a price of $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender (\"working capital loan warrants\"). To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effectuate our initial business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares of common stock upon exercise of these rights and warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle to a target business. Such securities, when exercised or converted, as applicable, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of common stock and reduce the value of the shares of common stock issued to complete the business transaction. Therefore, our rights and warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business transaction or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the rights or warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these rights are converted or these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings.. The private placement warrants are identical to the warrants sold as part of the units in the IPO except that, so long as they are held by the initial purchasers or their permitted transferees: (i) they will not be redeemable by us; (ii) they (including the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of these warrants) will not, subject to certain limited exceptions, be transferable, assignable or salable until 30 days after the completion of our initial business combination; (iii) they may be exercised by the holders on a cashless basis; and (iv) they (including the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of these warrants) will have certain registration rights.. The working capital loan warrants, if any, will be identical to the private placement warrants except that, (i) such warrants shall not be exercisable more than five years from May 11, 2017 and (ii) pursuant to FINRA Rule 5110(g)(1), such warrants, and the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, shall be subject to certain additional restrictions on transfer.. Because each unit contains one-half of one warrant and one right to receive one-tenth of one share of our common stock, the units may be worth less than units of other blank check companies.. Each unit contains one-half of one warrant and one right to receive one-tenth of one share of our common stock upon consummation of our initial business combination. Pursuant to the warrant agreement, no fractional warrants will be issued upon separation of the units, and only whole warrants are eligible to trade. This is different from other offerings similar to ours whose units include one share of common stock and one whole warrant to purchase one share. We have established the components of the units in this way in order to reduce the dilutive effect of the warrants and rights upon completion of a business combination since the warrants will be exercisable for, and the rights will be convertible. 36. Table of Contents. into, a fraction of the number of shares in the aggregate compared to units that each contain a whole warrant to purchase one share, thus making us, we believe, a more attractive merger partner for target businesses. Nevertheless, this unit structure may cause our units to be worth less than if they included a warrant to purchase one whole share.. We will have no obligation to net cash settle the rights.. In no event will we have any obligation to net cash settle the rights. Furthermore, there are no contractual penalties for failure to deliver securities to the holders of the rights upon consummation of an initial business combination. Accordingly, the rights may expire worthless.. There is only a thin market for our securities and a market for our securities may not develop, which would adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities.. There is only a thin market for our securities, and we have only a limited trading history. You therefore have limited access to information about prior market history on which to base your investment decision. The price of our securities may vary significantly due to one or more potential business combinations and general market or economic conditions. Furthermore, an active trading market for our securities may never develop or, if developed, it may not be sustained. You may be unable to sell your securities unless a market can be established and sustained.. Because we must furnish our stockholders with target business financial statements, we may lose the ability to complete an otherwise advantageous initial business combination with some prospective target businesses.. The proxy rules require that a proxy statement with respect to a vote on a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests include historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure in periodic reports. We will include the same financial statement disclosures in connection with our tender offer documents, whether or not they are required under the tender offer rules. These financial statements may be required to be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to, GAAP or IFRS depending on the circumstances and the historical financial statements may be required to be audited in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses we may acquire because some targets may be unable to provide such financial statements in time for us to disclose such financial statements in accordance with federal proxy rules and complete our initial business combination within the prescribed time frame.. We are an emerging growth company within the meaning of the Securities Act, and if we take advantage of certain exemptions from disclosure requirements available to emerging growth companies, this could make our securities less attractive to investors and may make it more difficult to compare our performance with other public companies.. We are an \"emerging growth company\" within the meaning of the Securities Act, as modified by the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. As a result, our security holders may not have access to certain information they may deem important. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of any September 30 before that time, in which case we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following March 31. We cannot predict whether investors will find our securities less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our securities less attractive as a result of our reliance on these exemptions, the trading prices of our securities may be lower than they otherwise would be, there may be a less active trading market for our securities and the trading prices of our securities may be more volatile.. Further, Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such an election to opt out is irrevocable. We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. This may make comparison of our financial statements with another public company which is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company which has opted out of using the extended transition period difficult or impossible because of the potential differences in accountant standards used.. 37. Table of Contents. Compliance obligations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may make it more difficult for us to effectuate our initial business combination, require substantial financial and management resources, and increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls. Only in the event we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer or an accelerated filer will we be required to comply with the independent registered public accounting firm attestation requirement on our internal control over financial reporting. Further, for as long as we remain an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with the independent registered public accounting firm attestation requirement on our internal control over financial reporting. The fact that we are a blank check company makes compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act particularly burdensome on us as compared to other public companies because a target business with which we seek to complete a business combination may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of its internal controls. The development of the internal control of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition.. Provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management.. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include a staggered board of directors and the ability of the board of directors to designate the terms of, and issue new series of, preferred stock, which may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities.. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities.. If we effect our initial business combination with a company located in the United States but with operations or opportunities outside of the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations.. If we effect our initial business combination with a company located in the United States but with operations or opportunities outside of the United States, we would be subject to any special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in an international setting, including any of the following:. <U+0095>   higher costs and difficulties inherent in managing cross-border business operations and complying with commercial and legal requirements of overseas markets;. <U+0095>   rules and regulations regarding currency redemption;. <U+0095>   complex corporate withholding taxes on individuals;. <U+0095>   laws governing the manner in which future business combinations may be effected;. <U+0095>   tariffs and trade barriers;. <U+0095>   regulations related to customs and import/export matters;. <U+0095>   longer payment cycles;. <U+0095>   tax issues, such as tax law changes, including termination or reduction of tax and other incentives that the applicable government provides to domestic companies, and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States;. <U+0095>   currency fluctuations and exchange controls;. <U+0095>   rates of inflation;. <U+0095>   challenges in collecting accounts receivable;. <U+0095>   cultural and language differences;. <U+0095>   employment regulations;. <U+0095>   crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks, natural disasters and wars;. <U+0095>   deterioration of political relations with the United States;. <U+0095>   obligation of personnel to perform military service; and. <U+0095>   government appropriation of assets.. We may not be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our operations might suffer, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition."
