[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information provided in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an investment in shares of the Company's Common Stock.  If any of the events described in these risks were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The impact of recent tax reforms on the Company's results of operations is uncertain.. In December of 2017, the U.S. and Belgium enacted tax reforms for corporate taxpayers.  The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"TCJA\") is the most significant and complex change to the U.S. tax law in more than 30 years. The TCJA contains significant changes, including reduction of the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a one-time mandatory taxation of offshore accumulated earnings regardless of whether they are repatriated, limitation of the deduction for interest expense, additional taxes on the future income of the Company's foreign subsidiaries and modifying or repealing many business deductions and credits. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company recorded a net provisional tax expense of $45.2 million representing the best current estimate of the impact of the TCJA and related transactions. With respect to the Belgian legislation, the most significant provisions were the reduction of the corporate income tax rate from 33.99% to 29.58% for January 1, 2018 and January 1, 2019, respectively, with a further reduction to 25% effective January 1, 2020, an annual limitation on the utilization of net operating losses, and creation of a consolidated corporate income tax regime.  As a result of the Belgian reform, the Company recorded a net tax benefit of $44.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017.  The Company will continue to evaluate the interpretations and future guidance related to the tax reforms to determine the impact on the Company's tax determinations and results for future periods.. The floor covering industry is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, such as consumer confidence, income and spending, corporate and government spending, interest rate levels, availability of credit and demand for housing. Significant or prolonged declines in the U.S. or global economies could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. Downturns in the U.S. and global economies, negatively impact the floor covering industry and the Company's business.  During times of economic uncertainty or decline, end consumers tend to spend less on remodeling their homes, which is how the Company derives a majority of its sales. Likewise new home construction - and the corresponding need for new flooring materials - tends to slow down during recessionary periods. Although the difficult economic conditions have improved in the U.S., European and other markets, there may be additional downturns that could cause the industry to deteriorate in the foreseeable future. A significant or prolonged decline in residential or commercial remodeling or new construction activity could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.. The Company may be unable to predict customer preferences or demand accurately, or to respond to technological developments.. The Company operates in a market sector where demand is strongly influenced by rapidly changing customer preferences as to product design and technical features.  Failure to quickly and effectively respond to changing customer demand or technological developments could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The Company faces intense competition in the flooring industry that could decrease demand for the Company's products or force it to lower prices, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. The floor covering industry is highly competitive. The Company faces competition from a number of manufacturers and independent distributors.  Maintaining the Company's competitive position may require substantial investments in the Company's product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities. Competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for the Company's products or force the Company to lower prices. Moreover, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and input costs may contribute to more attractive pricing for imports that compete with the Company's products, which may put pressure on the Company's pricing.  Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. 10. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Changes in the global economy could affect the Company's overall availability and cost of credit.. A downturn in the U.S. or global economies could impact the Company's ability to obtain financing in the future, including any financing necessary to refinance existing indebtedness.  The cost and availability of credit during uncertain economic times could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition.. Further, negative economic conditions may factor into the Company's periodic credit ratings assessment by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. (\"Moody's\"), Standard & Poor's Financial Services, LLC (\"S&P\") and Fitch, Inc.  Any future changes in the credit rating agencies' methodology in assessing our credit strength and any downgrades in the Company's credit ratings could increase the cost of its existing credit and could adversely affect the cost of and ability to obtain additional credit in the future. The Company can provide no assurances that downgrades will not occur.. If the Company were unable to meet certain covenants contained in its existing credit facilities, it may be required to repay borrowings under the credit facilities prior to their maturity and may lose access to the credit facilities for additional borrowings that may be necessary to fund its operations and growth strategy.. On March 26, 2015, the Company entered into a $1,800 million, senior revolving credit facility (the \"2015 Senior Credit Facility\").  As of December 31, 2017, the amount utilized under the 2015 Senior Credit Facility, including the commercial paper issuance, was $1,259.0 million resulting in a total of $541.0 million available. The amount utilized included $1,140.6 million of commercial paper issued, $62.1 million of direct borrowings, and $56.3 million of standby letters of credit related to various insurance contracts and foreign vendor commitments.. If the Company's cash flow is worse than expected, the Company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness through a public and/or private debt offering or a new bank facility and may not be able to do so on terms acceptable to it, or at all. If the Company is unable to access debt markets at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts due to credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, or weakness in the Company's businesses, the Company's ability to finance its operations or repay existing debt obligations may be materially and adversely affected.. Additionally, the Company's credit facilities include certain affirmative and negative covenants that impose restrictions on the Company's financial and business operations, including limitations on liens, indebtedness, fundamental changes, asset dispositions, dividends and other similar restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, payments and modifications of certain existing debt, future negative pledges, and changes in the nature of the Company's business.  In addition, the 2015 Senior Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain a Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio of at least 3.0 to 1.0 and a Consolidated Net Leverage Ratio of no more than 3.75 to 1.0.  A failure to comply with the obligations contained in our current or future credit facilities or indentures relating to our outstanding public debt could result in an event of default or an acceleration of debt under other instruments that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions. We cannot be certain that we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments.. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact the Company's financial condition and results of operations and may affect the comparability of results between the Company's financial periods.. The results of the Company's foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars from the local currency for consolidated reporting. The exchange rates between some of these currencies and the U.S. dollar in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. The Company may not be able to manage effectively the Company's currency translation risks, and volatility in currency exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements and affect comparability of the Company's results between financial periods.. The Company has significant operations in emerging markets, including eastern Europe, Malaysia, Mexico and Russia, and therefore has exposure to doing business in potentially unstable areas of the world.. Operations in emerging markets are subject to greater risk than more developed markets, including in some cases significant legal, economic and political risks.  Market conditions and the political structures that support them are subject to rapid change in these economies, and the Company may not be able to react quickly enough to protect its assets and business operations.  In particular, developing markets in which the Company operates may be characterized by one or more of the following:. • complex and conflicting laws and regulations, which may be inconsistently or arbitrarily enforced;. 11. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • high incidences of corruption in state regulatory agencies;. • volatile inflation;. • widespread poverty and resulting political instability;. • compliance with laws governing international relations, including U.S. laws that relate to sanctions and corruption;. • immature legal and banking systems;. • uncertainty with respect to title to real and personal property;. • underdeveloped infrastructure;. • heavy state control of natural resources and energy supplies;. • state ownership of transportation and supply chain assets;. • high protective tariffs and inefficient customs processes; and. • high crime rates.. Changes in any one or a combination of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. In periods of rising costs, the Company may be unable to pass raw materials, labor, energy and fuel-related cost increases on to its customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. The prices of raw materials, labor, energy and fuel-related costs vary significantly with market conditions. Although the Company generally attempts to pass on increases in raw material, labor, energy and fuel-related costs to its customers, the Company's ability to do so is dependent upon the rate and magnitude of any increase, competitive pressures and market conditions for the Company's products. There have been in the past, and may be in the future, periods of time during which increases in these costs cannot be recovered. During such periods of time, the Company's business may be materially adversely affected.. The Company may be unable to obtain raw materials or sourced product on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. The principal raw materials used in the Company's manufacturing operations include triexta, nylon, polypropylene, and polyester resins and fibers, which are used in the Company's carpet and rugs business; clay, talc, nepheline syenite and glazes, including frit (ground glass), zircon and stains, which are used in the Company's ceramic tile business; wood, paper, and resins which are used in the Company's wood and laminate flooring business; and glass fiber, plasticizers, and pvc resins, which are used in the Company's vinyl and luxury vinyl tile business. In addition to raw materials, the Company sources finished goods. For certain raw materials and sourced products, the Company is dependent on one or a small number of suppliers. An adverse change in the Company's relationship with such a supplier, the financial condition of such a supplier or such supplier's ability to manufacture or deliver such raw materials or sourced products to the Company could lead to an interruption of supply or require the Company to purchase more expensive alternatives. An extended interruption in the supply of these or other raw materials or sourced products used in the Company's business or in the supply of suitable substitute materials or products would disrupt the Company's operations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. The Company relies on information systems in managing the Company's operations and any system failure or deficiencies of such systems may have an adverse effect on the Company's business.. The Company's businesses rely on sophisticated software applications to obtain, process, analyze and manage data. The Company relies on these systems to, among other things:. • facilitate the purchase, management, distribution, and payment for inventory items;. • manage and monitor the daily operations of our distribution network;. • receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis;. • manage accurate billing to and collections from customers;. • control logistics and quality control for our retail operations;. • manage financial reporting; and. • monitor point of sale activity.. 12. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. We also rely on our computer hardware, software and network for the storage, delivery and transmission of data to our sales and distribution systems, and certain of our production processes are managed and conducted by computer.. Any event that causes interruptions to the input, retrieval and transmission of data or increase in the service time, whether caused by human error, natural disasters, power loss, computer viruses, system conversion, cyber attacks including and not limited to hacking, intrusions, malware or otherwise, could disrupt our normal operations. There can be no assurance that we can effectively carry out our disaster recovery plan to handle the failure of our information systems, or that we will be able to restore our operational capacity within sufficient time to avoid material disruption to our business. The occurrence of any of these events could cause unanticipated disruptions in service, decreased customer service and customer satisfaction, harm to our reputation and loss or misappropriation of sensitive information, which could result in loss of customers, increased operating expenses and financial losses. Any such events could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.. The Company's inability to maintain its patent licensing revenues in its laminate flooring business could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. The profit margins of certain of the Company's businesses, particularly the Company's laminate flooring business, depend in part upon the Company's ability to obtain, maintain and license proprietary technology used in the Company's principal product families. The Company has obtained a number of patents relating to the Company's products and associated methods and has filed applications for additional patents, including the UNICLIC and Pergo family of patents, which protect its interlocking laminate flooring technology. The majority of the Uniclic patents expired in 2017. The Company continues to develop new sources of revenue that may partially offset the expiration of its revenue-producing patents. The failure to develop alternative revenues could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. The Company may experience certain risks associated with acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments.. The Company intends to grow its business through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions. Growth through acquisitions involves risks, many of which may continue to affect the Company after the acquisition. The Company cannot give assurance that an acquired company will achieve the levels of revenue, profitability and production that the Company expects. Acquisitions may require the issuance of additional securities or the incurrence of additional indebtedness, which may dilute the ownership interests of existing security holders or impose higher interest costs on the Company. Additional challenges related to the Company's acquisition strategy include:. • maintaining executive offices in different locations;. • manufacturing and selling different types of products through different distribution channels;. • conducting business from various locations;. • maintaining different operating systems and software on different computer hardware; and. • retaining key employees.. Failure to successfully manage and integrate an acquisition with the Company's existing operations could lead to the potential loss of customers of the acquired business, the potential loss of employees who may be vital to the new operations, the potential loss of business opportunities or other adverse consequences that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. Even if integration occurs successfully, failure of the acquisition to achieve levels of anticipated sales growth, profitability, or otherwise perform as expected, may result in goodwill or other asset impairments or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. Finally, acquisition targets may be subject to material liabilities that are not properly identified in due diligence and that are not covered by seller indemnification obligation or third party insurance. The unknown liabilities of the Company's acquisition targets may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. In addition, we have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and lack management and operational control. The controlling joint venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours. Business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner, or the joint venture company, may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture.. 13. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. A failure to identify suitable acquisition candidates or partners for strategic investments and to complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. As part of the Company's business strategy, the Company intends to pursue a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of complementary businesses, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. Although the Company regularly evaluates such opportunities, the Company may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates or to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms to fund such strategic transactions, which may slow the Company's growth and have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. The Company manufactures, sources and sells many products internationally and is exposed to risks associated with doing business globally.. The Company's international activities are significant to its manufacturing capacity, revenues and profits, and the Company is further expanding internationally. The Company sells products, operates plants and invests in companies around the world.  Currently, the Company's Flooring ROW segment has significant operations in Europe, Russia, Malaysia, Australia and New Zealand, and the Company's Global Ceramic segment has significant operations in Europe, Russia and Mexico.  In addition, the Company has invested in joint ventures in Brazil and India related to laminate flooring.. The business, regulatory and political environments in these countries differ from those in the U.S.  The Company's international sales, operations and investments are subject to risks and uncertainties, including:. • changes in foreign country regulatory requirements;. • differing business practices associated with foreign operations;. • various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses;. • imposition of foreign or domestic tariffs and other trade barriers;. • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;. • differing inflationary or deflationary market pressures;. • foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations in tax laws;. • differing labor laws and changes in those laws;. • work stoppages and disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products;. • government price controls;. • extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable;. • potential difficulties repatriating cash from non-U.S. subsidiaries; and. • compliance with laws governing international relations, including those U.S. laws that relate to sanctions and corruption.. The Company cannot assure investors that it will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to address the foregoing risks effectively in each location where the Company does business, and, therefore that the foregoing factors will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. Negative tax consequences could materially and adversely affect the Company's business.. The Company is subject to the tax laws of the many jurisdictions in which we operate.  These tax laws are complex, and the manner in which they apply to our facts is sometimes open to interpretation.  In calculating the provision for income taxes, we must make judgments about the application of these inherently complex tax laws.  Our domestic and international tax liabilities are largely dependent upon the distribution of profit before tax among these many jurisdictions.  However, it also includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the Company that could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets.  Our future results of operations and tax liability could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the Company, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns, and ongoing assessments of our tax exposures.. 14. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. The Company has been, and in the future may be, subject to costs, liabilities and other obligations under existing or new laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. The Company is subject to increasingly numerous and complex laws, regulations and licensing requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which the Company conducts business. The Company faces risks and uncertainties related to compliance with such laws and regulations. In addition, new laws and regulations may be enacted in the U.S. or abroad that may require the Company to incur additional personnel-related, environmental, or other costs on an ongoing basis, such as recently enacted healthcare legislation in the United States.. In particular, the Company's operations are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, storage, treatment, recycling and disposal of materials and finished product. The applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations of agencies or courts. The Company could incur material expenditures to comply with new or existing regulations, including fines and penalties and increased costs of its operations. For example, our manufacturing facilities may become subject to further limitations on the emission of \"greenhouse gases\" due to public policy concerns regarding climate change issues or other environmental or health and safety concerns. While the form of any additional regulations cannot be predicted, a \"cap-and-trade\" system similar to the system that applies to our businesses in the European Union could be adopted in the United States. The Company's manufacturing processes use a significant amount of energy, especially natural gas. Any such \"cap-and-trade\" system or other limitations imposed on the emission of \"greenhouse gases\" could require us to increase our capital expenditures, use our cash to acquire emission credits or restructure our manufacturing operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. The Company's business operations could suffer significant losses from natural disasters, catastrophes, fire or other unexpected events.. Many of the Company's business activities involve substantial investments in manufacturing facilities and many products are produced at a limited number of locations. These facilities could be materially damaged by natural disasters, such as floods, tornados, hurricanes and earthquakes, or by fire or other unexpected events. The Company could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from such events, including damage to its reputation, and/or suffer material losses in operational capacity, which could have a material adverse impact on its business.. The Company may be exposed to litigation, claims and other legal proceedings relating to its products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.. In the ordinary course of business, the Company is subject to a variety of product-related claims, lawsuits and legal proceedings, including those relating to product liability, product warranty, product recall, personal injury, and other matters. A very large claim or several similar claims asserted by a large class of plaintiffs could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, if the Company is unable to successfully defend against or resolve these matters or if its insurance coverage is insufficient to satisfy any judgments against the Company or settlements relating to these matters. Although the Company has product liability insurance, the policies may not provide coverage for certain claims against the Company or may not be sufficient to cover all possible liabilities. Further, the Company may not be able to maintain insurance at commercially acceptable premium levels. Moreover, adverse publicity arising from claims made against the Company, even if the claims are not successful, could adversely affect the Company's reputation or the reputation and sales of its products.. The Company's inability to protect its intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. The Company relies, in part, on the patent, trade secret and trademark laws of the U.S., countries in the European Union and elsewhere, as well as confidentiality agreements with some of the Company's employees, to protect that technology.  The Company cannot assure investors that any patents owned by or issued to it will provide the Company with competitive advantages, that third parties will not challenge these patents, or that the Company's pending patent applications will be approved. The Company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the Company's technology without the Company's authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the Company or designing around the Company's patents.. 15. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Furthermore, despite the Company's efforts, the Company may be unable to prevent competitors and/or third parties from using the Company's technology without the Company's authorization, independently developing technology that is similar to that of the Company or designing around the Company's patents. The use of the Company's technology or similar technology by others could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage the Company has developed, cause the Company to lose sales or otherwise harm the Company's business.. The Company has obtained and applied for numerous U.S. and foreign service marks and trademark registrations and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional service marks and trademarks, as appropriate. The Company cannot guarantee that any of the Company's pending or future applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities.  A failure to obtain trademark registrations in the U.S. and in other countries could limit the Company's ability to protect the Company's trademarks and impede the Company's marketing efforts in those jurisdictions and could have a material effect on the Company's business.. The Company generally requires third parties with access to the Company's trade secrets to agree to keep such information confidential. While such measures are intended to protect the Company's trade secrets, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the Company will have adequate remedies for any breach or that the Company's confidential and proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. In any of these circumstances, the Company's competitiveness could be significantly impaired, which would limit the Company's growth and future revenue.. Third parties may claim that the Company infringed their intellectual property or proprietary rights, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent it from selling the Company's products.. In the past, third parties have claimed that certain technologies incorporated in the Company's products infringe their patent rights.  The Company cannot be certain that the Company's products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others.. The Company might be required to pay substantial damages (including punitive damages and attorney's fees), discontinue the use and sale of infringing products, expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or obtain licenses authorizing the use of infringing technology. There can be no assurance that licenses for disputed technology or intellectual property rights would be available on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. In the event of a successful claim against the Company along with failure to develop or license a substitute technology, the Company's business would be materially and adversely affected.. The long-term performance of the Company's business relies on its ability to attract, develop and retain talented management.. To be successful, the Company must attract, develop and retain qualified and talented personnel in management, sales, marketing, product design, and operations, and as it considers entering new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with those markets. The Company competes with multinational firms for these employees and invests resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. The failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect the Company's competitive position and its operating results.. The Company is subject to changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure that have increased both costs and the risk of noncompliance.. The Company's stock is publicly traded. As a result, the Company is subject to the rules and regulations of federal and state agencies and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, frequently issue new requirements and regulations. The Company's efforts to comply with the regulations and interpretations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative costs and diversion of management's time and attention from profit generating activities to compliance activities.. 16. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Declines in the Company's business conditions may result in an impairment of the Company's assets which could result in a material non-cash charge.. A significant or prolonged decrease in the Company's market capitalization, including a decline in stock price, or a negative long-term performance outlook, could result in an impairment of its assets which results when the carrying value of the Company's assets exceed their fair value.. Forward-Looking Information. Certain of the statements in this Form 10-K, particularly those anticipating future performance, business prospects, growth and operating strategies, and similar matters, and those that include the words \"could,\" \"should,\" \"believes,\" \"anticipates,\" \"expects\" and \"estimates\" or similar expressions constitute \"forward-looking statements\" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. For those statements, Mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. There can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements will be accurate because they are based on many assumptions, which involve risks and uncertainties. The following important factors could cause future results to differ: changes in economic or industry conditions; competition; inflation and deflation in raw material prices and other input costs; inflation and deflation in consumer markets; currency fluctuations; energy costs and supply; timing and level of capital expenditures; timing and implementation of price increases for the Company's products; impairment charges; integration of acquisitions; international operations; introduction of new products; rationalization of operations; tax and tax reform, product and other claims; litigation; regulatory and political changes in the jurisdictions in which we do business; and other risks identified in Mohawk's SEC reports and public announcements."
