[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risks and uncertainties should be carefully considered. If any of the following occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. An investment in our securities is speculative in nature, involves a high degree of risk and should not be made by an investor who cannot bear the economic risk of its investment for an indefinite period of time and who cannot afford the loss of its entire investment.. Risks Relating to Our Business. We are developing our drugs to treat patients who are extremely or terminally ill, and patient deaths that occur in our clinical trials could negatively impact our business even if such deaths are not shown to be related to our drugs.. It is our intention to further develop Annamycin and WP1066 with clinical trials in the near future for the treatment of AML and glioblastoma, respectively. Patients suffering from these diseases are extremely sick and have a high likelihood of experiencing adverse outcomes, including death, as a result of their disease or due to other significant risks including relapse of their underlying malignancies. Many patients have already received high-dose chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy, which are associated with their own inherent risks, prior to treatment with our drugs.. As a result, it is likely that we will observe severe adverse outcomes during our clinical trials for our drugs, including patient death. If a significant number of study subject deaths were to occur, regardless of whether such deaths are attributable to one of our drugs, our ability to obtain regulatory approval and/or achieve commercial acceptance for the related drug may be adversely impacted and our business could be materially harmed.. We will require substantial additional funding, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, and, if not so available, may require us to delay, limit, reduce or cease our operations.. We intend to use the proceeds from our previous offerings, as well as the proceeds from any possible future offerings, to, among other uses, advance Annamycin through clinical development. Developing pharmaceutical products, including conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials, is expensive. We will require substantial additional future capital in order to complete clinical development and commercialize Annamycin. If the FDA requires that we perform additional nonclinical studies or clinical trials, or if we determine, as we did in October 2016, that additional clinical trials are required for Annamycin, our expenses would further increase beyond what we currently expect and the anticipated timing of any potential approval of Annamycin would likely be delayed. Further, there can be no assurance that the costs we will need to incur to obtain regulatory approval of Annamycin will not increase.. We will continue to require substantial additional capital to continue our clinical development and commercialization activities. Because successful development of our product candidates is uncertain, we are unable to estimate the actual amount of funding we will require to complete research and development and commercialize our products under development.. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to:. •whether our updated plan for clinical trials will be completed on a timely basis and, if completed, whether we will be able to publicly announce results from our phase I/II clinical trials in accordance with our announced milestones;. •whether we are successful in obtaining the benefits of FDA's expedited development and review programs related to Annamycin or our other drug candidates;. • the progress, costs, results of and timing of our clinical trials;. • the outcome, costs and timing of seeking and obtaining FDA and any other regulatory approvals;. •the costs associated with securing and establishing commercialization and manufacturing capabilities;. •market acceptance of our product candidates;. •the costs of acquiring, licensing or investing in businesses, products, product candidates and technologies;. 22. •our ability to maintain, expand and enforce the scope of our intellectual property portfolio, including the amount and timing of any payments we may be required to make, or that we may receive, in connection with the licensing, filing, prosecution, defense and enforcement of any patents or other intellectual property rights;. •our need and ability to hire additional management and scientific and medical personnel;. •the effect of competing drug candidates and new product approvals;. •our need to implement additional internal systems and infrastructure, including financial and reporting systems; and. •the economic and other terms, timing of and success of our existing licensing arrangements and any collaboration, licensing or other arrangements into which we may enter in the future.. Some of these factors are outside of our control. Based upon our currently expected level of operating expenditures, we believe that we will be able to fund our operational plan into 2019, assuming not a significant amount of the warrants in our recent public offering are exercised for cash. This period could be shortened if there are any significant increases in planned spending on development programs or more rapid progress of development programs than anticipated. We do not believe that our existing capital resources are sufficient to enable us to complete the development and commercialization of Annamycin, if approved, or to initiate any clinical trials or additional development work needed for any other drug candidates. Accordingly, we expect that we will need to raise additional funds in the future.. We may seek additional funding through a combination of equity offerings, debt financings, government or other third-party funding, commercialization, marketing and distribution arrangements and other collaborations, strategic alliances and licensing arrangements. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, the terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our stockholders. In addition, the issuance of additional shares by us, or the possibility of such issuance, may cause the market price of our shares to decline.. If we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis, we may be required to significantly curtail one or more of our research or development programs. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or otherwise that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies or product candidates or otherwise agree to terms unfavorable to us.. We have recently commenced clinical trials, have a limited operating history and we expect a number of factors to cause our operating results to fluctuate on an annual basis, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance.. We are a clinical stage pharmaceutical company with a limited operating history. Our operations to date have been limited to acquiring our technology portfolio and preparing several drugs for authorization to conduct clinical trials. We have only recently commenced clinical trials with Annamycin and have yet to commence clinical trials for any other drug candidates in our pipeline and have yet to receive regulatory approvals for any of our drug candidates. With regard to Annamycin, the FDA has taken a more risk adverse view than European regulatory authorities, placing greater restrictions on our ability to increase dosing for AML patients, which could cause development in the US to lag behind development in Europe. Additionally, we have a limited amount of drug supply and the amount of drug required may depend upon patient response and the need for additional, unplanned treatments, making it difficult to predict the total amount of drug required.. Consequently, any predictions made about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history or approved products on the market. Our operating results are expected to significantly fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors relating to our business that may contribute to these fluctuations include:. •any delays in regulatory review and approval of our product candidates in clinical development, including our ability to receive approval from the FDA or the Polish authorities for Annamycin;. •delays in the commencement, enrollment and timing of clinical trials;. •difficulties in identifying patients suffering from our target indications;. •the success of our clinical trials through all phases of clinical development;. 23. •potential side effects of our product candidate that could delay or prevent approval or cause an approved drug to be taken off the market;. •our ability to obtain additional funding to develop drug candidates;. •our ability to identify and develop additional drug candidates beyond Annamycin and our WP1066 and WP1122 Portfolios;. •competition from existing products or new products that continue to emerge;. •the ability of patients or healthcare providers to obtain coverage or sufficient reimbursement for our products;. •our ability to adhere to clinical trial requirements directly or with third parties such as contract research organizations (CROs);. •our dependency on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our products and key ingredients;. •our ability to establish or maintain collaborations, licensing or other arrangements, particularly with MD Anderson;. •our ability to defend against any challenges to our intellectual property including, claims of patent infringement;. •our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights against potential competitors;. •our ability to secure additional intellectual property protection for our developing drug candidates and associated technologies;. •our ability to attract and retain key personnel to manage our business effectively; and. •potential product liability claims.. Accordingly, the results of any historical quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indications of future operating performance.. Risks associated with conducting research and clinical trials abroad could materially adversely affect our business.. We have submitted a request for Clinical Trial Authorization in Poland which, if allowed, will enable a clinical trial to study Annamycin for the treatment of relapsed or refractory AML in Poland. Accordingly, we expect that we will be subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries, including:. • differing regulatory requirements in foreign countries;. • unexpected changes in price and exchange controls and other regulatory requirements;. • increased difficulties in managing the logistics and transportation of collecting and shipping patient material;. • import and export requirements and restrictions;. • compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad;. • foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes;. • foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country;. • difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations;. • potential liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 or comparable foreign regulations;. 24. • challenges enforcing our contractual and intellectual property rights, especially in those foreign countries that do not respect and protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States;. • production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and. • business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism.. These and other risks associated with our international operations may materially adversely affect our ability to attain or maintain profitable operations.. We have in the past completed related party transactions that were not conducted on an arm's length basis.. We acquired the rights to the license agreement with MD Anderson covering our WP1122 Portfolio held by IntertechBio Corporation, a company affiliated with certain members of our management and board of directors. We acquired the rights to all data related to the development of Annamycin held by AnnaMed, Inc., a company affiliated with certain members of our management and board of directors. Prior to our IPO, Moleculin, LLC merged with and into our company. Moleculin, LLC was affiliated with certain members of our management and board of directors. Prior to our IPO, we, on Moleculin, LLC's behalf, entered into an agreement with HPI whereby HPI agreed to terminate its option to sublicense certain rights to the WP1066 Portfolio and entered into a co-development agreement with us. Our largest shareholder and a member of our management are shareholders of HPI. None of the foregoing transactions were conducted on an arm's length basis. As such, it is possible that the terms were less favorable to us than in an arm's length transaction.. Our ability to retain the development rights to the WP1066 Portfolio will require us to make up to a total of $1.75 million in payments to HPI, in addition to payments of shares of our common stock and cash made in connection with our IPO, pursuant to the development agreement we entered into with HPI.. Our acquisition of Moleculin, LLC prior to our IPO provided us with the rights to the license agreement Moleculin, LLC had with MD Anderson covering the WP1066 Portfolio. However, Moleculin, LLC previously granted HPI an option to obtain an exclusive sub-license to develop the WP1066 Portfolio in all non-dermatological fields. Prior to our IPO, we, on Moleculin, LLC's behalf, entered into two agreements with HPI. The first agreement terminated HPI's option to obtain the aforementioned exclusive sublicense in exchange for a payment of $100,000 and the issuance of 629,000 shares of our common stock. The second agreement, the HPI Out-Licensing Agreement is a technology rights and development license agreement that provided HPI with a non-exclusive sublicense to develop the WP1066 Portfolio. Pursuant to this HPI Out-Licensing Agreement, we agreed to make payments to HPI of $750,000 over a three-year period commencing after our IPO in exchange for HPI allowing us to access any data, information or know-how resulting from the research and development conducted by HPI, which payments will be expensed when incurred. Notwithstanding our obligation to make the foregoing payments, the HPI Out-Licensing Agreement does not obligate HPI to conduct any specific research or to meet any milestones. Pursuant to the HPI Out-Licensing Agreement, we have the right within three years of the date we entered into the agreement, which occurred in May 2016, to buy-out from HPI all rights granted to HPI under the agreement for a payment of $1.0 million. If we do not exercise the foregoing buy-out right within three years, the license granted to HPI shall convert into an exclusive license even as to our company. As such, if we do not exercise the buy-out right for any reason, we will no longer have access to the non-dermatology uses of the WP1066 Portfolio and all amounts paid to HPI prior to such date will have value only to the extent that the data, information and know-how may be applicable to dermatology applications of the WP1066 Portfolio. We do not expect to maintain a reserve of $1.0 million to exercise the buy-out payment and, as such, we will need to raise additional funds to make the buy-out payment. We cannot assure you that such additional funding, if required, will be available on satisfactory terms, or at all.. We have never been profitable, we have no products approved for commercial sale, and to date we have not generated any revenue from product sales. As a result, our ability to reduce our losses and reach profitability is unproven, and we may never achieve or sustain profitability.. We have never been profitable and do not expect to be profitable in the foreseeable future. We have not yet submitted any drug candidates for approval by regulatory authorities in the United States or elsewhere. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we incurred a net loss of $9.8 million. We had an accumulated deficit of $14.5 million as of December 31, 2017.. To date, we have devoted most of our financial resources to research and development, including our drug discovery research, preclinical development activities and clinical trial preparation, as well as corporate overhead. We have not generated. 25. any revenues from product sales. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we expect these losses to increase as we continue our development of, and seek regulatory approvals for Annamycin and our other drug candidates, prepare for and begin the commercialization of any approved products, and add infrastructure and personnel to support our continuing product development efforts. We anticipate that any such losses could be significant for the next several years. If Annamycin or any of our other drug candidates fail in clinical trials or do not gain regulatory approval, or if our drug candidates do not achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. As a result of the foregoing, we expect to continue to experience net losses and negative cash flows for the foreseeable future. These net losses and negative cash flows have had, and will continue to have, an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and working capital.. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical product development, we are unable to accurately predict the timing or amount of increased expenses or when, or if, we will be able to achieve profitability. In addition, our expenses could increase if we are required by the FDA to perform studies or trials in addition to those currently expected, or if there are any delays in completing our clinical trials or the development of any of our drug candidates. The amount of future net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of future growth of our expenses and our ability to generate revenues.. Our financial condition would be adversely impacted if our intangible assets become impaired.. As a result of the accounting for our acquisition of Moleculin, LLC and the agreement we, on Moleculin, LLC's behalf, entered into with Houston Pharmaceuticals, Inc., we have carried on our balance sheet within intangible assets in-process research and development (\"IPR&D\") of $11.1 million as of December 31, 2017. Intangibles are evaluated quarterly and are tested for impairment at least annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of each segment, and collectively our company taken as a whole, might exceed its fair value.. Intangible assets related to IPR&D are considered indefinite-lived intangible assets and are assessed for impairment annually or more frequently if impairment indicators exist. If the associated research and development effort is abandoned, the related assets will be written-off and the Company will record a noncash impairment loss on its statement of operations. For those compounds that reach commercialization, if any, the IPR&D assets will be amortized over their estimated useful lives.. If we determine that the value of our intangible assets is less than the amounts reflected on our balance sheet, we will be required to reflect an impairment of our intangible assets in the period in which such determination is made. An impairment of our intangible assets would result in our recognizing an expense in the amount of the impairment in the relevant period, which would also result in the reduction of our intangible assets and a corresponding reduction in our stockholders' equity in the relevant period. As the transactions discussed above were related party transactions and were not conducted on an arm's length basis, it is possible that the terms were less favorable to us than what we would have received in an arm's length transaction.. There are limited suppliers for active pharmaceutical ingredients (\"API\") used in Annamycin.. Problems with the third parties that manufacture the API used in Annamycin may delay our clinical trials or subject us to liability.. We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of the API used in Annamycin or any of our product candidates. We have no experience in API manufacturing, and we lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of the APIs used in Annamycin and our product candidates, on either a clinical or commercial scale. As a result, we rely on third parties to supply the API used in Annamycin and each of our product candidates. We expect to continue to depend on third parties to supply the API for Annamycin and our current and future product candidates and to supply the API for Annamycin in commercial quantities. We are ultimately responsible for confirming that the APIs used in Annamycin and our product candidates are manufactured in accordance with applicable regulations.. Our third-party suppliers may not carry out their contractual obligations or meet our deadlines. In addition, the API they supply to us may not meet our specifications and quality policies and procedures or they may not be able to supply the API in commercial quantities. If we need to find alternative suppliers of the API used in Annamycin or any of our product candidates, we may not be able to contract for such supplies on acceptable terms, if at all. Any such failure to supply or delay caused by such contract manufacturers would have an adverse effect on our ability to continue clinical development of our product candidates or commercialize Annamycin.. If our third-party drug suppliers fail to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards in compliance with cGMP regulations, we could be subject to certain product liability claims in the event such failure to comply resulted in defective products that caused injury or harm.. 26. We cannot be certain that Annamycin will receive regulatory approval, and without regulatory approval we will not be able to market Annamycin.. Our business currently depends largely on the successful development and commercialization of Annamycin. Our ability to generate revenue related to product sales, if ever, will depend on the successful development and regulatory approval of Annamycin for the treatment of relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia, or AML.. We currently have no products approved for sale and we cannot guarantee that we will ever have marketable products. The development of a product candidate and issues relating to its approval and marketing are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States and regulatory authorities in other countries, with regulations differing from country to country. We are not permitted to market our product candidates in the United States until we receive approval of a NDA from the FDA. We have not submitted any marketing applications for any of our product candidates.. NDAs must include extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to establish the product candidate's safety and effectiveness for each desired indication. NDAs must also include significant information regarding the chemistry, manufacturing and controls for the product. Obtaining approval of a NDA is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and we may not be successful in obtaining approval. The FDA review processes can take years to complete and approval is never guaranteed. If we submit a NDA to the FDA, the FDA must decide whether to accept or reject the submission for filing. We cannot be certain that any submissions will be accepted for filing and review by the FDA. Regulators in other jurisdictions have their own procedures for approval of product candidates. Even if a product is approved, the FDA may limit the indications for which the product may be marketed, require extensive warnings on the product labeling or require expensive and time-consuming clinical trials or reporting as conditions of approval. Regulatory authorities in countries outside of the United States and Europe also have requirements for approval of drug candidates with which we must comply with prior to marketing in those countries. Obtaining regulatory approval for marketing of a product candidate in one country does not ensure that we will be able to obtain regulatory approval in any other country. In addition, delays in approvals or rejections of marketing applications in the United States, Europe or other countries may be based upon many factors, including regulatory requests for additional analyses, reports, data, preclinical studies and clinical trials, regulatory questions regarding different interpretations of data and results, changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and the emergence of new information regarding our product candidates or other products. Also, regulatory approval for any of our product candidates may be withdrawn.. If we are unable to obtain approval from the FDA, or other regulatory agencies, for Annamycin and our other product candidates, or if, subsequent to approval, we are unable to successfully commercialize Annamycin or our other product candidates, we will not be able to generate sufficient revenue to become profitable or to continue our operations.. Any statements in this report indicating that Annamycin has demonstrated preliminary evidence of efficacy are our own and are not based on the FDA's or any other comparable governmental agency's assessment of Annamycin and do not indicate that Annamycin will achieve favorable efficacy results in any later stage trials or that the FDA or any comparable agency will ultimately determine that Annamycin is effective for purposes of granting marketing approval.. Delays in the commencement, enrollment and completion of clinical trials could result in increased costs to us and delay or limit our ability to obtain regulatory approval for Annamycin and our other product candidates.. Delays in the commencement, enrollment and completion of clinical trials could increase our product development costs or limit the regulatory approval of our product candidates. We do not know whether any future trials or studies of our other product candidates will begin on time or will be completed on schedule, if at all. The start or end of a clinical study is often delayed or halted due to changing regulatory requirements, manufacturing challenges, including delays or shortages in available drug product, required clinical trial administrative actions, slower than anticipated patient enrollment, changing standards of care, availability or prevalence of use of a comparative drug or required prior therapy, clinical outcomes or financial constraints. For instance, delays or difficulties in patient enrollment or difficulties in retaining trial participants can result in increased costs, longer development times or termination of a clinical trial. Clinical trials of a new product candidate require the enrollment of a sufficient number of patients, including patients who are suffering from the disease the product candidate is intended to treat and who meet other eligibility criteria. Rates of patient enrollment are affected by many factors, including the size of the patient population, the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial, that include the age and condition of the patients and the stage and severity of disease, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the availability of effective treatments and/or availability of investigational treatment options for the relevant disease.. 27. A product candidate can unexpectedly fail at any stage of preclinical and clinical development. The historical failure rate for product candidates is high due to scientific feasibility, safety, efficacy, changing standards of medical care and other variables. The results from preclinical testing or early clinical trials of a product candidate may not predict the results that will be obtained in later phase clinical trials of the product candidate. We, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a product candidate at any time for various reasons, including, but not limited to, a belief that subjects participating in such trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or adverse side effects, or other adverse initial experiences or findings. We may not have the financial resources to continue development of, or to enter into collaborations for, a product candidate if we experience any problems or other unforeseen events that delay or prevent regulatory approval of, or our ability to commercialize, product candidates, including:. •inability to obtain sufficient funds required for a clinical trial;. •inability to reach agreements on acceptable terms with prospective CROs and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites;. •negative or inconclusive results from our clinical trials or the clinical trials of others for product candidates similar to ours, leading to a decision or requirement to conduct additional preclinical testing or clinical trials or abandon a program;. •serious and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by subjects in our clinical trials or by individuals using drugs similar to our product candidates;. •conditions imposed by the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials;. •delays in enrolling research subjects in clinical trials;. •high drop-out rates and high fail rates of research subjects;. •inadequate supply or quality of product candidate components or materials or other supplies necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials;. •greater than anticipated clinical trial costs;. •poor effectiveness of our product candidates during clinical trials; or. •unfavorable FDA or other regulatory agency inspection and review of a clinical trial site or vendor.. We have only recently commenced clinical trials and have never submitted an NDA, and any product candidate we advance through clinical trials may not have favorable results in later clinical trials or receive regulatory approval.. Clinical failure can occur at any stage of our clinical development. Clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and our collaborators or we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials or nonclinical studies. In addition, data obtained from trials and studies are susceptible to varying interpretations, and regulators may not interpret our data as favorably as we do, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Success in preclinical studies and early clinical trials does not ensure that subsequent clinical trials will generate the same or similar results or otherwise provide adequate data to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of a product candidate. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including those with greater resources and experience than us, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after seeing promising results in earlier clinical trials. The commencement and completion of future clinical studies could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including, but not limited to:. • a limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients with particular types of cancer for enrollment in our clinical studies;. • delays or failures in reaching acceptable clinical study agreement terms;. • failure of patients to complete the clinical study; and. • unforeseen safety issues.. 28. In addition, the design of a clinical trial can determine whether its results will support approval of a product and flaws in the design of a clinical trial may not become apparent until the clinical trial is well advanced. We may be unable to design and execute a clinical trial to support regulatory approval. Further, clinical trials of potential products often reveal that it is not practical or feasible to continue development efforts.. If Annamycin is found to be unsafe or lack efficacy, we will not be able to obtain regulatory approval for it and our business would be harmed.. In some instances, there can be significant variability in safety and/or efficacy results between different trials of the same product candidate due to numerous factors, including changes in trial protocols, differences in composition of the patient populations, adherence to the dosing regimen and other trial protocols and the rate of dropout among clinical trial participants. We do not know whether any clinical trials we or any of our potential future collaborators may conduct will demonstrate the consistent or adequate efficacy and safety that would be required to obtain regulatory approval and market any products. If we are unable to bring Annamycin to market, or to acquire other products that are on the market or can be developed, our ability to create long-term stockholder value will be limited.. Our product candidates may have undesirable side effects that may delay or prevent marketing approval, or, if approval is received, require them to be taken off the market, require them to include safety warnings or otherwise limit their sales.. Unforeseen side effects from any of our product candidates could arise either during clinical development or, if any product candidates are approved, after the approved product has been marketed. For example, in the most recent Phase I/II dose-ranging clinical trial of Annamycin, conducted by a prior developer, two patients succumbed to tumor lysis syndrome (\"TLS\") resulting from the debris created by Annamycin killing the targeted leukemic blasts more rapidly than their body's ability to cope. Now that this potential has been identified, prophylactic measures intended to protect patients from TLS will be deployed in future clinical trials, but there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective or that other adverse events may not emerge related to our drug. As another example, we intend to attempt to increase the maximum tolerable dose (\"MTD\") for Annamycin by conducting another Phase I dose-ranging trial, however, unforeseen side effects could prevent us from increasing the MTD from the one established in the prior Phase I/II trial. Additional or unforeseen side effects from Annamycin or any of our other product candidates could arise either during clinical development or, if approved, after the approved product has been marketed.. The range and potential severity of possible side effects from therapies such as Annamycin are significant. If Annamycin causes undesirable or unacceptable side effects in the future, this could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and result in the failure to obtain or suspension or termination of marketing approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities or result in marketing approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities only with restrictive label warnings or other limitations.. If any of our product candidates receives marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable or unacceptable side effects caused by such products:. •regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, specific warnings, a contraindication or field alerts to physicians and pharmacies;. •we may be required to change instructions regarding the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product;. •we may be subject to limitations on how we may promote the product;. •sales of the product may decrease significantly;. •regulatory authorities may require us to take our approved product off the market;. •we may be subject to litigation or product liability claims; and. •our reputation may suffer.. 29. Any of these events could prevent us or our potential future collaborators from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase commercialization costs and expenses, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from the sale of our products.. If the FDA does not find the manufacturing facilities of our future contract manufacturers acceptable for commercial production, we may not be able to commercialize any of our product candidates.. We do not intend to manufacture the pharmaceutical products that we plan to sell. We are currently utilizing contract manufacturers for the production of the active pharmaceutical ingredients and the formulation of drug product for our trials of Annamycin that we will need to conduct prior to seeking regulatory approval. However, we do not have agreements for supplies of Annamycin or any of our other product candidates and we may not be able to reach agreements with these or other contract manufacturers for sufficient supplies to commercialize Annamycin if it is approved. Additionally, the facilities used by any contract manufacturer to manufacture Annamycin or any of our other product candidates must be the subject of a satisfactory inspection before the FDA approves the product candidate manufactured at that facility. We are completely dependent on these third-party manufacturers for compliance with the requirements of U.S. and non-U.S. regulators for the manufacture of our finished products. If our manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conform to our specifications and the FDA's current good manufacturing practice standards, or cGMP, and other requirements of any governmental agency whose jurisdiction to which we are subject, our product candidates will not be approved or, if already approved, may be subject to recalls or other negative actions. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured our product candidates, including:. •the possibility that we are unable to enter into a manufacturing agreement with a third party to manufacture our product candidates;. •the possible breach of the manufacturing agreements by the third parties because of factors beyond our control; and. •the possibility of termination or nonrenewal of the agreements by the third parties before we are able to arrange for a qualified replacement third-party manufacturer.. Any of these factors could cause the delay of approval or commercialization of our product candidates, cause us to incur higher costs or prevent us from commercializing our product candidates successfully. Furthermore, if any of our product candidates are approved and contract manufacturers fail to deliver the required commercial quantities of finished product on a timely basis at commercially reasonable prices and we are unable to find one or more replacement manufacturers capable of production at a substantially equivalent cost, in substantially equivalent volumes and quality and on a timely basis, we would likely be unable to meet demand for our products and could lose potential revenue. It may take several years to establish an alternative source of supply for our product candidates and to have any such new source approved by the government agencies that regulate our products.. We have no sales, marketing or distribution experience and we will have to invest significant resources to develop those capabilities or enter into acceptable third-party sales and marketing arrangements.. We have no sales, marketing or distribution experience. To develop sales, distribution and marketing capabilities, we will have to invest significant amounts of financial and management resources, some of which will need to be committed prior to any confirmation that Annamycin or any of our other product candidates will be approved by the FDA. For product candidates where we decide to perform sales, marketing and distribution functions ourselves or through third parties, we could face a number of additional risks, including that we or our third-party sales collaborators may not be able to build and maintain an effective marketing or sales force. If we use third parties to market and sell our products, we may have limited or no control over their sales, marketing and distribution activities on which our future revenues may depend.. We may not be successful in establishing and maintaining development and commercialization collaborations, which could adversely affect our ability to develop certain of our product candidates and our financial condition and operating results.. Because developing pharmaceutical products, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval, establishing manufacturing capabilities and marketing approved products are expensive, we may seek to enter into collaborations with companies that have more experience. Additionally, if any of our product candidates receives marketing approval, we may enter into sales and marketing arrangements with third parties with respect to our unlicensed territories. If we are unable to enter into arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all, we may be unable to effectively market and sell our products in our target markets. We expect to face competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Moreover, collaboration arrangements are complex and. 30. time consuming to negotiate, document and implement and they may require substantial resources to maintain. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish and implement collaborations or other alternative arrangements for the development of our product candidates.. When we collaborate with a third party for development and commercialization of a product candidate, we can expect to relinquish some or all of the control over the future success of that product candidate to the third party. For example, we have formed a collaboration with a Polish drug development company called Dermin, where we have provided them with sub-license rights to our technologies for use in limited territories in exchange for their use of Polish government grant funding to pay for development costs we would otherwise have to fund ourselves. With the exception of Annamycin, Dermin's territories are primarily Poland and lesser surrounding countries, but not including any of the major European markets (UK, Germany, France, Spain and Italy). In the case of Annamycin, Dermin's territories also include Germany, but we retain the right to repurchase that territory for $500,000 at any time in the future.. One or more of our collaboration partners may not devote sufficient resources to the commercialization of our product candidates or may otherwise fail in their commercialization. The terms of any collaboration or other arrangement that we establish may contain provisions that are not favorable to us. In addition, any collaboration that we enter into may be unsuccessful in the development and commercialization of our product candidates. In some cases, we may be responsible for continuing preclinical and initial clinical development of a product candidate or research program under a collaboration arrangement, and the payment we receive from our collaboration partner may be insufficient to cover the cost of this development. If we are unable to reach agreements with suitable collaborators for our product candidates, we would face increased costs, we may be forced to limit the number of our product candidates we can commercially develop or the territories in which we commercialize them. As a result, we might fail to commercialize products or programs for which a suitable collaborator cannot be found. If we fail to achieve successful collaborations, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. Our success depends greatly on the success of Annamycin's development for the treatment of relapsed or refractory AML, and our pipeline of product candidates beyond this lead indication is extremely early stage and limited.. Other than Annamycin, our other two drug candidates, our WP1066 Portfolio and our WP1122 Portfolio, are each in the early stages of development. In addition, our current plan is to use a significant portion of our available funds to support our clinical plan for Annamycin, although this cash utilization may change in the future. As such, we are dependent on the success of Annamycin in the near term. We cannot provide you any assurance that we will be able to successfully advance any of these indications through the development process.. We face competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies and our operating results will suffer if we fail to compete effectively.. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. We have competitors in the United States, Europe and other jurisdictions, including major multinational pharmaceutical companies, established biotechnology companies, specialty pharmaceutical and generic drug companies and universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources, such as larger research and development staff and more experienced marketing and manufacturing organizations than we do. Large pharmaceutical companies, in particular, have extensive experience in clinical testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, recruiting patients and manufacturing pharmaceutical products. These companies also have significantly greater research, sales and marketing capabilities and collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. Established pharmaceutical companies may also invest heavily to accelerate discovery and development of novel compounds or to in-license novel compounds that could make the product candidates that we develop obsolete. As a result of all of these factors, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection and/or FDA approval or discovering, developing and commercializing drugs for the diseases that we are targeting before we do or may develop drugs that are deemed to be more effective or gain greater market acceptance than ours. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large, established companies. In addition, many universities and private and public research institutes may become active in our target disease areas. Our competitors may succeed in developing, acquiring or licensing on an exclusive basis, technologies and drug products that are more effective or less costly than any of our product candidates that we are currently developing or that we may develop, which could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive.. A number of attempts have been made or are under way to provide an improved treatment for AML. Drugs attempting to target a subset of AML patients who present with particular anomalies involving a gene referred to as FLT3 are currently in clinical trials. Other approaches to improve the effectiveness of induction therapy are in early stage clinical trials and, although. 31. they do not appear to address the underlying problems with anthracyclines, we can provide no assurance that such improvements, if achieved, would not adversely impact the need for improved anthracyclines. A modified version of doxorubicin designed to reduce cardiotoxicity is in clinical trials for the treatment of sarcoma and, although this drug does not appear to address multidrug resistance and is not currently intended for the treatment of acute leukemia, we can provide no assurance that it will not become a competitive alternative to Annamycin. Although we are not aware of any other single agent therapies in clinical trials that would directly compete against Annamycin in the treatment of relapsed and refractory AML, we can provide no assurance that such therapies are not in development, will not receive regulatory approval and will reach market before our drug candidate Annamycin. In addition, any such competing therapy may be more effective and / or cost-effective than ours.. If our competitors market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive or that reach the market sooner than our future products, if any, we may not achieve commercial success. In addition, because of our limited resources, it may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in each technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we may be unable to compete effectively. Technological advances or products developed by our competitors may render our technologies or product candidates obsolete, less competitive or not economical.. We may not receive Orphan Drug exclusivity for Annamycin, and if we do, it may not effectively prevent approval of a competing product.. On March 21, 2017, we received notice that the FDA granted Orphan Drug designation for Annamycin for the treatment of AML.  Although we would anticipate Orphan Drug exclusivity being awarded with the approval of Annamycin for that use, we cannot be sure that will occur.  Moreover, even if Orphan Drug exclusivity is granted, we cannot know that it will prevent approval of another product containing Annamycin and intended to treat AML, because any such subsequent product could be demonstrated to be clinically superior to Annamycin.. The composition of matter patent for Annamycin has expired, and other patents have not yet issued, and may not issue.. We intend to pursue patents with claims directed to Annamycin drug product formulations and the methods of use of Annamycin to treat relapsed or refractory AML and other conditions, and methods for its synthesis, as the composition of matter patent protection for Annamycin has expired. As a result, competitors may be able to offer and sell products so long as these competitors do not infringe any other patents that third parties or we hold, including formulation, synthesis and method of use patents. However, particularly with regard to products approved for more than one indication, method of use patents may not provide significant protection, because a competitor could obtain approval for only a non-protected use and thus come to market, where the product may legally be prescribed for the protected use, thus undermining the protection provided by the patent.  Although off-label prescriptions may infringe our method of use patents, the practice is common across medical specialties and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute. Off-label sales would limit our ability to generate revenue from the sale of Annamycin, if approved for commercial sale. The intellectual property rights we have licensed from MD Anderson are subject to the rights of the U.S. government.. We have obtained a royalty-bearing, worldwide, exclusive license to intellectual property rights, including patent rights related to our WP1066 Portfolio and WP1122 Portfolio drug product candidates from MD Anderson. Some of our licensed intellectual property rights from MD Anderson have been developed in the course of research funded by the U.S. government. As a result, the U.S. government may have certain rights to intellectual property embodied in our current or future products pursuant to the Bayh-Dole Act of 1980. Government rights in certain inventions developed under a government-funded program include a non-exclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable worldwide license to use inventions for any governmental purpose. In addition, the U.S. government has the right to require us, or an assignee or exclusive licensee to such inventions, to grant licenses to any of these inventions to a third party if they determine that: (i) adequate steps have not been taken to commercialize the invention; (ii) government action is necessary to meet public health or safety needs; (iii) government action is necessary to meet requirements for public use under federal regulations; or (iv) the right to use or sell such inventions is exclusively licensed to an entity within the U.S. and substantially manufactured outside the U.S. without the U.S. government's prior approval. Additionally, we may be restricted from granting exclusive licenses for the right to use or sell our inventions created pursuant to such agreements unless the licensee agrees to additional restrictions (e.g., manufacturing substantially all of the invention in the U.S.). The U.S. government also has the right to take title to these inventions if we fail to disclose the invention to the government and fail to file an application to register the intellectual property within specified time limits. In addition, the U.S. government may acquire title in any country in which a patent application is not filed within specified time limits. Additionally, certain inventions are subject to transfer restrictions during the term of these agreements and for a period thereafter, including sales of products or components, transfers to foreign subsidiaries for the purpose of the relevant agreements, and transfers to certain foreign third parties. If any of our intellectual property becomes subject to any of. 32. the rights or remedies available to the U.S. government or third parties pursuant to the Bayh-Dole Act of 1980, this could impair the value of our intellectual property and could adversely affect our business.. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights.. We may from time to time seek to enforce our intellectual property rights against infringers when we determine that a successful outcome is probable and may lead to an increase in the value of the intellectual property. If we choose to enforce our patent rights against a party, then that individual or company has the right to ask the court to rule that such patents are invalid or should not be enforced. Additionally, the validity of our patents and the patents we have licensed may be challenged if a petition for post grant proceedings such as inter-partes review and post grant review is filed within the statutorily applicable time with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (\"USPTO\"). These lawsuits and proceedings are expensive and would consume time and resources and divert the attention of managerial and scientific personnel even if we were successful in stopping the infringement of such patents. In addition, there is a risk that the court will decide that such patents are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of such patents is upheld, the court will refuse to stop the other party on the ground that such other party's activities do not infringe our intellectual property rights. In addition, in recent years the U.S. Supreme Court modified some tests used by the USPTO in granting patents over the past 20 years, which may decrease the likelihood that we will be able to obtain patents and increase the likelihood of a challenge of any patents we obtain or license.. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers.. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that these employees, or we, have used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.. If we are not able to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information, the value of our technology and products could be significantly diminished.. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position.. We will need to expand our operations and increase the size of our company, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth.. As of December 31, 2017, we had four full-time and four part-time employees. As we advance our product candidates through preclinical studies and clinical trials, we will need to increase our product development, scientific and administrative headcount to manage these programs. In addition, to meet our obligations as a public company, we may need to increase our general and administrative capabilities. Our management, personnel and systems currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. If we are unable to successfully manage this growth and increased complexity of operations, our business may be adversely affected.. We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel and consultants.. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management, finance, scientific and clinical personnel and consultants due to the intense competition for qualified personnel and consultants among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses. If we are not able to attract and retain necessary personnel and consultants to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our development objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy.. 33. We are highly dependent on the development, regulatory, commercialization and business development expertise of our management team, key employees and consultants. If we lose one or more of our executive officers or key employees or consultants, our ability to implement our business strategy successfully could be seriously harmed. Any of our executive officers or key employees or consultants may terminate their employment at any time. Replacing executive officers, key employees and consultants may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to develop, gain regulatory approval of and commercialize products successfully. Competition to hire and retain employees and consultants from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate these additional key personnel and consultants. Our failure to retain key personnel or consultants could materially harm our business.. In addition, we have scientific and clinical advisors and consultants who assist us in formulating our research, development and clinical strategies. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us and typically they will not enter into non-compete agreements with us. If a conflict of interest arises between their work for us and their work for another entity, we may lose their services. In addition, our advisors may have arrangements with other companies to assist those companies in developing products or technologies that may compete with ours.. Our chief executive officer is currently working for another company.. Walter Klemp, our chairman and chief executive officer is also the chief executive officer of Soliton, Inc., a medical device development company whose business operations we do not believe conflict with those of our company. As we progress, if more of his time as CEO is required and the current officer cannot provide that level of commitment, we will need to identify a suitable CEO who can dedicate such time to our company. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully identify and retain a qualified candidate for this position.. We do not expect that our insurance policies will cover all of our business exposures thus leaving us exposed to significant uninsured liabilities.. We do not carry insurance for all categories of risk that our business may encounter. Although we intend to obtain product insurance before we commence any clinical trials, there can be no assurance that we will secure adequate insurance coverage or that any such insurance coverage will be sufficient to protect our operations to significant potential liability in the future. Any significant uninsured liability may require us to pay substantial amounts, which would adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.. Additionally, we use hazardous materials, and any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time-consuming or costly. We do not carry specific hazardous waste insurance coverage and our property and casualty and general liability insurance policies specifically exclude coverage for damages and fines arising from hazardous waste exposure or contamination.. We may incur penalties if we fail to comply with healthcare regulations.. We are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other illegal activity by our employees, independent contractors, consultants, commercial partners and vendors. In addition to FDA restrictions on the marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal laws have been applied to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries in recent years, as well as consulting or other service agreements with physicians or other potential referral sources. These laws include anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes that prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or, in return for, purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally-financed healthcare programs, and knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services, reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and any practices we adopt may not, in all cases, meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Any challenge to our business practices under these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 34. We may not be able to recover from any catastrophic event affecting our suppliers.. Our suppliers may not have adequate measures in place to minimize and recover from catastrophic events that may substantially destroy their capability to meet customer needs, and any measures they may in place may not be adequate to recover production processes quickly enough to support critical timelines or market demands. These catastrophic events may include weather events such as tornadoes, earthquakes, floods or fires. In addition, these catastrophic events may render some or all of the products at the affected facilities unusable.. We may be materially adversely affected in the event of cyber-based attacks, network security breaches, service interruptions, or data corruption.. We rely on information technology to process and transmit sensitive electronic information and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. We use technology systems to record, process, and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal, and tax requirements. Our information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, user errors or catastrophic events. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect proprietary or confidential information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security. If our systems are breached or suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and we are unable to effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our business and operating results may significantly suffer and we may be subject to litigation, government enforcement actions or potential liability. Security breaches could also cause us to incur significant remediation costs, result in product development delays, disrupt key business operations, including development of our product candidates, and divert attention of management and key information technology resources.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors.. Since our IPO in June 2016, our stock price has ranged from a high of $9.58 to a low of $0.71, and the market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also significantly affect the market price of our common stock.. Your ownership may be diluted if additional capital stock is issued to raise capital, to finance acquisitions or in connection with strategic transactions.. We intend to seek to raise additional funds, finance acquisitions or develop strategic relationships by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, which would reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of the stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 75,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Future issuances of common or preferred stock would reduce your influence over matters on which stockholders vote and would be dilutive to earnings per share. In addition, any newly issued preferred stock could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the common stock. Those rights, preferences and privileges could include, among other things, the establishment of dividends that must be paid prior to declaring or paying dividends or other distributions to holders of our common stock or providing for preferential liquidation rights. These rights, preferences and privileges could negatively affect the rights of holders of our common stock, and the right to convert such preferred stock into shares of our common stock at a rate or price that would have a dilutive effect on the outstanding shares of our common stock.. Shares issuable upon the conversion of warrants or the exercise of outstanding options may substantially increase the number of shares available for sale in the public market and depress the price of our common stock.. We issued the underwriters in our IPO warrants to purchase 107,802 shares of common stock exercisable at a price of $7.50 per share and these warrants remain outstanding as of March 1, 2018. From the February 2017 Offering, we had as of March 1, 2018, outstanding warrants exercisable for an aggregate of 419,772 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of approximately $1.41 per share. On July 29, 2017, the Company entered into a consulting agreement for its investor relations operations and in exchange for the consulting services, we agreed to issue two warrants (to purchase 100,000 and 50,000 shares of common stock at exercise prices of $2.41 and $3.00 per share). These warrants were outstanding. 35. as of March 1, 2018. Additionally from the February 2018 Offering, we had as of March 1, 2018, outstanding warrants exercisable for an aggregate of 2,145,000 shares of common stock, at an exercisable price of $2.80 per share. As of December 31, 2017, we had 1,345,000 options to purchase shares of common stock at a weighted average price of $3.50 per share. To the extent any of these warrants or options are exercised and any additional options are granted and exercised, there will be further dilution to stockholders and investors. Until the options and warrants expire, these holders will have an opportunity to profit from any increase in the market price of our common stock without assuming the risks of ownership. Holders of options and warrants may convert or exercise these securities at a time when we could obtain additional capital on terms more favorable than those provided by the options or warrants. The exercise of the options and warrants will dilute the voting interest of the owners of presently outstanding shares by adding a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock.. The concentration of our common stock ownership by our current management will limit your ability to influence corporate matters.. Our founders, directors and executive officers beneficially own and are able to vote in the aggregate 34% of our outstanding common stock. As such, our founders, directors and executive officers, as stockholders, will continue to have the ability to exert significant influence over all corporate activities, including the election or removal of directors and the outcome of tender offers, mergers, proxy contests or other purchases of common stock that could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their shares of common stock. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our stockholders do not view as beneficial. In addition, such concentrated control could discourage others from initiating changes of control. In such cases, the perception of our prospects in the market may be adversely affected and the market price of our common stock may decline.. Certain provisions in our organizational documents could enable our board of directors to prevent or delay a change of control.. Our organizational documents contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of, or unsolicited acquisition proposals, that a stockholder might consider favorable. These include provisions:. •prohibiting the stockholders from acting by written consent;. •requiring advance notice of director nominations and of business to be brought before a meeting of stockholders;. •requiring a majority vote of the outstanding shares of common stock to amend the bylaws; and. •limiting the persons who may call special stockholders' meetings.. Furthermore, our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights and preferences of these shares without stockholder approval. Any series of preferred stock is likely to be senior to our common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation rights and, possibly, voting rights. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock also could have the effect of discouraging unsolicited acquisition proposals, thus adversely affecting the market price of our common stock.. In addition, Delaware law makes it difficult for stockholders that recently have acquired a large interest in a corporation to cause the merger or acquisition of the corporation against the directors' wishes. Under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, a Delaware corporation may not engage in any merger or other business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder except in limited circumstances, including by approval of the corporation's board of directors.. As a biotechnology company, we are at increased risk of securities class action litigation.. Biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average stock price volatility in recent years, and our common stock price has been particularly volatile ranging from a high of $9.58 to a low of $0.71. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price or liquidity of our common stock. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the issuer. If any of our stockholders were to bring such a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and the attention of management would be diverted from the operation of our business.. 36. We have no intention of declaring dividends in the foreseeable future.. The decision to pay cash dividends on our common stock rests with our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, unencumbered cash, capital requirements and financial condition. We do not anticipate declaring any dividends in the foreseeable future, as we intend to use any excess cash to fund our operations. Investors in our common stock should not expect to receive dividend income on their investment, and investors will be dependent on the appreciation of our common stock to earn a return on their investment.. Failure to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could cause our financial reports to be inaccurate.. We are required pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to assess and report on the effectiveness of those controls. This assessment includes disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. Our management concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were, and continue to be ineffective, and as of the year ended December 31, 2017, identified a material weakness in our internal controls due to the lack of segregation of duties. While management is working to remediate the material weakness, there is no assurance that such changes, when economically feasible and sustainable, will remediate the identified material weaknesses or that the controls will prevent or detect future material weaknesses. If we are not able to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our financial statements, including related disclosures, may be inaccurate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Failure to continue improving our accounting systems and controls could impair our ability to comply with the financial reporting and internal controls requirements for publicly traded companies.. As a public company, we operate in an increasingly demanding regulatory environment, which requires us to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations of the SEC. Company responsibilities required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act include establishing corporate oversight and adequate internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent financial fraud.. Management performed an annual assessment as of December 31, 2017 of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for its annual report. Our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was, and continues to be, ineffective and as of the year ended December 31, 2017, due to a material weakness in our internal controls due to the lack of segregation of duties. For as long as we remain an \"emerging growth company\" as defined in the JOBS Act, we have and intend to consider to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies\" including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may continue to take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an \"emerging growth company.\" During 2016, we were required to restate certain financial periods due to an error in the accounting for our business combination of Moleculin, LLC. To remediate this material weakness, we engaged an outside firm to assist management with such accounting and will continue to use outside firms as a resource to deal with other non-recurring or unusual transactions. However, notwithstanding our remediation efforts, there is no assurance we will not encounter future accounting errors in the future. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and results of operations could be harmed, and investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information.. As an \"emerging growth company\" under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or JOBS Act, we are permitted to, and intend to, rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements.. As an \"emerging growth company\" under the JOBS Act, we are permitted to, and intend to, rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements. We are an emerging growth company until the earliest of:. •the last day of the fiscal year during which we have total annual gross revenues of $1 billion or more;. •the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our IPO, or December 31, 2021;. •the date on which we have, during the previous 3-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt; or. •the date on which we are deemed a \"large accelerated issuer\" as defined under the federal securities laws.. 37. For so long as we remain an emerging growth company, we will not be required to:. •have an auditor report on our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002;. •comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis);. •submit certain executive compensation matters to shareholders advisory votes pursuant to the \"say on frequency\" and \"say on pay\" provisions (requiring a non-binding shareholder vote to approve compensation of certain executive officers) and the \"say on golden parachute\" provisions (requiring a non-binding shareholder vote to approve golden parachute arrangements for certain executive officers in connection with mergers and certain other business combinations) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010;. •include detailed compensation discussion and analysis in our filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and instead may provide a reduced level of disclosure concerning executive compensation; and. •may present only two years of audited financial statements and only two years of related Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or MD&A.. We intend to take advantage of all of these reduced reporting requirements and exemptions. Certain of these reduced reporting requirements and exemptions were already available to us due to the fact that we also qualify as a \"smaller reporting company\" under SEC rules. For instance, smaller reporting companies are not required to obtain an auditor attestation and report regarding management's assessment of internal control over financial reporting; are not required to provide a compensation discussion and analysis; are not required to provide a pay-for-performance graph or CEO pay ratio disclosure; and may present only two years of audited financial statements and related MD&A disclosure.. Under the JOBS Act, we may take advantage of the above-described reduced reporting requirements and exemptions until December 31, 2021, or such earlier time that we no longer meet the definition of an emerging growth company. In this regard, the JOBS Act provides that we would cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" if we have more than $1.0 billion in annual revenues, have more than $700 million in market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates, or issue more than $1.0 billion in principal amount of non-convertible debt over a three-year period. Further, under current SEC rules, we will continue to qualify as a \"smaller reporting company\" for so long as we have a public float (i.e., the market value of common equity held by non-affiliates) of less than $75 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter.. We cannot predict if investors will find our securities less attractive due to our reliance on these exemptions. If investors were to find our common stock less attractive as a result of our election, we may have difficulty raising capital.. If we are unable to maintain compliance with the listing requirements of The Nasdaq Capital Market, our common stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and could make it more difficult for you to sell your shares.. Our common stock is listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market, and we are therefore subject to its continued listing requirements, including requirements with respect to the market value of publicly-held shares, market value of listed shares, minimum bid price per share, and minimum stockholder's equity, among others, and requirements relating to board and committee independence. If we fail to satisfy one or more of the requirements, we may be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market.. In May 2017, we received a notice that we were not in compliance with the $1.00 minimum closing bid price requirement set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). On July 6, 2017, we received a letter from NASDAQ notifying us that we had regained compliance with the rule as a result of the closing bid price of our common stock being at $1.00 per share or greater for the 10 consecutive business days from June 21, 2017 through July 5, 2017.. In the future, we may again fail to comply with the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market, which would subject our common stock to being delisted. Delisting from The Nasdaq Capital Market would adversely affect. 38. our ability to raise additional financing through the public or private sale of equity securities, may significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and may negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. Delisting also could have other negative results, including the potential loss of employee confidence, the loss of institutional investors or interest in business development opportunities.. 39"
