[1] "ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Investing in our Company involves risk. The reader should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks set forth below are those that management believes are most likely to have a material adverse effect on us, however, are not a comprehensive description of the risks facing our Company. We may also be subject to other risks or uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial but may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods. If the following risks or uncertainties, individually or in combination, actually occur, they may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects.. Risks Specific to Our Company. The global beer industry is constantly evolving, and our position within the global beer industry and our markets in which we operate may fundamentally change. If we do not successfully transform along with the evolving industry and market dynamics, then the result could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.    The brewing industry has significantly evolved over the years becoming an increasingly global beer market. For many years, the industry operated primarily on local presence with modest international expansion achieved through export, license and partnership arrangements, whereas it has now become increasingly complex as the global consolidation of brewers has resulted in fewer major market participants. At the same time, smaller local brewers within certain geographies are seeing accelerated growth as consumers increasingly place value on locally-produced and/or regionally-sourced products. As a result of the increased global consolidation of brewers and the dynamic of an expanding new segment within the industry with new market entrants, the markets in which we operate, particularly the more mature markets, may evolve at a disadvantage to our current market position and local governments may intervene, which may fundamentally accelerate transformational changes to such markets. For example, U.S. and Canada beer markets have long consisted of a select number of significant market participants with government-regulated routes to market. However, evolution in these and others of our beer markets together with emerging changes to consumer preferences have introduced a significant expansion of market entrants and resulted in increased consumer choice and market competition, as well as increased government scrutiny. Specifically, in the U.S., Canada and Europe, we have experienced vast expansion in the craft beer industry along with the expansion of cider and flavored malt beverages and, accordingly, among other things, we have strategically acquired several craft breweries. If our competitors are able to respond more quickly to the evolving trends within the craft beer, cider and flavored malt beverages categories, or if our new products are not successful, our business and financial results may be adversely impacted. In Canada, changes to interprovincial trade rules, regulations, distribution models, and packaging requirements, such as government-owned retail outlets and industry standard returnable bottles, may be disadvantageous to us. Currently, in Ontario and other provinces, provincial governments are reviewing and/or changing this historical foundation as a result of this market evolution and increased demand by some for government intervention to enhance competition and choice. In addition, the Supreme Court of Canada is currently considering the validity of certain interprovincial trade rules, which, among other things, may favor local or small brewers, and any changes could adversely impact our operating model across Canada. If we are unsuccessful in evolving with, and navigating through, the changes to the markets in which we operate, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. See risk factors below under \"Risks Specific to the Canadian Segment\" for additional risks specific to competition in the Canadian beer market.. Competition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.    In many of our markets, our primary competitors have greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than we do, and may be more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. In all of the markets in which we operate, aggressive marketing strategies, such as reduced pricing, brand positioning, and increased capital investments by these competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, continuing consolidation among major global brewers may lead to stronger or new competitors, loss of partner brands, negative impacts on our distributor networks and pressures from marketing and pricing tactics by competitors.  Further, consolidation of distributors in our industry could reduce our ability to promote our brands in the market in a manner that enhances rather than diminishes their value, as well as reduce our ability to manage our pricing effectively.  Additionally, due to competition with brewers and other beverage companies, an increase in the purchasing power of our large competitors may cause further pricing pressures which could prevent us from increasing prices to recover higher costs necessary to compete. Such pressures could have a material adverse impact our on our business and our financial results and market share. Failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through our ongoing initiatives could adversely affect our profitability.  Increased pressures for reduced pricing or difficulties in increasing prices while remaining competitive within our markets, as well as the need for increased capital investment, marketing and other expenditures could result in lower margins or loss of market share and volumes. Moreover, most of our major markets are mature, so growth opportunities may be more limited to us than to our competitors. For example, sales in the U.S. and Canada accounted for approximately 80% of our total 2017 sales.. 21. Table of Contents. Our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets specific to the beer industry; if consumer preferences shift away from our products or consumption of our products decline, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected.    Our Coors Light and Miller Lite brands in the U.S., Coors Light, Molson Canadian, Coors Banquet and Carling brands in Canada, and Carling, Staropramen, Jelen, Bergenbier and Coors Light brands in Europe represented approximately half of each respective segment's sales volumes in 2017. Additionally, several of our brands represent a significant share of their respective market, therefore volatility in these markets could disproportionately impact the performance of these brands. Consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Consumer preferences and tastes may shift away from our brands or beer generally due to, among others, changing taste preferences, demographics, downturn in economic conditions or perceived value, as well as changes in consumers' perception of our brands due to negative publicity, regulatory actions or litigation. Recently, there has been more attention focused on health concerns and the harmful effects of alcoholic beverages which could result in a change in the social acceptability of beer and other alcoholic beverages which could materially impact the consumption of beer and our sales. Additionally, in some of our major markets, specifically Canada, the U.S. and Europe, there has been a shift in consumer preferences within the total beer market away from premium brands to \"craft beer\" produced by smaller, regional microbreweries, as well as a shift within the total alcohol beverage market from beer to wine and spirits. Moreover, several of our major markets are mature and we have a significant share in such markets, therefore, small movements in consumer preference, such as a consumer shift away from premium light brands, can disproportionately impact our results. Although the ultimate impact is currently unknown, the emergence of legal cannabis in certain U.S. states and Canada may result in a shift of discretionary income away from our products or a change in consumer preferences away from beer.  As a result, a shift in consumer preferences away from our products or beer or a decline in the consumption of our products could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. The success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, product quality and protection of intellectual property.    It is important that we maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing brands and products. Concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our brands and products. While we have quality control programs in place, in the event we experienced an issue with product quality, we may experience recalls or liability in addition to business disruption which could further negatively impact brand image and reputation and negatively affect our sales. Our brand image and reputation may also be more difficult to protect due to less oversight and control as a result of the outsourcing of some of our operations. We also could be exposed to lawsuits relating to product liability or marketing or sales practices.  Deterioration to our brand equity may be difficult to combat or reverse and could have a material effect on our business and financial results. In addition, because our brands carry family names, personal activities by certain members of the Molson or Coors families that harm their public image or reputation could have an adverse effect on our brands. Further, our success is dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including trademarks, patents, domain names, trade secrets and know-how. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate these rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Weak, or weakening of, economic or other negative conditions in the markets in which we do business could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.    Beer consumption in many of our markets is closely tied to general economic conditions and a significant portion of our portfolio consists of premium and above premium brands. Difficult macroeconomic conditions in our markets, such as decreases in per capita income and level of disposable income driven by increases to inflation, income taxes, the cost of living, unemployment levels, political or economic instability or other country-specific factors could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products. For example, a trend towards value brands in certain of our markets or further deterioration of the current economic conditions could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. A significant portion of our consolidated net sales revenues are concentrated in the U.S. Therefore, unfavorable macroeconomic conditions, such as a recession or slowed economic growth, in the U.S. could negatively affect consumer demand for our product in this important market. Under difficult economic conditions, consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by forgoing purchases of our products or by shifting away from our products to lower-priced products offered by other companies. Softer consumer demand for our products in the U.S. could reduce our profitability and could negatively affect our overall financial performance.. We may not be able to realize anticipated cost and operational synergies from the Acquisition.    The success of the Acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated cost and operational synergies. Our success in realizing these cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of our business and operations with the acquired business and operations. Even if we are able to integrate the acquired businesses and operations successfully,. 22. Table of Contents. this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the cost and operational synergies of the Acquisition that we currently expect within the anticipated time frame, or at all.. The Acquisition subjects us to significant additional liabilities, costs and other risks.    We have assumed all of the liabilities of MillerCoors, including, among others, significant pension and other post-employment benefit liabilities. The assumed liabilities put additional pressure on our ability to successfully meet our deleveraging commitments and grow our business over time as discussed further below. In addition, as a result of the Acquisition, we are subject to the risks of the U.S. beer market to a much greater extent, and a significant majority of our overall business is in mature, low growth beer markets, such as the U.S., Canada and the U.K. Economic conditions and consumer preferences in these markets will have a greater impact on our results of operations and financial condition.. We may also incur additional costs in the course of the integration of the Miller International Business, and we cannot be certain that the elimination of duplicative costs or the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will offset the transaction and integration costs in the near term, or at all. Integrations of acquired businesses are complex, costly, and time-consuming, and such activities divert management's time and attention. The assumption of liabilities in the Acquisition, coupled with any delays, additional costs, or issues experienced during the integration period could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We face numerous risks associated with the integration of the Miller International Business.    The acquisition of the Miller International Business may subject us to unknown expenses and liabilities. These risks arise because we acquired the Miller International Business from ABI at a time when we had no access to historical financial statements or information which were then in the possession of SABMiller. Accordingly, our due diligence was limited. Under a settlement agreement entered into with ABI in January 2018, we received an Adjustment Amount of $328 million related to the Acquisition; however, this adjustment may not be sufficient to mitigate all our risks related to the limited due diligence and incomplete historical financial statements and information of the Miller International Business. The success of our acquisition of the Miller International Business will depend, in part, on our ability to realize all or some of the anticipated synergies and other benefits from integrating this business with our existing businesses and operations. The potential difficulties of the continuing integration of operations include, among others:. • failure to implement our business plan for the combined business;. • impacts of change in control provisions in contracts and agreements;. • failure to retain key customers, employees and suppliers;. • unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations;. • inherent operating risks in the business;. • unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities;. • increased foreign currency exposures which could adversely affect the amounts recorded for our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and could have a negative effect on our results of operations;. • unfamiliarity with operating in many of the countries in which the Miller International Business operates;. • reliance on competitors, ABI (or Asahi, in the case of Europe), to provide production services as we continue to transition the business;. • failure to develop sustainable production sources prior to the expiration of ABI's (or Asahi's, in the case of Europe) production services.. We may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that each of the Company and the Miller International Business had achieved or might achieve separately. The markets in which the Miller International Business operates may not experience the growth rates expected and any economic downturn affecting those markets could negatively impact the Miller International Business. These markets are in differing stages of development and may experience more volatility than expected or face more operating risks than in the more mature markets in which we have historically operated. If the Miller International Business or the markets in which it operates deteriorate, the potential cost savings, growth opportunities and other synergies of the acquisition of the Miller International Business may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer. 23. Table of Contents. to realize than expected. In such case, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively impacted.. Our debt level, which increased significantly to fund the Acquisition, subjects us to financial and operating risks, and the agreements governing such debt subject us to financial and operating covenants and restrictions. Our indebtedness subjects us to financial and operating covenants, including restrictions on priority indebtedness, leverage thresholds, liens, certain types of secured debt and certain types of sale lease-back transactions and transfers of assets, which may limit our flexibility in responding to our business needs. If we are not able to maintain compliance with stated financial covenants or if we breach other covenants in any debt agreement, we could be in default under such agreement. Such a default would adversely affect our credit ratings, may allow our creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness, and may result in the acceleration of any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. Our significant debt level and the terms of such debt could, among other things:. •make it more difficult to satisfy our obligations under the terms of our indebtedness;. •limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all;. •limit our flexibility to plan for and adjust to changing business and market conditions and increase our. vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;. •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to make interest and principal payments on our. debt, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future acquisitions, working capital, business. activities, and other general corporate requirements;. •limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, strategic. opportunities, including acquisitions or other investments, to fund growth or for general corporate purposes,. even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity, particularly if any ratings assigned to our debt securities. by rating organizations were revised downward; and. •adversely impact our competitive position in the industry.. Failure to comply with our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain future financing at competitive rates and/or our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness.    Under the terms of each of our debt facilities, we must comply with certain restrictions. These include restrictions on priority indebtedness (certain threshold percentages of secured consolidated net tangible assets), leverage thresholds, liens, and restrictions on certain types of sale lease-back transactions and transfers of assets. Failure to comply with these restrictions or maintain our credit rating may result in issues with our current financing structure and potential future financing requirements.. A deterioration in our credit rating could increase our borrowing rates or have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain future financing or refinance current debt.    Ratings agencies may downgrade our credit ratings below their current investment grade levels if we are unable to meet our deleveraging commitments. A credit ratings downgrade could increase our costs of future borrowing and harm our ability to refinance our debt in the future on acceptable terms or access the capital markets. We currently intend to hold per share dividends constant and have suspended both our dividend target of 18% to 22% of trailing annualized EBITDA and our share repurchase program. We also intend to use cash from operations to reduce our debt level, which will reduce funds available for other operational or strategic needs and may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions.. Default by or failure of one or more of our counterparty financial institutions could cause us to incur significant losses.    As part of our risk management activities, we enter into transactions involving derivative financial instruments, including, among others, forward contracts, commodity swap contracts, option contracts, with various financial institutions. In addition, we have significant amounts of cash and cash equivalents on deposit or in accounts with banks or other financial institutions in the U.S. and abroad. As a result, we are exposed to the risk of default by, or failure of, counterparty financial institutions. The risk of counterparty default or failure may be heightened during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty in the financial markets. If one of our counterparties were to become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, our ability to recover losses incurred as a result of default or to retrieve our assets that are deposited or held in accounts with such counterparty may be limited by the counterparty's liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings.. 24. Table of Contents. Our operations face significant exposure to changes in commodity prices, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results.    We use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials, some of which are purchased through supply contracts with third parties, to produce our products, including barley, malted barley, hops, corn, other various starches, water and packaging materials, including aluminum cans and bottles, glass and polyethylene terephthalate containers, as well as, cardboard and other paper products. We also use a significant amount of diesel fuel, natural gas and electricity in our operations. The supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, alternative sources for suppliers, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), trade agreements among producing and consuming nations, governmental regulations, including tariffs, frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, inflation, plant diseases and theft. To the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the availability or prices of ingredients or packaging or our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks and we are not able to pass these increased costs along to customers, our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted.. Unfavorable outcomes of legal or regulatory proceedings may adversely affect our business and financial condition. We are from time to time involved in or subject to legal or regulatory proceedings related to our business. Such proceedings can be complex, costly, and highly disruptive to business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and other key personnel. The assessment of the outcome of such proceedings, including our potential liability, if any, is a highly subjective process that requires judgments about future events that are not within our control. The outcome of litigation, arbitration, regulatory or other proceedings, including amounts ultimately received or paid upon judgment or settlement, may differ materially from management's outlook or estimates, including any amounts accrued in the financial statements. Actual outcomes, including judgments, awards, settlements or orders, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, or cash flows.. We may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In connection with various business combinations, we have historically allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. For example, as a result of the Acquisition, we have allocated approximately $6.3 billion and $7.6 billion to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, respectively. These assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. Additionally, in conjunction with the brand impairment tests, we also reassess each brand's indefinite-life classification. Potential resulting charges from an impairment of goodwill or brand intangible, as well as reclassification of an indefinite-lived to a definite-lived brand intangible, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, the results of our annual impairment testing completed as of October 1, 2016, indicated that the fair value of the Molson core brand indefinite-lived intangible asset was below its carrying value. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $495.2 million recorded within special items in our consolidated statements of operations during the fourth quarter of 2016. Additionally, during this review, we also reassessed the asset's indefinite-life classification and determined that the Molson core brands have characteristics that have evolved which now indicate a definite-life is more appropriate. These brands were therefore reclassified as definite-lived intangible assets and will be amortized over useful lives ranging from 30 to 50 years.. Our most recent impairment analysis, conducted as of October 1, 2017, the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter, indicated that the fair value of the U.S., Europe and Canada reporting units were estimated at approximately 28%, 18% and 26% in excess of their carrying values, respectively. Although the fair values of our reporting units are sufficiently in excess of their carrying values, the fair values are sensitive to potential unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows, macroeconomic conditions, market multiples or discount rates that could have an adverse impact. Any future impairment of the U.S., Europe or Canada reporting units or brands, or reclassification of indefinite-lived brands to definite-lived, may result in material charges that could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Additionally, if the on-going integration of the MillerCoors and Miller International Business is unsuccessful due to, for example, unexpected challenges or difficulties, or adverse economic, market or industry conditions, material impairment charges may be incurred in the future. The testing of our goodwill for impairment is predicated upon our determination of our reporting units. Any change to the conclusion of our reporting units or the aggregation of components within our reporting units could result in a different outcome to our annual impairment test. See Part II-Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Estimates and Part II-Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 11, \"Goodwill and Intangible Assets\" of the Notes for additional information related to the results of our annual impairment testing.. Termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.    We manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies through various joint venture, licensing, distribution, contract brewing or other similar arrangements, such as our agreement to import, market, distribute and sell Heineken in Canada and our arrangements to brew and distribute Beck's, Stella Artois, Lowenbrau and. 25. Table of Contents. Spaten and to distribute Corona in Central Europe. Our inability to renew or the loss of one or more of these arrangements, as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. For example, our 2015 Europe results were adversely impacted by the termination of our brewing and kegging agreement with Heineken under which we produced and packaged the Foster's and Kronenbourg brands in the U.K. Additionally, in 2017, our International segment was adversely impacted by the loss of the Modelo brands in Japan.. Changes in various supply chain standards or agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.    Our business includes various joint venture and industry agreements which standardize parts of the supply chain system. An example includes our warehousing and customer delivery systems in Canada organized under joint venture agreements with other brewers. Any negative change in these agreements or material terms within these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. We rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging materials we need to operate our business. The inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.    We purchase certain types of packaging materials including aluminum cans and bottles, glass bottles and paperboard from a small number of suppliers. Consolidation of packaging materials suppliers has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. The inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Additionally, if the financial condition of these suppliers deteriorates our business and financial results could be adversely impacted. Our suppliers' financial condition is affected in large part by conditions and events that are beyond our and their control, including: competitive and general market conditions in the locations in which they operate; the availability of capital and other financing resources on reasonable terms; loss of major customers; or disruptions of bottling operations that may be caused by strikes, work stoppages, labor unrest or natural disasters. A deterioration of the financial condition or results of operations of one or more of our major suppliers could adversely affect our business and financial results.. Risks associated with operating our joint ventures may materially adversely affect our business and financial results.    We have entered into several joint ventures, including our joint ventures with Ball Corporation (i.e. Rocky Mountain Metal Container), and with Owens-Brockway Glass Container Inc. (i.e. Rocky Mountain Bottle Company), for a portion of our aluminum and glass packaging supply in the U.S. We may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. Our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or with the goals of the joint venture. In addition, we compete against our joint venture partners in certain of our other markets. Disagreements with our business partners may impede our ability to maximize the benefits of our partnerships. Our joint venture arrangements may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments or to seek our joint venture partner's consent to take certain actions. In addition, our joint venture partners may be unable or unwilling to meet their economic or other obligations under the operative documents, and we may be required to either fulfill those obligations alone to ensure the ongoing success of a joint venture or to dissolve and liquidate a joint venture. For example, effective in 2014 we terminated our Modelo Molson Imports, L.P. joint venture that imported, distributed and marketed the Modelo beer brand portfolio across all Canadian provinces and territories which had an adverse effect on our Canadian volumes and financial results.. Our operations in developing and emerging markets expose us to additional risks which could harm our business and financial results.    We expect our operations in developing and emerging markets to become more significant to our operating results as we continue to further expand internationally, including in connection with our acquisition of the Miller International Business. In certain of these markets, we have limited operating experience and may not succeed. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our operations in these markets expose us to additional risks, including: changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions; restrictions on foreign ownership and investments; repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the U.S.; import and export requirements; increased costs to ensure compliance with complex foreign laws and regulations; currency exchange rate fluctuations; a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment, which among other things can create uncertainty with regard to liability issues; longer payment cycles, increased credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences.. In addition, as a global company, we are subject to foreign and U.S. laws and regulations designed to combat governmental corruption, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, each of which could have a materially negative effect on our brands and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign. 26. Table of Contents. Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, there can be no assurance that our employees, business partners or agents will not violate our policies.. Changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results.    Many countries in which we operate regulate the distribution of alcohol products and if those regulations were changed, it could alter our business practices and have material adverse effect on our business and financial results. For example, in the U.S. market, there is a three-tier distribution system that governs the sale of malt beverage products. That system, consisting of required separation of manufacturers, distributors and retailers, dates back to the repeal of prohibition and is periodically subject to legal challenges. To the extent that such challenges are successful and allow changes to the three-tier system, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our U.S. segment results of operations. Further, in Canada, our products are required to be distributed through each province's respective provincial liquor board. Additionally, in certain Canadian provinces, we rely on our joint venture arrangements, such as BRI and BDL, to distribute our products via retail outlets that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. BRI owns and operates commercial retail outlets, known as The Beer Store, in Ontario, and BDL facilitates the distribution of our products in the Western Canadian provinces. If provincial regulation should change, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the Canadian dollar and the European operating currencies such as, Euro, British Pound, Czech Koruna, Croatian Kuna, Serbian Dinar, New Romanian Leu, Bulgarian Lev and Hungarian Forint.    We hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in Canada and throughout Europe. Because our financial statements are presented in USD, we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into USD. Increases and decreases in the value of the USD will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. Additionally, we are exposed to currency transaction risks related to transactions denominated in currencies other than one of the functional currencies of our operating entities, such as the purchase of certain raw material inputs or capital expenditures, as well as sales transactions and debt issuances or other incurred obligations. Further, certain actions by the government of any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely affect our results and financial position. To the extent that we fail to adequately manage these risks through our risk management policies intended to protect our exposure to currency movements, which may affect our operations, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. As a result of the U.K. vote to leave the European Union, the GBP experienced a significant decline in comparison to USD and EUR and may continue to be volatile. Any significant further weakening of the GBP to the USD will have an adverse impact on our European revenues as reported in USD due to the importance of U.K. sales. Additionally, the strengthening of the USD against the Canadian dollar, European currencies and various other global currencies would adversely impact our USD reported results due to the impact on foreign currency translation.. Changes in tax, environmental, trade or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could cause volatility or have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.    Our business is highly regulated by national, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in various jurisdictions regarding such matters as tariffs, licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, ingredient regulations, and other matters. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent re-evaluation, varying interpretations and political debate and inquiries from government regulators charged with their enforcement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. For example, on December 22, 2017, H.R. 1, also known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the \"2017 Tax Act\"), was enacted in the U.S. This enactment resulted in a number of significant changes to U.S. federal income tax law for U.S. corporations.  Most notably, the statutory federal corporate income tax rate was changed from 35% to 21% for corporations and, as a result, we recorded an estimated net tax benefit of approximately $434 million in our consolidated statements of operations during the fourth quarter of 2017 driven by the effects of the 2017 Tax Act on our deferred tax positions as of December 31, 2017. Our initial assessment of the impacts of the 2017 Tax Act is preliminary as we continue to evaluate the 2017 Tax Act and understand its implications, as well as the related, and yet to be issued, regulator rules, regulations and interpretations. If our complete and final assessment and understanding of the 2017 Tax Act differs significantly from this initial assessment, or the forthcoming rules, regulations and interpretations change our preliminary conclusions, the resulting impacts could have a material adverse impact on our tax rate and cash tax expectations. Additionally, modifications of U.S. laws and policies governing foreign trade and investment (including trade agreements and tariffs, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement or aluminum tariffs currently being evaluated by the U.S. government) could adversely affect our supply chain, business and results of operations. Failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or changes in these laws, regulations, or interpretations thereof, or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of, and potential future developments in, complex. 27. Table of Contents. domestic and international tax laws and regulations, the amount and timing of future taxable income and the interaction of such laws and regulations among jurisdictions. Given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded. Finally, advocates of prohibition and other severe restrictions on the marketing and sales of alcohol are becoming increasingly organized and coordinated on a global basis, seeking to impose laws or regulations or to bring actions against us, to curtail substantially the consumption of alcohol, including beer, in developed and developing markets. To the extent such views gain traction in regulations of jurisdictions in which we do or plan to do business, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. For example, in early 2016, the government of Bihar, India, the largest state in India in which our International segment operates, announced a complete prohibition on the sale and distribution of alcohol.. Climate change and water availability may negatively affect our business and financial results.    There is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in global weather patterns and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. Changing weather patterns and more volatile weather conditions could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions which may impact quality, limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as hops, barley and other cereal grains, which are important ingredients for our products. Increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain, distribution networks and routes to market, or impact demand for our products. In addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. Clean water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and climate change may increase water scarcity and cause a deterioration of water quality in areas where we maintain brewing operations. The competition for water among domestic, agricultural and manufacturing users is increasing in some of our brewing communities. Even where water is widely available, water purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain our operations.. Loss or closure of a major brewery or other key facility, due to unforeseen or catastrophic events or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.    Our business could be interrupted and our financial results could be materially adversely impacted by physical risks such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, terror attacks and other natural disasters or catastrophic events that damage or destroy one of our breweries or key facilities or the key facilities of our significant suppliers. Additionally, certain catastrophes are not covered by our general insurance policies, which could result in significant unrecoverable losses. Furthermore, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted by under-investment in physical assets or production capacity, including contract brewing and effect on priority of our brands if production capacity is limited. Further, significant excess capacity at any of our breweries as a result of increased efficiencies in our supply chain process or continued volume declines, could result in under-utilization of our assets, which could lead to excess overhead expenses or additional costs incurred associated with the closure of one or more of our facilities. For example, as part of a strategic review of our supply chain network, certain breweries and bottling lines were closed during 2015 and 2016 and we incurred related costs during 2017. We regularly review our supply chain network to ensure that our supply chain capacity is aligned with the needs of the business. Such reviews could potentially result in further closures and the related costs could be material.. Failure to successfully identify, complete or integrate attractive acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.    We have made a number of acquisitions and entered into several strategic joint ventures. In order to compete in the consolidating global brewing industry, we anticipate that we may, from time to time, in the future acquire additional businesses or enter into additional joint ventures that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business such as the Acquisition. Potential risks associated with acquisitions and joint ventures could include, among other things: our ability to identify attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to offer potential acquisition targets and joint venture partners' competitive transaction terms; our ability to raise capital on reasonable terms to finance attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to realize the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the acquisition or joint venture; diversion of management's attention; our ability to successfully integrate our businesses with the business of the acquired company; motivating, recruiting and retaining key employees; conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining sales, marketing and corporate operations; potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition or entry into a joint venture.. Poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably affect our business, liquidity and our financial results.    Our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, future government regulation,. 28. Table of Contents. global equity prices, and our required and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. While we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans' assets. These funding requirements also may require contributions even when there is no reported deficit. Without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets, and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the plans with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations (or the timing of such contributions) could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, credit rating, cost of borrowing, financial position and/or results of operations. For example, following the completion of the triennial review of the U.K. pension plan with the plan's trustees in 2014, we made a GBP 150 million contribution to our U.K. pension plan in January 2015, based on the underfunded status of the plan and the evaluation of the plan's performance and long-term obligations. In addition, we made pension plan contributions during 2017 of approximately $310 million, including $200 million of discretionary contributions to the U.S. pension plan.. We depend on key personnel, the loss of whom could harm our business.    The loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could harm our business. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. Turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. In addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization, or who join our organization as a result of an acquisition, in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business.. Due to a high concentration of workers represented by unions or trade councils in Canada, Europe, and the U.S., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages or other employee-related issues.    As of December 31, 2017, approximately 55%, 40%, and 28% of our Canadian, European and U.S. workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions. Stringent labor laws in certain of our key markets expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in those markets. A prolonged labor strike, work stoppage or other employee-related issue, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. For example, in the first quarter of 2017, our Toronto brewery unionized employees commenced a labor strike initiated from on-going negotiations of the collective bargaining agreement.  This labor strike resulted in slower than expected production at the Toronto brewery in the first quarter of 2017.  From time to time, our collective bargaining agreements come due for renegotiation. Currently, we are in collective bargaining with our Montreal brewery, distribution and sales unions and, if we are unable to timely complete negotiations, affected employees may strike, which could have an adverse effect on our Canadian business and financial results.. Because of our reliance on third-party service providers and internal and outsourced systems for our information technology and certain other administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business.    We rely extensively on information services providers worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware and software configuration. Additionally, we rely on internal networks and information systems and other technology, including the internet and third-party hosted services, to support a variety of business processes and activities, including procurement and supply chain, manufacturing, distribution, invoicing and collection of payments. We use information systems for certain human resource activities and to process our employee benefits, as well as to process financial information for internal and external reporting purposes and to comply with various reporting, legal and tax requirements. As information systems are critical to many of our operating activities, our business may be impacted by system shutdowns, service disruptions or security breaches. Additionally, if one of our service providers were to fail and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our outsourced functions.. A breach of our information systems could cause material financial or reputational harm. Our internal and outsourced systems may also be the target of cyber-attacks or other breaches to our security, which, if successful, could expose us to the loss of key business, employee, customer or vendor information and disruption of our operations.  If our information systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our remediation plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results and we may lose revenue and profits as a result of our inability to timely prepare, distribute, invoice and collect payments from our customers. Misuse, leakage or falsification of information could result in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations, or damage our reputation and credibility. In addition, we may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight or consumers may avoid our brands due to negative publicity. We could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. 29. Table of Contents. If the Pentland Trust and the Coors Trust do not agree on a matter submitted to our stockholders or if a super-majority of our board of directors do not agree on certain actions, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other stockholders or a majority of our board of directors.    Pentland Securities (1981) Inc. (the \"Pentland Trust\") (a company controlled by the Molson family and related parties) and the Adolph Coors, Jr. Trust (the \"Coors Trust\"), which together control more than 90% of our Class A common stock and Class A exchangeable shares, have a voting trust agreement through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our Class A common stock and the Class A exchangeable shares that they own. If these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees are required to vote all of the Class A common stock and Class A exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trust against the matter. There is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreement to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. Therefore, if either the Pentland Trust or the Coors Trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a proposal that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to implement the proposal even if our board of directors, management or other stockholders believe the proposal is beneficial to us. Similarly, our bylaws require the authorization of a super-majority (two-thirds) of the board of directors to take certain transformational actions. Thus, it is possible that the Company will not be authorized to take action even if it is supported by a simple majority of the board of directors.. The interests of the controlling stockholders may differ from those of other stockholders and could prevent the Company from making certain decisions or taking certain actions that would be in the best interest of the other stockholders.    Our Class B common stock has fewer voting rights than our Class A common stock and holders of our Class A common stock have the ability to effectively control or have a significant influence over certain company actions requiring stockholder approval, which could have a material adverse effect on Class B stockholders. See Part II-Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 8, \"Stockholders' Equity\" of the Notes for additional information regarding voting rights of Class A and Class B stockholders.. Risks Specific to the United States Segment. Our U.S. business is highly dependent on independent distributors to sell our products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell our products.    We sell nearly all of our products, including all of our imported products, in the U.S. to independent distributors for resale to retail outlets. These independent distributors are entitled to exclusive territories and protected from termination by state statutes and regulations. Consequently, if we are not allowed, or are unable under acceptable terms or at all, to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, our business, financial position and results of operation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. Changes in the social acceptability of alcohol and the political view of the alcohol industry may harm the U.S. business.    The alcoholic beverage industry is regularly the subject of anti-alcohol activist activity related to the health concerns from the misuse of alcohol and concerns regarding underage drinking and exposure to alcohol advertisements. Negative publicity regarding beer and changes in consumer perceptions in relation to beer and other alcoholic beverages, could adversely affect the sale and consumption of our products which could, in turn, adversely affect our business and financial conditions. Additionally, the concerns around alcohol could result in advertising, selling and other restrictions imposed by regulators. Moreover, it could result in increased taxes associated with alcohol sales, which also could negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition if consumers and customers change their purchasing patterns.. Risks Specific to the Canada Segment. We may experience adverse effects on our Canada business and financial results due to declines in the overall Canadian beer industry, continued price discounting, increased cost of goods sold and higher taxes.    If the Canadian beer market continues to decline, the impact to our financial results could be exacerbated due to our significant share of the overall market. Additionally, continuation or acceleration of price discounting, in Ontario, Québec, Alberta or other provinces, as well as increases in our cost of goods sold, could adversely impact our business. Further, changes in the Canadian tax legislation, such as the potential for an increase in beer excise taxes, could decrease our net sales. Although the ultimate impact is currently unknown, the legalization of cannabis in Canada may result in a shift of discretionary income away from our products or a change in consumer preferences away from beer or our other products. Moreover, the future success and earnings growth of the Canada business depends, in part, on our ability to efficiently conduct our operations. Failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through our ongoing initiatives could adversely affect our profitability.. If we are required to move away from the industry standard returnable bottle we use today, we may incur unexpected losses.    Along with other brewers in Canada, we currently use an industry standard returnable bottle which represents approximately 31% of total volume sales (excluding imports) in Canada. Changes to the Industry Standard Bottle Agreement could impact our use of the industry standard returnable bottle. If we cease to use the industry standard returnable. 30. Table of Contents. bottle, our current bottle inventory and a portion of our bottle packaging equipment could become obsolete and could result in a material write-off of these assets.. Risks Specific to the Europe Segment. The vote in the U.K. to leave the European Union could adversely affect us.  Approximately 11% of our consolidated net sales in 2017 came from the U.K., which is our largest market in Europe. In a referendum held on June 23, 2016, a majority of voters in the U.K. voted in favor of the U.K. leaving the European Union. The U.K. vote to leave the European Union triggered a decline in the GBP in comparison to USD and EUR. Weakening of economic conditions or economic uncertainties tend to harm the beer business, and if such conditions emerge in the U.K. or in the rest of Europe, it may have a material adverse effect on our Europe segment. In addition, any significant weakening of the GBP to the USD will have an adverse impact on our European revenues as reported in USD due to the importance of U.K. sales. The U.K. is expected to leave the EU on March 29, 2019. Because the terms of the exit are still unknown, we may face regulatory uncertainty and may need to quickly adapt to regulatory changes and market volatility.. Economic trends and intense competition in European markets could unfavorably affect our profitability.    Our European businesses have been, and, in the future may be, adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and general economic and political conditions, as well as a weakening of their respective currencies versus the U.S. dollar. Additionally, we face intense competition in certain of our European markets, particularly with respect to pricing, which could lead to reduced sales or profitability. In particular, the on-going focus by large competitors in Europe to drive increased market share through aggressive pricing strategies could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. In addition, in recent years, beer volume sales in Europe have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise) as well as from premium or core brands to value brands, for the industry in general. Margins on sales of value brands and sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation or acceleration of these trends would further adversely affect our profitability.. Risks Specific to the International Segment. An inability to expand our operations in emerging markets could adversely affect our growth prospects.    Our ability to further grow our International segment in emerging markets depends on our ability: to react to social, economic, and political conditions in those markets; to create effective product distribution networks and consumer brand awareness in new markets; and, in many cases, to find appropriate local partners. Due to product price, local regulatory changes, local competition from competitors that are larger and have more resources than we do, and cultural differences, or absence of effective routes to market, there is no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular emerging market. If we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging markets, our growth prospects could be adversely affected.. Risks Specific to Our Discontinued Operations. Indemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the Cervejarias Kaiser Brasil S.A. (\"Kaiser\") business in Brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges.    In 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in Kaiser to FEMSA Cerveza S.A. de C.V. (\"FEMSA\"). The terms of the sale agreement require us to indemnify FEMSA for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. The ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control. These indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, however, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items as well as due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future."
