[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business prospects are subject to various risks and uncertainties that impact our business. You should carefully consider the following discussion of risks, and the other information provided in this annual report on Form 10-K. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us; however, they do represent all material risks currently known to us. Additional risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impact our business.. OUR BUSINESS IS PARTICULARLY SENSITIVE TO WEAK DISCRETIONARY CONSUMER SPENDING. Consumer demand for entertainment and other amenities at hotel-casino properties and casino properties, such as ours, are particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary spending on leisure activities. In particular, we market to and rely upon the patronage of customers from the Reno and Denver metropolitan areas, as well as leisure traveler and conventioneer guests. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences in these, and other geographic markets, brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, the impact of high energy and food costs, the increased cost of travel, the potential for bank failures, decreased disposable consumer income and wealth, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism could further reduce customer demand for the amenities that we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and negatively impacting our results of operations and financial condition.. For example, following the recession that began in 2007, we experienced one of the toughest economic periods in Nevada history. The housing crisis and economic slowdown in the United States resulted in a significant decline in the amount of tourism and spending in Reno. While the economy has improved significantly since the end of the recent economic recession, our business continues to be impacted from changes in consumer spending habits due to the recession. If customers spend less per visit or customers prefer non-gaming amenities of our competitors, and we are unable to increase total visitation, our business may be adversely affected. Since our business model relies on consumer expenditures on entertainment, luxury and other discretionary items, a slowing or stoppage of the economic recovery or a return to an economic downturn will further adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.. We are entirely dependent on TWO resorts for all of our cash flow, which subjects us to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties. We are currently entirely dependent upon our Atlantis Casino Resort and our Monarch Casino Black Hawk for all of our operating cash flow. As a result, we are subject to a greater degree of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties or greater geographic diversification. The risks to which we have a greater degree of exposure include the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in local economic and competitive conditions;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and regulations, and the way in which those laws and regulations are applied;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tnatural and other disasters, including the outbreak of infectious diseases;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tan increase in the cost of maintaining our properties;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta decline in the number of visitors to Reno or Black Hawk; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ta decrease in gaming and non-casino activities at our resorts.. Any of the factors outlined above could negatively affect our results of operations and our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments or maintain our covenants with respect to our debt.. 17. Table of Contents. CERTAIN OF OUR STOCKHOLDERS OWN LARGE INTERESTS IN OUR CAPITAL STOCK AND MAY SIGNIFICANTLY INFLUENCE OUR AFFAIRS. John Farahi and Bob Farahi, our officers and directors, together with their brother Ben Farahi, beneficially own in the aggregate approximately 39% of our outstanding shares of common stock, inclusive of options held by them which are exercisable within 60 days. As such, members of the Farahi family, if voting together, have the ability to significantly influence our affairs, including the election of members of the board of directors and, except as otherwise provided by law, approving or disapproving other matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including a merger, consolidation, or sale of assets.. TO SERVICE OUR INDEBTEDNESS, WE WILL REQUIRE A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF CASH. OUR ABILITY TO GENERATE CASH DEPENDS ON MANY FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund future capital expenditures and expansion efforts will depend upon our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. It is possible that our business will generate insufficient cash flows from operations, or that future borrowings will not be available to us under our credit facility, in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness as it matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. We may have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets or obtaining additional equity or debt financing or joint venture partners. These financing strategies may not be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all.. COVENANT RESTRICTIONS UNDER OUR AMENDED CREDIT FACILITY MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE OUR BUSINESS AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The agreement governing our Amended Credit Facility contains covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional debt, make distributions, make investments, grant liens on our property to secure debt, enter into transactions with affiliates and effect mergers or acquisitions, as well as covenants that relate to our Monarch Black Hawk Expansion. Although the covenants in our Amended Credit Facility are subject to various exceptions, we cannot assure you that these covenants will not adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other activities that may be in our best interest. In addition, our long-term debt requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests, which may require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. A breach of any of the covenants in the agreement governing our Amended Credit Facility could result in a default under such agreement. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions, and other events beyond our control, including difficulties or delay in the completion of our Monarch Black Hawk Expansion. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these covenants. If an event of default under the agreement governing our Amended Credit Facility occurs, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. In addition, our Amended Credit Facility is secured by first priority security interests in substantially all of our assets. If we are unable to pay all amounts declared due and payable in the event of a default, the lenders could foreclose on these assets.. OUR VARIABLE RATE INDEBTEDNESS SUBJECTS US TO INTEREST RATE RISK, WHICH COULD CAUSE OUR DEBT SERVICE OBLIGATIONS TO INCREASE SIGNIFICANTLY. An increase in market interest rates would increase our interest expense arising on our indebtedness. The interest rate under our Amended Credit Facility is a base rate plus a margin ranging from 0.00% to 1.50%, the Prime Rate or LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 1.00% to 2.50%. As a result, we are exposed to interest rate risk. Interest rates, including LIBOR, have recently increased and are expected to continue to increase in future periods. If interest rates continue to increase, our debt service obligations under the Amended Credit Facility will increase even when the amount borrowed remains the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease.. 18. Table of Contents. INTENSE COMPETITION EXISTS IN THE GAMING INDUSTRY, AND WE EXPECT COMPETITION TO CONTINUE TO INTENSIFY. The gaming industry is highly competitive for both customers and employees, including those at the management level. We compete with numerous casinos and hotel-casinos of varying quality and size in our markets. We also compete with other non-gaming resorts and vacation destinations, and with various other casino and other entertainment businesses, and could compete with any new forms of gaming, including internet gaming, that has been or may be legalized in the future. The casino entertainment business is characterized by competitors that vary considerably in their size, quality of facilities, number of operations, brand identities, marketing and growth strategies, financial strength and capabilities, level of amenities, management talent and geographic diversity. We compete directly with other casino facilities operating in the immediate and surrounding market areas in which we operate. In some markets, we face competition from nearby markets in addition to direct competition within our market areas.. As competitive pressures increase, other casinos in our markets may intensify their marketing efforts. Increased competitive pressures in the local markets could adversely impact our ability to continue to attract local residents to the Atlantis and the Monarch Casino Black Hawk or require us to use more expensive, and therefore, less profitable promotions to compete more efficiently. Competitive pressures from internet gaming could also affect our future operations.. In recent years, with fewer new markets opening for development, competition in existing markets has intensified. We have invested in expanding the Atlantis and renovating Monarch Casino Black Hawk, and are in the process of expanding the Monarch Casino Black Hawk. Our competitors have also invested in expanding their existing facilities and developing new facilities. This expansion of existing casino entertainment properties, the increase in the number of properties and the aggressive marketing strategies of many of our competitors have increased competition in our markets, and this intense competition can be expected to continue. In addition, competition may intensify if our competitors commit additional resources to aggressive pricing and promotional activities in order to attract customers.. If our competitors operate more successfully than we do, if they attract customers away from us as a result of aggressive pricing and promotion, if they are more successful than us in attracting and retaining employees, if their properties are enhanced or expanded, if they operate in jurisdictions that give them operating advantages due to differences or changes in gaming regulations or taxes, or if additional hotels and casinos are established in and around our markets, we may lose market share or the ability to attract or retain employees. In particular, the expansion of casino gaming in or near any geographic area from which we attract or expect to attract a significant number of our customers could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We also believe that the legalization of additional casino gaming in or near any major metropolitan area in the Atlantis' or Monarch Casino Black Hawk's key marketing areas could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, there have been proposals for the development of Native American, racetrack and video lottery terminal casinos throughout the state of Colorado over the years, although none of the proposals has been adopted by the state's electorate or legislature. Should any form of additional gaming be authorized in the Denver metropolitan area, Monarch Casino Black Hawk could be adversely affected.. In addition, Native American gaming facilities in some instances operate under less stringent regulatory requirements than those imposed on our properties, which could provide them a competitive advantage in our markets. Moreover, we face competition from internet and other account wagering gaming services, which would allow their guests to wager on a wide variety of sporting events and play Las Vegas-style casino games from home, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. The legalization of internet poker and other forms of internet gaming could create further competition for our operations.. 19. Table of Contents. WE FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH GROWTH. We intend to grow our operations through acquisitions, development and organic growth. However, this growth strategy could divert management's attention, disrupt our ongoing operations, result in inconsistencies in standards, controls and procedures and could also cause us to incur substantial costs, including legal, professional and consulting fees. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify or acquire suitable companies or operations, develop or profitably manage our additional operations or successfully integrate such acquisitions or operations into our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other difficulties. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we will receive the necessary licenses or approvals for currently contemplated or future expansion and development projects.. Management of new properties, especially in new geographic areas, may require that we increase our management resources. Our ability to achieve our objectives in connection with our acquisition may be highly dependent on, among other things, our ability to retain or train capable executives. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage the combined operations effectively or realize any of the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. We also cannot assure you that the acquired business will generate returns consistent with our expectations. These risks may result in an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition or result in costs that outweigh the financial benefit of such opportunities. Furthermore, investments in our growth strategy may result in us incurring substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses or consummating potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities to fund the required capital investment. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, otherwise restrict our operations and adversely impact our financial condition.. OUR EXPANSION AND RENOVATION PROJECTS MAY FACE SIGNIFICANT RISKS INHERENT IN CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS. Our Monarch Casino Black Hawk Expansion and any other development projects we may undertake will be subject to the many risks inherent in the expansion or renovation of an existing enterprise or construction of a new enterprise, including unanticipated design, construction, regulatory, environmental and operating problems and lack of demand for our projects. Our current and future projects could also experience:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdelays and significant cost increases;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tshortages of materials;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tshortages of skilled labor or work stoppages;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpoor performance or nonperformance by any third parties on whom we place reliance;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tunforeseen construction scheduling, engineering, environmental, permitting, construction or geological problems; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tweather interference, floods, fires or other casualty losses.. The completion dates of any of our projects could differ significantly from expectations for construction-related or other reasons.. In addition, actual costs and construction periods for any of our projects can differ significantly from initial expectations. Our initial project costs and construction periods are based upon budgets, conceptual design documents and construction schedule estimates prepared at inception of the project in consultation with architects and contractors. Many of these costs can increase over time as the project is built to completion.. The cost of any project may vary significantly from initial budget expectations and we may have a limited amount of capital resources to fund cost overruns. If we cannot finance cost overruns on a timely basis, the completion of one or more projects may be delayed until adequate funding is available. We can provide no assurance that any project will be completed on time, if at all, or within established budgets, or that any project will result in increased earnings to us. Significant delays, cost overruns, or failures of our projects to achieve market acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 20. Table of Contents. OUR CAPITAL EXPENDITURES MAY NOT RESULT IN THE EXPECTED IMPROVEMENTS IN OUR BUSINESS. We have expended a significant amount of capital on our multi-phased Monarch Casino Black Hawk Expansion. In addition, we continuously invest in the upgrade and maintenance of our facilities to present a fresh, high quality product to our guests. Our ability to realize the expected returns on these capital investments depends on a number of factors, including, general economic conditions, changes to construction plans and specifications, delays in obtaining or inability to obtain necessary permits, licenses and approvals, disputes with contractors, disruptions to our business caused by construction and other unanticipated circumstances or cost increases.. While we believe that the overall budgets for our planned capital expenditures are reasonable, these costs are estimates and the actual costs may be higher than expected. In addition, we cannot assure you that these investments will be sufficient or that we will realize our expected returns on our capital investments, or any returns at all. If we fail to realize our expected returns on capital investments, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO OBTAIN THE NECESSARY GOVERNMENT APPROVALS FOR OUR EXPANSION AND RENOVATION PROJECTS ON A TIMELY BASIS, OR AT ALL. We have not yet obtained certain permits, licenses and approvals necessary for some of our anticipated projects. The scope of the approvals required for expansion or renovation projects can be extensive and may include gaming approvals, state and local land-use permits and building and zoning permits. Unexpected changes or concessions required by local, state or federal regulatory authorities could involve significant additional costs and delay the scheduled openings of the facilities. We may not obtain the necessary permits, licenses and approvals within the anticipated time frames, or at all.. OUR EXPANSION AND RENOVATION ACTIVITIES MAY DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS. Although we will plan our expansion and renovation projects to minimize disruption of our existing business operations, these projects require, from time to time, all or portions of affected existing operations to be closed or disrupted. Any significant disruption in operations of a property could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations.. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN FINANCING FOR OUR EXPANSION AND RENOVATION PROJECTS AND OTHER CAPITAL EXPENDITURES, SUCH PROJECTS WILL BE JEOPARDIZED. We intend to finance our future expansion and renovation projects, as well as our other capital expenditures, primarily with cash flow from operations, borrowings under our Amended Credit Facility, and/or additional debt financings. If we are unable to finance our future expansion and renovation projects, or our other capital expenditures, we will have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing, delaying or abandoning planned expansion and renovation projects as well as other capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, considering obtaining equity financing or joint venture partners, or modifying our Amended Credit Facility. These sources of funds may not be sufficient to finance our expansion, development, investment and renovation projects, and other financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, our existing indebtedness contains certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness.. RISING OPERATING COSTS AT OUR GAMING PROPERTIES COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS. The operating expenses associated with our properties could increase due to, among other reasons, the following factors:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in federal, state or local tax or regulations, including state gaming regulations or gaming taxes, could impose additional restrictions or increase our operating costs;. 21. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\taggressive marketing and promotional campaigns by our competitors for an extended period of time could force us to increase our expenditures for marketing and promotional campaigns in order to maintain our existing customer base or attract new customers;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreases in costs of labor.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texpenditures for repairs, maintenance, and to replace equipment necessary to operate our business;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour reliance on slot play revenues and any additional costs imposed on us from vendors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tavailability and cost of the products and services we provide our customers, including food, beverages, retail items, entertainment, hotel rooms and spa;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tavailability and costs associated with insurance and;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour properties use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy, and energy price increases may adversely affect our cost structure.. If our operating expenses increase without any offsetting increase in our revenues, our results of operations would suffer.. FAILURE OF THE RENO-SPARKS CONVENTION CENTER TO BOOK AND ATTRACT CONVENTION BUSINESS COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS AT THE ATLANTIS. The Atlantis is the closest hotel-casino to the Reno-Sparks Convention Center and the enclosed pedestrian sky bridge that connects the Atlantis directly with the Reno-Sparks Convention Center, has afforded us a distinct competitive advantage in attracting its conventioneers, who typically pay higher average room rates than non-conventioneers. However, if the Reno-Sparks Convention Center does not succeed in booking the anticipated level of conventions, we will not, in turn, benefit from the patronage of such conventioneers. As a result, our results of operations could be adversely impacted.. FAILURE TO MAINTAIN THE INTEGRITY OF OUR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS, PROTECT OUR INTERNAL AND CUSTOMER INFORMATION FROM CYBERSECURITY OR OTHER RISKS, OR COMPLY WITH APPLICABLE PRIVACY AND DATA SECURITY REGULATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT US. We rely extensively on our computer systems to process customer transactions, manage customer data, manage employee data and communicate with third-party vendors and other third parties, and we may also access the internet to use our computer systems. Our operations require that we collect and store customer data, including credit card numbers and other personal information, for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. We also collect and store personal information about our employees. Threats to information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents or attacks continue to grow. Breaches of our security measures or information technology systems or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive personal information or confidential data about us, or our customers, or our employees including the potential loss or disclosure of such information as a result of hacking or other cyber-attack, computer virus, fraudulent use by customers, employees or employees of third party vendors, trickery or other forms of deception or unauthorized use, or due to system failure, could expose us, our customers, our employees or other individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our casino or brand names and reputations or otherwise harm our business. We rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of customer information, such as payment card, employee information and other confidential or proprietary information. Our data security measures are reviewed and evaluated regularly, however they might not protect us against increasingly sophisticated and aggressive threats. The cost and operational consequences of implementing further data security measures could be significant.. 22. Table of Contents. Additionally, the collection of customer and employee personal information imposes various privacy compliance related obligations on our business and increases the risks associated with a breach or failure of the integrity of our information technology systems. The collection and use of personal information is governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the United States and other jurisdictions around the world. Privacy regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our customers. In addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third party service providers engaged by us) may also result in damage of reputation, result in vulnerabilities that could be exploited to breach our systems and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of personal information.. OUR GAMING OPERATIONS RELY HEAVILY ON TECHNOLOGY SERVICES AND AN UNINTERRUPTED SUPPLY OF ELECTRICAL POWER.. Any unscheduled disruption in our technology services or interruption in the supply of electrical power could result in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues due to a shutdown of our gaming operations. Such interruptions may occur as a result of, for example, a failure of our information technology or related systems, catastrophic events or rolling blackouts. Our systems are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and similar events.. OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS AND LIMITATIONS IMPOSED BY GAMING REGULATORY AUTHORITIES THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT US. The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities are subject to extensive state and local regulation. The State of Nevada, the State of Colorado and the applicable local authorities require various licenses, registrations, permits and approvals to be held by us and our subsidiaries. The Nevada Gaming Commission and the Colorado Commission may, among other things, limit, condition, suspend, revoke or decline to renew a license or approval to own the stock of our subsidiaries for any cause deemed reasonable by such licensing authority. If we violate gaming laws or regulations, substantial fines could be levied against us, our subsidiaries and the persons involved, and we could be forced to forfeit a portion of our assets. The suspension, revocation or non-renewal of any of our licenses or the levy on us of substantial fines or forfeiture of assets would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. To date, we have obtained all governmental licenses, findings of suitability, registrations, permits and approvals necessary for the operation of our current gaming activities. However, gaming licenses and related approvals are deemed to be privileges under Nevada and Colorado law. We cannot assure you that our existing licenses, permits and approvals will be maintained or extended.. OUR INSURANCE COVERAGE MAY NOT BE ADEQUATE TO COVER ALL POSSIBLE LOSSES THAT OUR PROPERTIES COULD SUFFER. IN ADDITION, OUR INSURANCE COSTS MAY INCREASE AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN THE SAME INSURANCE COVERAGE IN THE FUTURE. Although we have general property insurance covering damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire and natural disasters), each such policy has certain exclusions. In addition, our property insurance is in an amount that may be less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the applicable complex if there was a total loss. Our level of insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. In addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war, loss of income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution, might not be covered at all under our policies. Therefore, certain acts, events or conditions could expose us to heavy, uninsured losses.. 23. Table of Contents. In addition, although we currently have insurance coverage for occurrences of terrorist acts and for certain losses that could result from these acts, our terrorism coverage is subject to the same risks and deficiencies as those described above for our general property coverage. The lack of sufficient insurance for these types of acts could expose us to heavy losses in the event that any damages occur, directly or indirectly, as a result of terrorist attacks or otherwise, which could have a significant negative impact on our operations.. In addition to the damage caused to our property by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism), we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties injured or harmed. While we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in such event.. We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to reduce our policy limits or agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. Among other factors, it is possible that homeland security concerns, other catastrophic events or any change in government legislation governing insurance coverage for acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect available insurance coverage and result in increased premiums on available coverage (which may cause us to elect to reduce our policy limits) and additional exclusions from coverage. Among other potential future adverse changes, in the future we may elect not to, or may not be able to, obtain any coverage for losses due to acts of terrorism.. Our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to maintain a certain minimum level of insurance. Failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under these debt instruments or material agreements, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.. IF GAMING TAXES AND FEES INCREASE, OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. The federal government has, from time to time, considered a federal tax on casino revenues and may consider such a tax in the future. State and local authorities raise a significant amount of revenue through taxes and fees on gaming activities. From time to time, legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. In addition, worsening economic conditions could intensify the efforts of state and local governments to raise revenues through increases in gaming taxes or other fees. If the state and/or local governments where our properties are located were to increase gaming taxes and fees, our results of operations could be adversely affected.. IF WE LOSE OUR KEY PERSONNEL, OUR BUSINESS COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We depend on the continued performances of John Farahi and Bob Farahi, our Chief Executive Officer and our President, respectively, and their management team. If we lose the services of the Farahi brothers, or other senior Atlantis management personnel, and cannot replace such persons in a timely manner, our business could be materially adversely affected.. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ADEQUATELY STAFF OUR OPERATIONS. From time to time, the competition for employees increases. During such times, new and growing business in the area may create job opportunities that at times have exceeded the area's supply of qualified employees. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, or if competition for employees results in materially increased wages, our ability to maintain and grow our business could be adversely impacted.. 24. Table of Contents. WE OWN FACILITIES THAT ARE LOCATED IN AREAS THAT EXPERIENCE EXTREME WEATHER CONDITIONS. Extreme weather or weather-related conditions, including snowstorms and forest or range fires may interrupt our operations, damage our properties and reduce the number of customers who visit our facilities in the affected areas. If there is a prolonged disruption at either our Atlantis or Monarch Casino Black Hawk properties due to extreme weather or weather-related conditions, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. For example, extreme snow in and around the Black Hawk area often leads to closure of US 6 and I-70, the roads between Denver and Black Hawk. An excessive number of snow days in a fiscal period has, in the past, and would, in the future, have a  negative effect on our guest visitations and adversely affect our revenue, results of operation and financial results for the reporting period.. While we maintain insurance coverage that may cover certain of the costs and loss of revenue that we incur as a result of some extreme weather or weather-related conditions, our coverage is subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fully collect, if at all, on any claims resulting from extreme weather or weather-related conditions. If any of our properties are damaged or if their operations are disrupted as a result of extreme weather or weather-related conditions in the future, or if extreme weather or weather-related conditions adversely impacts general economic or other conditions in the areas in which our properties are located or from which they draw their patrons, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. NATURAL OR MAN-MADE DISASTERS, AN OUTBREAK OF HIGHLY INFECTIOUS DISEASE, TERRORIST ACTIVITY, GUN VIOLENCE OR WAR MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOWS. Natural disasters, man-made disasters and outbreaks of highly infectious diseases may result in decreases in travel to and from, and economic activity in, areas in which we operate, and may adversely affect the number of visitors to our properties. In addition, catastrophic events, such as terrorist and war activities in the United States and elsewhere, have had a negative effect on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming and tourism. Gun violence, involving a mass shooting, occurred at a Las Vegas casino in 2017, which negatively impacted businesses in the area.  If any of the foregoing events occur in the future, they could disrupt our operations, including our ability to staff our business adequately, damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Although we have insurance coverage with respect to some of these disasters or events, we cannot assure you that any such coverage will be sufficient to indemnify us fully against all direct and indirect costs, including any loss of business that could result from substantial damage to, or partial or complete destruction of, any of our properties.. WE ARE OR MAY BECOME INVOLVED IN LEGAL PROCEEDINGS THAT, IF ADVERSELY ADJUDICATED OR SETTLED, COULD IMPACT OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. From time to time, we are named in lawsuits or other legal proceedings relating to our business. In particular, the nature of our business subjects us to the risk of lawsuits filed by customers, past and present employees, competitors, business partners and others in the ordinary course of business. As with all legal proceedings, no assurances can be given as to the outcome of these matters. Moreover, legal proceedings can be expensive and time consuming, and we may not be successful in defending or prosecuting these lawsuits, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. WE ARE SUBJECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND POTENTIAL EXPOSURE TO ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern our operations, including emissions and discharges into the environment, and the handling and disposal of hazardous and nonhazardous substances and wastes. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in costs for corrective action, penalties or the imposition of other liabilities or restrictions. As we acquire properties, we may not know the full level of exposure that we may have undertaken despite appropriate due diligence.. 25. Table of Contents. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and clean-up responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of property may be liable for the costs of remediating contaminated soil or groundwater on or from its property, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the contamination, as well as incur liability to third parties impacted by such contamination. The presence of contamination, or failure to remediate it properly, may adversely affect our ability to use, sell or rent property. The Monarch Casino Black Hawk is located within an area of historic mining activity and near superfund sites that have been the subject of state and federal clean-up actions. Although the Monarch Casino Black Hawk is not part of a superfund site, the fact that such sites are in the vicinity and that mining activities occurred throughout the area, it is possible that as a result of our ownership and operation of Monarch Casino Black Hawk (on which mining may have occurred in the past), we may incur costs related to this matter in the future. Furthermore, there may have been soil or groundwater contamination at certain of our properties resulting from current or former operations. None of these matters or other matters arising under environmental laws has had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations; however, we cannot assure you that such matters will not have such an effect in the future.. ENERGY PRICE INCREASES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR COST OF OPERATIONS AND OUR REVENUES. Our facilities use significant amounts of electricity, natural gas and other forms of energy. While no shortages of energy or fuel have been experienced to date, increases in energy and fuel prices in the United States may negatively affect our operating results. The extent of the impact is subject to the magnitude and duration of the energy and fuel price increases, but this impact could be material. In addition, energy and gasoline price increases in cities that constitute a significant source of customers for our properties could result in a decline in disposable income of potential customers and a corresponding decrease in visitation and spending at our properties, which would negatively impact revenues. Furthermore, increases in fuel prices, and resulting increases in transportation costs, could discourage potential customers from travelling to our properties, which would, in turn, adversely affect our business and results of operations.. CHANGES IN REGULATIONS ON LAND USE REQUIREMENTS COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. Changes in regulations on land use requirements with regard to development of new hotel casinos in the proximity of the Atlantis and the Monarch Casino Black Hawk could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. A relaxation in such regulations could make it easier for competitors to enter our markets. A tightening of such regulations could adversely impact our future expansion opportunities.. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY HIGH-END PLAYERS' WINNINGS OR THEIR FAILURE TO REPAY FUNDS EXTENDED ON CREDIT. Although not the major focus of our marketing efforts, we have selectively targeted high-end players. Should one or more of these high-end players win large sums in our casino, or should a material amount of credit extended to such players not be repaid, our results of operations could be adversely impacted.. OUR COMMON STOCK PRICE MAY FLUCTUATE SUBSTANTIALLY, AND A STOCKHOLDER'S INVESTMENT COULD DECLINE IN VALUE. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tannouncements of significant acquisitions or other agreements by us or by our competitors;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour sale of common stock or other securities in the future;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttrading volume of our common stock;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tconditions and trends in the gaming and destination entertainment industries;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tchanges in the estimation of the future size and growth of our markets; and. 26. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tgeneral economic conditions, including, without limitation, changes in the cost of fuel and air travel.. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to companies' operating performance. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholder derivative lawsuits and/or securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources.. WE HAVE THE ABILITY TO ISSUE ADDITIONAL EQUITY SECURITIES, WHICH WOULD LEAD TO DILUTION OF OUR ISSUED AND OUTSTANDING COMMON STOCK. If we issue additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, it would result in dilution of our existing stockholders' equity interests in us. Our board of directors has the authority to issue, without vote or action of stockholders, preferred stock in one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. If we issue convertible preferred stock, a subsequent conversion may dilute the current common stockholders' interest.. If our holders of outstanding options and rights to purchase shares of our common stock exercise their options or rights, and sell the underlying shares of common stock we issue upon such exercise, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution and the market price of our shares of common stock could decline. Further, the perception that such securities might be exercised could adversely affect the trading price of our shares of common stock. In addition, during the time that such securities are outstanding, they may adversely affect the terms on which we could obtain additional capital.. WE DO NOT INTEND TO PAY CASH DIVIDENDS. AS A RESULT, STOCKHOLDERS WILL BENEFIT FROM AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK ONLY IF IT APPRECIATES IN VALUE. We have never paid a cash dividend on our common stock, and we do not plan to pay any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance our operations and further expansion and growth of our business, including acquisitions. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. We cannot guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares.. UNCERTAINTIES IN THE INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION OF THE 2017 TAX CUTS AND JOBS ACT COULD MATERIALLY AFFECT OUR TAX OBLIGATIONS AND EFFECTIVE TAX RATE.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which significantly affected U.S. tax law by, among other things, reducing the U.S. corporate income tax rate, limiting interest deductions, permitting immediate expensing of certain capital expenditures, revising the rules governing net operating losses and eliminating the deductibility of certain fringe benefits. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act requires complex computations not previously required by U.S. tax law. As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. Further, compliance with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and the accounting for such provisions require preparation and analysis of information not previously required or regularly produced. In addition, the U.S. Department of Treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations in future periods. Accordingly, while we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in our financial statements, further regulatory or GAAP accounting guidance for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, our further analysis on the application of the law, and refinement of our initial estimates and calculations could materially change our current provisional estimates. Ultimately, interpretations and regulations related to this new law could affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate.. 27. Table of Contents. THE CONCENTRATION AND EVOLUTION OF THE SLOT MACHINE MANUFACTURING INDUSTRY COULD IMPOSE ADDITIONAL COSTS ON OUR OPERATIONS. A majority of our gaming revenue is attributable to slot machines operated at our gaming facilities. It is important, for competitive reasons, that we offer popular and technologically advanced slot machine games to our customers.. In recent years, slot machine manufacturers have frequently refused to sell slot machines featuring the most popular games, instead requiring participation lease arrangements. Participation slot machine leasing arrangements typically often require the payment of a fixed daily rental or a percentage payment of coin-in or net win. Generally, a participation lease is substantially more expensive over the long term than the cost to purchase a new machine.. For competitive reasons, we may be forced to purchase new slot machines or enter into participation lease arrangements that are more expensive than our current costs associated with the continued operation of our existing slot machines. If the newer slot machines do not result in sufficient incremental revenues to offset the increased investment and participation lease costs, it could hurt our profitability."                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
