[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. Various risks and uncertainties could affect our business. Any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings with the SEC could have a material impact on our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations.. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry. We face intense competition, and if we are unable to continue to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and we face a variety of competitors across our businesses, some of which have larger and more established customer bases and substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Money transfer, bill payment and money order services compete in a concentrated industry, with a small number of large competitors and a large number of small, niche competitors. Our money transfer products compete with a variety of financial and non-financial companies, including banks, card associations, web-based services, payment processors, informal remittance systems, consumer money transfer companies and others. The services are differentiated by features and functionalities, including brand recognition, customer service, reliability, distribution network and options, price, speed and convenience. Distribution channels such as online, account based and mobile solutions continue to evolve and impact the competitive environment for money transfers. The electronic bill payment services within our Global Funds Transfer segment compete in a highly fragmented consumer-to-business payment industry. Our official check business competes primarily with financial institutions that have developed internal processing capabilities or services similar to ours and do not outsource official check services. Financial institutions could also offer competing official check outsourcing services to our existing and prospective official check customers.. Our future growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in money transfer, bill payment, money order and official check services. For example, if our products and services do not offer competitive features and functionalities, we may lose customers to our competitors, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we fail to price our services appropriately relative to our competitors, consumers may not use our services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, transaction volume where we face intense competition could be adversely affected by increasing pricing pressures between our money transfer services and those of some of our competitors, which could reduce margins and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have historically implemented and will likely continue to implement price adjustments from time to time in response to competition and other factors. If we reduce prices in order to more effectively compete, such reductions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the short term and may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the long term if transaction volumes do not increase sufficiently.. 11. Table of Contents. If we lose key agents, our business with key agents is reduced or we are unable to maintain our agent network under terms consistent with those currently in place, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Most of our revenue is earned through our agent network. In addition, our international agents may have subagent relationships in which we are not directly involved. If agents or their subagents decide to leave our network, our revenue and profits could be adversely affected. Agent loss may occur for a number of reasons, including competition from other money transfer providers, an agent's dissatisfaction with its relationship with us or the revenue earned from the relationship, or an agent's unwillingness or inability to comply with our standards or legal requirements, including those related to compliance with anti-money laundering regulations, anti-fraud measures or agent monitoring. Agents may also generate fewer transactions or reduce locations for reasons unrelated to our relationship with them, including increased competition in their business, general economic conditions, regulatory costs or other reasons. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our agent network under terms consistent with those already in place. Larger agents may demand additional financial concessions or may not agree to enter into exclusive arrangements, which could increase competitive pressure. The inability to maintain our agent contracts on terms consistent with those already in place, including in respect of exclusivity rights, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A substantial portion of our agent network locations, transaction volume and revenue is attributable to or generated by a limited number of key agents. During 2017 and 2016, our ten largest agents accounted for 34% and 36%, respectively, of our total revenue. Our largest agent, Walmart, accounted for 17% and 18% of our total revenue in 2017 and 2016, respectively. The current term of our contract with Walmart expires on February 1, 2019. If our contracts with our key agents, including Walmart, are not renewed or are terminated, or are renewed but on less favorable terms, or if such agents generate fewer transactions or reduce their locations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, the introduction of competitive products by Walmart or our other key agents, including competing white label products, could reduce our business with those key agents and intensify industry competition, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Consumer fraud could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as identity theft, fraud and paper instrument counterfeiting. As we make more of our services available over the internet and other digital media, we subject ourselves to new types of consumer fraud risk because requirements relating to consumer authentication are more complex with internet services. Certain former agents have also engaged in fraud against consumers, and existing agents could engage in fraud against consumers. We use a variety of tools to protect against fraud; however, these tools may not always be successful. Allegations of fraud may result in fines, settlements, litigation expenses and reputational damage.. The industry is under increasing scrutiny from federal, state and local regulators in the United States and regulatory agencies in many countries in connection with the potential for consumer fraud. If consumer fraud levels involving our services were to rise, it could lead to regulatory intervention and reputational and financial damage. This, in turn, could lead to government enforcement actions and investigations, reduce the use and acceptance of our services or increase our compliance costs and thereby have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. MoneyGram and our agents are subject to numerous U.S. and international laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in material settlements, fines or penalties, and changes in these laws or regulations could result in increased operating costs or reduced demand for our products or services, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations that vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. We are also subject to oversight by various governmental agencies, both in the U.S. and abroad. In light of the current conditions in the global financial markets and economy, lawmakers and regulators in the U.S. in particular have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. New or modified regulations and increased oversight may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry, which could affect our business and operations.. Our business is subject to a variety of regulations aimed at preventing money laundering and terrorism. We are subject to U.S. federal anti-money laundering laws, including the Bank Secrecy Act and the requirements of OFAC, which prohibit us from transmitting money to specified countries or to or from prohibited individuals. Additionally, we are subject to anti-money laundering laws in many other countries in which we operate, particularly in the European Union. We are also subject to financial services regulations, money transfer and payment instrument licensing regulations, consumer protection laws, currency control regulations, escheatment laws, privacy and data protection laws and anti-bribery laws. Many of these laws are constantly evolving, and may be unclear and inconsistent across various jurisdictions, making compliance challenging. Subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose us to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage.. We are considered a Money Services Business in the U.S. under the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001. As such, we are subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering provisions in the U.S. as well as many other jurisdictions. During 2017, there were significant regulatory reviews and actions taken by U.S. and other regulators and law enforcement agencies against banks, Money Services Businesses and other financial institutions related to money laundering, and. 12. Table of Contents. the trend appears to be greater scrutiny by regulators of potential money laundering activity through financial institutions. We are also subject to regulatory oversight and enforcement by the U.S. Department of the Treasury Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (\"FinCEN\"). Any determination that we have violated the anti-money-laundering laws could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The Dodd-Frank Act increases the regulation and oversight of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act addresses, among other things, systemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments, consumer financial protection, interchange fees, derivatives, lending limits, thrift charters and changes among the bank regulatory agencies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires enforcement by various governmental agencies, including the CFPB. Money transmitters such as the Company are subject to direct supervision by the CFPB and are required to provide additional consumer information and disclosures, adopt error resolution standards and adjust refund procedures for international transactions originating in the U.S. in a manner consistent with the Remittance Transfer Rule (a rule issued by the CFPB pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act). In addition, the CFPB may adopt other regulations governing consumer financial services, including regulations defining unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices, and new model disclosures. We could be subject to fines or other penalties if we are found to have violated the Dodd-Frank Act's prohibition against unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices. The CFPB's authority to change regulations adopted in the past by other regulators could increase our compliance costs and litigation exposure. We may also be liable for failure of our agents to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act. The legislation and implementation of regulations associated with the Dodd-Frank Act have increased our costs of compliance and required changes in the way we and our agents conduct business. In addition, we are subject to periodic examination by the CFPB.. We are also subject to regulations imposed by the FCPA in the U.S., the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions. Because of the scope and nature of our global operations, we experience a higher risk associated with the FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws than many other companies. We are subject to recordkeeping and other requirements imposed upon companies related to compliance with these laws. In 2017, there have been significant regulatory reviews and actions taken by the United States and other regulators related to anti-bribery laws, and the trend appears to be greater scrutiny on payments to, and relationships with, foreign entities and individuals.. We are also subject to the European Union's Payment Services Directive (\"PSD\"), which governs the regulatory regime for payment services in the European Union, and similar regulatory or licensing requirements in other jurisdictions. The PSD and other international regulatory or licensing requirements may impose potential liability on us for the conduct of our agents and the commission of third-party fraud utilizing our services. If we fail to comply with the PSD or such other requirements, we could be subject to fines or penalties or revocation of our licenses, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the U.S. and other countries periodically consider initiatives designed to lower costs of international remittances which, if implemented, may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, we are subject to escheatment laws in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. These laws are evolving and are frequently unclear and inconsistent among various jurisdictions, making compliance challenging. We have an ongoing program designed to comply with escheatment laws as they apply to our business. In the United States, we are subject to the laws of various states which from time to time take inconsistent or conflicting positions regarding the requirements to escheat property to a particular state. Certain foreign jurisdictions do not have escheatment provisions which apply to our transactions. In these jurisdictions where there is not a requirement to escheat, and when, by utilizing historical data we determine that the likelihood is remote that the item will be paid out, we record a reduction to our payment service obligation and recognize an equivalent amount as a component of fee and other revenue.. Any violation by us of the laws and regulations set forth above could lead to significant fines or penalties and could limit our ability to conduct business in some jurisdictions. In some cases, we could be liable for the failure of our agents or their subagents to comply with laws, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, the risk of adverse regulatory action against the Company because of actions of its agents or subagents and the cost to monitor our agents and subagents has increased. In addition to these fines and penalties, a failure by us or our agents to comply with applicable laws and regulations also could seriously damage our reputation and result in diminished revenue and profit and increase our operating costs and could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses or registrations, loss of approved status, termination of contracts with banks or retail representatives, administrative enforcement actions and fines, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders and civil and criminal liability. The occurrence of one or more of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In certain cases, regulations may provide administrative discretion regarding enforcement. As a result, regulations may be applied inconsistently across the industry, which could result in additional costs for the Company that may not be required to be incurred by some of its competitors. If the Company were required to maintain a price higher than its competitors to reflect its regulatory costs, this could harm its ability to compete effectively, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in laws, regulations or other industry practices and standards, or interpretations of legal or regulatory requirements, may reduce the market for or value of our products or services or render our products or services less profitable or obsolete. For example, policy makers may impose heightened customer due diligence requirements or other restrictions. 13. Table of Contents. or fees on remittances. Changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely affect our ability to distribute certain of our services and the cost of providing such services. Many of our agents are in the check cashing industry. Any regulatory action that negatively impacts check cashers could also cause this portion of our agent base to decline. If onerous regulatory requirements were imposed on our agents, the requirements could lead to a loss of agents, which, in turn, could lead to a loss of retail business.. Litigation or investigations involving us or our agents could result in material settlements, fines or penalties and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have been, and in the future may be, subject to allegations and complaints that individuals or entities have used our money transfer services for fraud-induced money transfers, as well as certain money laundering activities, which may result in fines, penalties, judgments, settlements and litigation expenses. We also are the subject from time to time of litigation related to our business. The outcome of such allegations, complaints, claims and litigation cannot be predicted.. Regulatory and judicial proceedings and potential adverse developments in connection with ongoing litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There may also be adverse publicity associated with lawsuits and investigations that could decrease agent and consumer acceptance of our services. Additionally, our business has been in the past, and may be in the future, the subject of class action lawsuits, regulatory actions and investigations and other general litigation. The outcome of class action lawsuits, regulatory actions and investigations and other litigation is difficult to assess or quantify but may include substantial fines and expenses, as well as the revocation of required licenses or registrations or the loss of approved status, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations or consumers' confidence in our business. Plaintiffs or regulatory agencies in these lawsuits, actions or investigations may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of these actions may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend or settle future lawsuits or investigations may be significant. In addition, improper activities, lawsuits or investigations involving our agents may adversely impact our business operations or reputation even if we are not directly involved.. We face possible uncertainties relating to compliance with and the extension and impact of the deferred prosecution agreement entered into with the U.S. federal government.. In November 2012, we announced that we had entered into a five-year DPA with the MDPA/U.S. DOJ relating to the period from 2003 to early 2009. Pursuant to the DPA, the MDPA/U.S. DOJ filed a two-count criminal Information in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania. Under the DPA, the Company has agreed, among other things, to retain an independent compliance monitor (the \"Compliance Monitor\") for a period of five years. On November 1, 2017, the Company agreed to a stipulation with the Government that the term of the Company's DPA be extended for 90 days to February 6, 2018. On January 31, 2018, the Company agreed with the Government that the term of the DPA be extended for an additional 45 days to March 23, 2018. The purpose of the extension is to provide the Company and the Government additional time to discuss whether the Company is in compliance with the DPA. There can be no assurance that the Company and the Government will be able to negotiate a mutually satisfactory outcome during such 45 day period (or during any further short-term extension of the DPA) or that such outcome will not include a further extension of the DPA, financial penalties or additional restrictions on the Company, including a monitorship period beyond the current monitorship that ends on April 30, 2018. The terms of any agreement with the Government could impose significant additional costs upon the Company related to compliance and other required terms, which could have an adverse impact on the Company's operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the Government will not seek any other remedy, including criminal prosecution and financial penalties, in lieu of an extension of the DPA and the monitorship. A prosecution of the Company by the Government or the imposition of significant financial penalties could lead to a severe material adverse effect upon the Company's ability to conduct its business. Furthermore, neither the DPA nor any agreement with the MDPA/U.S. DOJ would resolve any inquiries from other governmental agencies, which could result in additional costs, expenses and fines.. The Company has recorded an $85.0 million accrual in connection with a possible resolution of this matter, based on the facts and circumstances known at the time. However, the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate loss and no assurance can be given that future costs and payments made in connection with this matter will not exceed the amount currently recorded or that the government will not also seek to impose non-monetary remedies or penalties.. Current and proposed data privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to requirements relating to data privacy and cybersecurity under U.S. federal, state and foreign laws. For example, the United States Federal Trade Commission routinely investigates the privacy practices of companies and has commenced enforcement actions against many, resulting in multi-million dollar settlements and multi-year agreements governing the settling companies' privacy practices. In addition, the General Data Protection Regulation in the European Union, effective May 2018, will impose a higher standard of personal data protection with significant penalties for non-compliance for companies operating in the European Union or doing business with European Union residents. If we are unable to meet such requirements, we may be subject to significant fines or penalties. Furthermore, certain industry groups require us to adhere to privacy requirements in. 14. Table of Contents. addition to federal, state and foreign laws, and certain of our business relationships depend upon our compliance with these requirements. As the number of countries enacting privacy and related laws increases and the scope of these laws and enforcement efforts expands, we will increasingly become subject to new and varying requirements. Failure to comply with existing or future data privacy and cybersecurity laws, regulations and requirements, including by reason of inadvertent disclosure of personal information, could result in significant adverse consequences, including reputational harm, civil litigation, regulatory enforcement, costs of remediation, increased expenses for security systems and personnel, harm to our consumers and harm to our agents. These consequences could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, in connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, the Company makes information available to certain United States federal and state, as well as certain foreign, government agencies. In recent years, the Company has experienced increasing data sharing requests by these agencies, particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist financing or reduce the risk of identity theft. During the same period, there has also been increased public attention to the corporate use and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. These regulatory goals may conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. While we believe that we are compliant with our regulatory responsibilities, the legal, political and business environments in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose us to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we fail to successfully develop and timely introduce new and enhanced products and services or if we make substantial investments in an unsuccessful new product, service or infrastructure change, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Our future growth will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to develop and successfully introduce new and enhanced methods of providing money transfer, bill payment, money order, official check and related services that keep pace with competitive introductions, technological changes and the demands and preferences of our agents, financial institution customers and consumers. If alternative payment mechanisms become widely substituted for our current products and services, and we do not develop and offer similar alternative payment mechanisms successfully and on a timely basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may make future investments or enter into strategic alliances to develop new technologies and services or to implement infrastructure changes to further our strategic objectives, strengthen our existing businesses and remain competitive. Such investments and strategic alliances, however, are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that such investments or strategic alliances will be successful. If such investments and strategic alliances are not successful, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our substantial debt service obligations, significant debt covenant requirements and our credit rating could impair our access to capital and financial condition and adversely affect our ability to operate and grow our business.. We have substantial interest expense on our debt, and our ratings are below \"investment grade.\" This requires that we access capital markets that are subject to higher volatility than those that support higher rated companies. Since a significant portion of our cash flow from operations is dedicated to debt service, a reduction in cash flow could result in an event of default, or significantly restrict our access to capital. Our ratings below investment grade also create the potential for a cost of capital that is higher than other companies with which we compete. Further, our debt is subject to floating interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. A significant increase in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.. We are also subject to capital requirements imposed by various regulatory bodies throughout the world. We may need access to external capital to support these regulatory requirements in order to maintain our licenses and our ability to earn revenue in these jurisdictions. An interruption of our access to capital could impair our ability to conduct business if our regulatory capital falls below requirements.. Weakness in economic conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our money transfer business relies in part on the overall strength of global and local economic conditions. Our consumers tend to be employed in industries such as construction, energy, manufacturing and retail that tend to be cyclical and more significantly impacted by weak economic conditions than other industries. This may result in reduced job opportunities for our customers in the U.S. or other countries that are important to our business, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, sustained weakness in the price of oil could adversely affect economic conditions and lead to reduced job opportunities in certain regions that constitute a significant portion of our total money transfer volume, which could result in a decrease in our transaction volume. In addition, increases in employment opportunities may lag other elements of any economic recovery.. 15. Table of Contents. Our agents or billers may have reduced sales or business as a result of weak economic conditions. As a result, our agents could reduce their number of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. Our billers may have fewer consumers making payments to them, particularly billers in those industries that may be more affected by an economic downturn such as the automobile, mortgage and retail industries.. If economic conditions were to deteriorate in a market important to our business, our revenue, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Additionally, if our consumer transactions decline due to deteriorating economic conditions, we may be unable to timely and effectively reduce our operating costs or take other actions in response, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. There are a number of risks associated with our international sales and operations that could adversely affect our business.. We provide money transfer services between and among more than 200 countries and territories and continue to expand in various international markets. Our ability to grow in international markets and our future results could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including:. • changes in political and economic conditions and potential instability in certain regions, including in particular the recent civil unrest, terrorism, political turmoil and economic uncertainty in Africa, the Middle East and other regions;. • restrictions on money transfers to, from and between certain countries;. • currency controls, new currency adoptions and repatriation issues;. • changes in regulatory requirements or in foreign policy, including the adoption of domestic or foreign laws, regulations and interpretations detrimental to our business;. • possible increased costs and additional regulatory burdens imposed on our business;. • the implementation of U.S. sanctions, resulting in bank closures in certain countries and the ultimate freezing of our assets;. • burdens of complying with a wide variety of laws and regulations;. • possible fraud or theft losses, and lack of compliance by international representatives in foreign legal jurisdictions where collection and legal enforcement may be difficult or costly;. • reduced protection of our intellectual property rights;. • unfavorable tax rules or trade barriers;. • inability to secure, train or monitor international agents; and. • failure to successfully manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates, in particular with respect to the euro.. In particular, a portion of our revenue is generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with changes in the value of our revenues denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, we maintain significant foreign currency balances that are subject to volatility, and could result in losses due to a devaluation of the U.S. dollar. See \"Enterprise Risk Management-Foreign Currency Risk\" in Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information.. We conduct money transfer transactions through agents in some regions that are politically volatile, which could increase our cost of operating in those regions.. We conduct money transfer transactions through agents in some regions that are politically volatile, which could increase our cost of operating in those regions. For example, it is possible that our money transfer services or other products could be used in contravention of applicable law or regulations. Such circumstances could result in increased compliance costs, regulatory inquiries, suspension or revocation of required licenses or registrations, seizure or forfeiture of assets and the imposition of civil and criminal fees and penalties, or other restrictions on our business operations. In addition to monetary fines or penalties that we could incur, we could be subject to reputational harm that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have submitted a Voluntary Self-Disclosure to OFAC that could result in penalties from OFAC, which could have a material adverse impact on our business or financial condition.. We have policies and procedures designed to prevent transactions that are subject to economic and trade sanctions programs administered by OFAC and by certain foreign jurisdictions that prohibit or restrict transactions to or from (or dealings with or involving) certain countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, as well as with certain individuals and entities such as narcotics traffickers, terrorists and terrorist organizations. If such policies and procedures are not effective in preventing such transactions, we may violate sanctions programs, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.. 16. Table of Contents. In 2015, we initiated an internal investigation to identify payments processed by the Company that were violations of OFAC sanctions regulations. We notified OFAC of the internal investigation, which was conducted in conjunction with the Company's outside counsel. On March 28, 2017, we filed a Voluntary Self-Disclosure with OFAC regarding the findings of our internal investigation. OFAC is currently reviewing the results of the Company's investigation. OFAC has broad discretion to assess potential violations and impose penalties. At this time, it is not possible to determine the outcome of this matter, or the significance, if any, to our business, financial condition or operations, and we cannot predict when OFAC will conclude their review of our Voluntary Self-Disclosure. Adverse findings or penalties imposed by OFAC could have a material adverse impact on our business or financial condition.. Major bank failure or sustained financial market illiquidity, or illiquidity at our clearing, cash management and custodial financial institutions, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face certain risks in the event of a sustained deterioration of financial market liquidity, as well as in the event of sustained deterioration in the liquidity, or failure, of our clearing, cash management and custodial financial institutions. In particular:. • We may be unable to access funds in our investment portfolio, deposit accounts and clearing accounts on a timely basis to settle our payment instruments, pay money transfers and make related settlements to agents. Any resulting need to access other sources of liquidity or short-term borrowing would increase our costs. Any delay or inability to settle our payment instruments, pay money transfers or make related settlements with our agents could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. • In the event of a major bank failure, we could face major risks to the recovery of our bank deposits used for the purpose of settling with our agents, and to the recovery of a significant portion of our investment portfolio. A substantial portion of our cash, cash equivalents and interest-bearing deposits are either held at banks that are not subject to insurance protection against loss or exceed the deposit insurance limit.. • Our Revolving Credit Facility is one source of funding for our corporate transactions and liquidity needs. If any of the banks participating in our Revolving Credit Facility were unable or unwilling to fulfill its lending commitment to us, our short-term liquidity and ability to engage in corporate transactions, such as acquisitions, could be adversely affected.. • We may be unable to borrow from financial institutions or institutional investors on favorable terms, which could adversely impact our ability to pursue our growth strategy and fund key strategic initiatives, such as product development and acquisitions.. If financial liquidity deteriorates, there can be no assurance we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. An inability by us or our agents to maintain adequate banking relationships may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on domestic and international banks for international cash management, electronic funds transfer and wire transfer services to pay money transfers and settle with our agents. We also rely on domestic banks to provide clearing, processing and settlement functions for our paper-based instruments, including official checks and money orders. Our relationships with these banks are a critical component of our ability to conduct our official check, money order and money transfer businesses. The inability on our part to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships sufficient to enable us to conduct our official check, money order and money transfer businesses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish and maintain adequate banking relationships.. If we cannot maintain sufficient relationships with large international banks that provide these services, we would be required to establish a global network of local banks to provide us with these services or implement alternative cash management procedures, which may result in increased costs. Relying on local banks in each country in which we do business could alter the complexity of our treasury operations, degrade the level of automation, visibility and service we currently receive from banks and affect patterns of settlement with our agents. This could result in an increase in operating costs and an increase in the amount of time it takes to concentrate agent remittances and to deliver agent payables, potentially adversely impacting our cash flow, working capital needs and exposure to local currency value fluctuations.. We and our agents are considered Money Service Businesses in the U.S. under the Bank Secrecy Act. U.S. regulators are increasingly taking the position that Money Service Businesses, as a class, are high risk businesses. In addition, the creation of anti-money laundering laws has created concern and awareness among banks of the negative implications of aiding and abetting money laundering activity. As a result, banks may choose not to provide banking services to Money Services Businesses in certain regions due to the risk of additional regulatory scrutiny and the cost of building and maintaining additional compliance functions. In addition, certain foreign banks have been forced to terminate relationships with Money Services Businesses by U.S. correspondent banks. As a result, we and certain of our agents have been denied access to retail banking services in certain markets by banks that have sought to reduce their exposure to Money Services Businesses and not as a result of any concern related to the Company's. 17. Table of Contents. compliance programs. If we or our agents are unable to obtain sufficient banking relationships, we or they may not be able to offer our services in a particular region, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A breach of security in the systems on which we rely could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We rely on a variety of technologies to provide security for our systems. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments, including improper acts by third parties, may result in a compromise or breach of the security measures we use to protect our systems. We obtain, transmit and store confidential consumer, employer and agent information in connection with certain of our services. These activities are subject to laws and regulations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. The requirements imposed by these laws and regulations, which often differ materially among the many jurisdictions, are designed to protect the privacy of personal information and to prevent that information from being inappropriately disclosed. Any security breaches in our computer networks, databases or facilities could lead to the inappropriate use or disclosure of personal information, which could harm our business and reputation, adversely affect consumers' confidence in our or our agents' business, cause inquiries and fines or penalties from regulatory or governmental authorities, cause a loss of consumers, subject us to lawsuits and subject us to potential financial losses. In addition, we may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Our agents and third-party independent contractors may also experience security breaches involving the storage and transmission of our data as well as the ability to initiate unauthorized transactions. If users gain improper access to our, our agents' or our third-party independent contractors' computer networks or databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify confidential customer information or generate unauthorized money transfers. Such a breach could expose us to monetary liability, losses and legal proceedings, lead to reputational harm, cause a disruption in our operations, or make our consumers and agents less confident in our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Because our business is particularly dependent on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our information technology, computer network systems and data centers, disruptions to these systems and data centers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to provide reliable services largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer network systems and data centers. Our business involves the movement of large sums of money and the management of data necessary to do so. The success of our business particularly depends upon the efficient and error-free handling of transactions and data. We rely on the ability of our employees and our internal systems and processes to process these transactions in an efficient, uninterrupted and error-free manner.. In the event of a breakdown, catastrophic event (such as fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure or physical break-in), security breach, computer virus, improper operation, improper action by our employees, agents, consumers, financial institutions or third-party vendors or any other event impacting our systems or processes or our agents' or vendors' systems or processes, we could suffer financial loss, loss of consumers, regulatory sanctions, lawsuits and damage to our reputation or consumers' confidence in our business. The measures we have enacted, such as the implementation of disaster recovery plans and redundant computer systems, may not be successful. We may also experience problems other than system failures, including software defects, development delays and installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability and increased operating expenses. In addition, any work stoppages or other labor actions by employees who support our systems or perform any of our major functions could adversely affect our business. Certain of our agent contracts, including our contract with Walmart, contain service level standards pertaining to the operation of our system, and give the agent a right to collect damages or engage other providers and, in extreme situations, a right of termination for system downtime exceeding agreed upon service levels. If we experience significant system interruptions or system failures, our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or damages that we may incur.. In addition, our ability to continue to provide our services to a growing number of agents and consumers, as well as to enhance our existing services and offer new services, is dependent on our information technology systems. If we are unable to effectively manage the technology associated with our business, we could experience increased costs, reductions in system availability and loss of agents or consumers. Any failure of our systems in scalability, reliability and functionality could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in tax laws and unfavorable outcomes of tax positions we take could adversely affect our tax expense and liquidity.. From time to time, the U.S. and foreign, state and local governments consider legislation that could increase our effective tax rates. If changes to applicable tax laws are enacted that significantly increase our corporate tax rate, our net income could be negatively impacted.. We file tax returns and take positions with respect to federal, state, local and international taxation, and our tax returns and tax positions are subject to review and audit by taxing authorities. An unfavorable outcome in a tax review or audit could result in higher tax expense, including interest and penalties, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations. 18. Table of Contents. and cash flows. We establish reserves for material known tax exposures; however, there can be no assurance that an actual taxation event would not exceed our reserves.. Recently enacted changes to the U.S. federal tax laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, the legislation commonly known as the \"Tax Cuts and Jobs Act\" (the \"TCJA\"), which significantly revises the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, was enacted. The TCJA, among other things, contains significant changes to the U.S. corporate tax laws, including a permanent reduction of the corporate income tax rate, a limitation on the deductibility of business interest expense, limitation of the deduction for certain net operating losses to 80% of current year taxable income, an indefinite net operating loss carryforward, immediate deductions for new investments in certain business assets instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, modification or repeal of many business deductions and credits (including certain foreign tax credits), a shift of the U.S. taxation of multinational corporations from a tax on worldwide income to a modified territorial system (retaining certain existing rules and containing new rules designed to include in the U.S. income tax base certain income generated in non-U.S. territories whether or not that income has been repatriated to the U.S.), a minimum taxing system related to payments deemed to erode the U.S. tax base, and a one-time tax on accumulated offshore earnings held in cash and illiquid assets (with the latter taxed at a lower rate). We continue to examine the impact the TCJA may have on us, and it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. A significant change or disruption in international migration patterns could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our money transfer business relies in part on international migration patterns, as individuals move from their native countries to countries with greater economic opportunities or a more stable political environment. A significant portion of money transfer transactions are initiated by immigrants or refugees sending money back to their native countries. Changes in immigration laws that discourage international migration and political or other events (such as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that make it more difficult for individuals to migrate or work abroad could adversely affect our money transfer remittance volume or growth rate. Sustained weakness in global economic conditions could reduce economic opportunities for migrant workers and result in reduced or disrupted international migration patterns. Reduced or disrupted international migration patterns, particularly in the U.S. or Europe, are likely to reduce money transfer transaction volumes and therefore have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, significant changes in international migration patterns could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We face credit risks from our agents and financial institutions with which we do business.. The vast majority of our money transfer, bill payment and money order business is conducted through independent agents that provide our products and services to consumers at their business locations. Our agents receive the proceeds from the sale of our payment instruments and money transfers, and we must then collect these funds from the agents. If an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to remit payment instruments or money transfer proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the payment instrument or complete the money transfer on behalf of the consumer.. Moreover, we have made, and may make in the future, secured or unsecured loans to agents under limited circumstances or allow agents to retain our funds for a period of time before remitting them to us. As of December 31, 2017, we had credit exposure to our agents of $549.0 million in the aggregate spread across 14,344 agents.. Financial institutions, which are utilized to conduct business for our Financial Paper Products segment, issue official checks and money orders and remit to us the face amounts of those instruments the day after they are issued. We may be liable for payment on all of those instruments. As of December 31, 2017, we had credit exposure for official checks and money orders conducted by financial institutions of $293.7 million in the aggregate spread across 923 financial institutions.. We monitor the creditworthiness of our agents and the financial institutions with which we do business on an ongoing basis. There can be no assurance that the models and approaches we use to assess and monitor the creditworthiness of our agents and these financial institutions will be sufficiently predictive, and we may be unable to detect and take steps to timely mitigate an increased credit risk.. In the event of an agent bankruptcy, we would generally be in the position of creditor, possibly with limited or no security, and we would therefore be at risk of a reduced recovery. We are not insured against credit losses, except in circumstances of agent theft or fraud. Significant credit losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 19. Table of Contents. If we are unable to adequately protect our brand and the intellectual property rights related to our existing and any new or enhanced products and services, or if we infringe on the rights of others, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. The MoneyGram brand is important to our business. We utilize trademark registrations in various countries and other tools to protect our brand. Our business would be harmed if we were unable to adequately protect our brand and the value of our brand was to decrease as a result.. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality and license agreements to protect the intellectual property rights related to our products and services. We also investigate the intellectual property rights of third parties to prevent our infringement of those rights. We may be subject to third-party claims alleging that we infringe their intellectual property rights or have misappropriated other proprietary rights. We may be required to spend resources to defend such claims or to protect and police our own rights. Some of our intellectual property rights may not be protected by intellectual property laws, particularly in foreign jurisdictions. The loss of our intellectual property protection, the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection or to successfully defend against claims of intellectual property infringement could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operation.. Failure to attract and retain key employees could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Our success depends to a large extent upon our ability to attract and retain key employees. Qualified individuals with experience in our industry are in high demand. In addition, legal or enforcement actions against compliance and other personnel in the money transfer industry may affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. The lack of management continuity or the loss of one or more members of our executive management team could harm our business and future development.. The operation of retail locations and acquisition or start-up of businesses create risks and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We have Company-operated retail locations for the sale of our products and services. We may be subject to additional laws and regulations that are triggered by our ownership of retail locations and our employment of individuals who staff our retail locations. There are also certain risks inherent in operating any retail location, including theft, personal injury and property damage and long-term lease obligations.. We may, from time to time, acquire or start-up businesses both inside and outside of the U.S. The acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of risks. Such risks include, among others:. • risks in connection with acquisitions and start-ups and potential expenses that could be incurred in connection therewith;. • risks related to the integration of new businesses, including integrating facilities, personnel, financial systems, accounting systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures;. • the diversion of capital and management's attention from our core business;. • the impact on our financial condition and results of operations due to the timing of the new business or the failure of the new business to meet operating expectations; and. • the assumption of unknown liabilities relating to the new business.. Risks associated with acquiring or starting new businesses could result in increased costs and other operating inefficiencies, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any restructuring activities and cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the expected results and these actions may adversely affect our business operations.. We have undertaken and may in the future undertake various restructuring activities and cost reduction initiatives in an effort to better align our organizational structure and costs with our strategy. These activities and initiatives can be substantial in scope and they can involve large expenditures. Such activities could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of our strategic objectives and the results of our operations. If we do not fully realize or maintain the anticipated benefits of any restructuring plan or cost reduction initiative, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We are required to certify and report on our compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. In order to achieve effective internal controls, we may need to enhance our accounting. 20. Table of Contents. systems or processes, which could increase our cost of doing business. Any failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Stock. THL owns a substantial percentage of our common stock, and its interests may differ from the interests of our other common stockholders.. As of December 31, 2017, Thomas H. Lee Partners, L.P. (\"THL\") held 43.8% of our outstanding common shares and 37.6% of our outstanding shares on a fully-converted basis (if all of the outstanding shares of the Series D Participating Convertible Preferred (the \"D Stock\") were converted to common shares), excluding treasury shares held by the Company. The combined ownership percentage of THL and affiliates of Goldman Sachs & Co. (\"Goldman Sachs\" and, collectively with THL, the \"Investors\") on a fully-converted basis was 51.7% as of December 31, 2017. Additionally our charter provides that as long as the Investors have a right to designate directors to our Board of Directors pursuant to the Amended and Restated Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 17, 2008, among the Company and the several Investor parties named therein, THL has the right to designate two to four directors (such directors, the \"THL Representatives\"), who each have equal votes and who together have a total number of votes equal to the number of directors as is proportionate to the common stock ownership (on an as-converted basis) of the Investors (rounded to the nearest whole number), unlike the other members of our Board of Directors who have only one vote each. THL has appointed two of the nine members of our Board of Directors, each THL Representative currently has multiple votes, and the THL Representatives together currently hold a majority of the votes of our Board of Directors.. We cannot provide assurance that the interests of THL will coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock and THL's substantial control over us could result in harm to the market price of our common stock by delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or entrenching our management and Board of Directors.. We have a significant number of salable common shares and D Stock held by the Investors relative to our outstanding common shares.. As of December 31, 2017, there were 54.2 million outstanding common shares, excluding treasury shares (or 63.1 million common shares if the outstanding D Stock were converted into common shares). As of December 31, 2017, THL held approximately 23.7 million shares of our common stock and Goldman Sachs held approximately 71,282 shares of D Stock, which are convertible into approximately 8.9 million shares of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of common shares, or the perception that significant sales could occur (particularly if sales are concentrated in time or amount), may depress the trading price of our common stock.. Our charter and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company, which could inhibit your ability to receive a premium on your investment from a possible sale of the Company.. Our charter contains provisions that may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire the Company. These provisions and specific provisions of Delaware law relating to business combinations with interested stockholders may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing certain business combinations, including a merger or change in control of the Company. Some of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition of the Company even if stockholders would receive an attractive value for their shares or if a significant number of our stockholders believed such a proposed transaction to be in their best interests. As a result, stockholders who desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so.. Our bylaws designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.. Our bylaws provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or employees to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our bylaws inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.. 21. Table of Contents. Our Board of Directors has the power to issue series of preferred stock and to designate the rights and preferences of those series, which could adversely affect the voting power, dividend, liquidation and other rights of holders of our common stock.. Under our charter, our Board of Directors has the power to issue series of preferred stock and to designate the rights and preferences of those series. Therefore, our Board of Directors may designate a new series of preferred stock with the rights, preferences and privileges that our Board of Directors deems appropriate, including special dividend, liquidation and voting rights. The creation and designation of a new series of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power, dividend, liquidation and other rights of holders of our common stock and, possibly, any other class or series of stock that is then in existence.. The market price of our common stock may be volatile.. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control. These factors include the perceived prospects or actual operating results of our business; changes in estimates of our operating results by analysts, investors or our management; our actual operating results relative to such estimates or expectations; actions or announcements by us or our competitors; litigation and judicial decisions; legislative or regulatory actions; and changes in general economic or market conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These market fluctuations could reduce the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our operating performance."
