[1] "Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The following risk factors and the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K should be read carefully in connection with evaluating Movado Group's business. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those anticipated. Additional risks which the Company does not presently consider material, or of which it is not currently aware, may also have an adverse impact on the business. Please also see \"Forward-Looking Statements\" on page 1.. Adverse economic conditions in the U.S. or in other key markets, and the resulting declines in consumer confidence and spending, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating results.. The Company's results are dependent on a number of factors impacting consumer confidence and spending, including, but not limited to, general economic and business conditions; wages and employment levels; volatility in the stock market; home values; inflation; consumer debt levels; availability and cost of consumer credit; economic uncertainty; solvency concerns of major financial. 10. institutions; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; fuel and energy costs and/or shortages; tax issues; and general political conditions, both domestic and abroad.. Adverse economic conditions, including declines in employment levels, disposable income, consumer confidence and economic growth could result in decreased consumer spending that would adversely affect sales of consumer goods, particularly those, such as the Company's products, that are viewed as discretionary items. In addition, events such as war, terrorism, natural disasters or outbreaks of disease could further suppress consumer spending on discretionary items. If any of these events should occur, the Company's future sales could decline.. Changes to existing laws or regulations, or the adoption of new laws or regulations, whether in the United States or in any of the other key markets in which the Company does business, could require the Company to change any number of its business practices which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations.. The Company conducts business, either directly or indirectly, in numerous countries and accordingly is subject to a multitude of legal requirements impacting every aspect of its operations. Changes to existing laws and regulations or new laws and regulations could impose new requirements and additional, associated costs on the Company and its suppliers, making the Company's products more costly to produce, forcing the Company to change its existing business practices and potentially affecting its financial condition and results of operations. For example, upon request of the Swiss Federal Government, an ordinance was drafted by the Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry (\"FH\"), which became effective on January 31, 2017, subject to a two-year transition period. Under the FH ordinance, a watch may only be marked with a Swiss indication of origin if, in addition to meeting existing requirements, the design and prototyping of the watch occurred in, and that at least 60% of the manufacturing costs were incurred in Switzerland. Compliance with the new Swissness law and regulations may require the Company to incur additional costs and seek different sources of supply, which may increase the production costs of Movado, Ebel and Concord watches. The Company may also be unable to secure adequate Swiss-based suppliers to meet all of its needs. If the production costs for these watches become more expensive or the watches can no longer be marked as \"Swiss,\" the Company may then be at a competitive disadvantage as compared to other watch brands and sales of its products may decline, adversely affecting its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, U.S. presidential administration has raised the possibility of significantly increasing U.S. tariffs or taxes on the importation of foreign goods. Any such increase could materially increase the Company's cost of watches sold in the United States, which is the Company's single largest market, and could thereby materially and adversely affect the Company's sales, costs and results of operations. Furthermore, if any new legislation and/or regulations are implemented, or if existing trade agreements are renegotiated, it may be time-consuming and expensive for the Company to alter its business operations in order to adapt to or comply with such changes, which also could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. The overall tax environment has made it increasingly challenging for multinational corporations to operate with certainty around taxation in many jurisdictions. For example, the European Commission has investigated whether local country tax rulings or tax legislation provide preferential tax treatment that violates European Union state aid rules. In addition, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which represents a coalition of western countries, is supporting changes to numerous long-standing tax principles through its base erosion and profit shifting project, which is focused on a number of issues, including the shifting of profits among affiliated entities located in different tax jurisdictions. Furthermore, a number of countries where the Company does business, including many European countries, are considering changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to multinational corporations. Finally, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (\"2017 Tax Act\") became law in the United States on December 22, 2017. This new law contains significant changes to corporate taxation, including, among other things, a reduction of the corporate tax rate to 21% from 35%, a one-time taxation of accumulated foreign earnings regardless of whether they are repatriated, limitations on the deduction for interest expense, immediate tax deductions for five years for new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, disallowance of deductions for certain performance-based executive compensation, elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and a migration from a \"worldwide\" system of taxation to a modified territorial system. The interpretation of many provisions of the 2017 Tax Act is still unclear. It is also unclear whether Congress will address any of these issues or when the Internal Revenue Service may issue administrative guidance on the changes to tax law. In addition, foreign countries may decide to enact tax laws that may negatively affect the Company's foreign tax liabilities in response to any real or perceived negative effects of the U.S. tax changes on their countries, and/or states or local governments may decide to enact tax laws that may increase tax liabilities for companies doing business in those jurisdictions as they see opportunities to capitalize on the reduction in the federal corporate tax rate. This increasingly complex global tax environment could have a material adverse effect on the Company's effective tax rate, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.. 11. The \"Brexit\" vote has created significant uncertainty for the Company's U.K. business operations which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.. On June 23, 2016, the results of the United Kingdom (\"U.K\") European Union (\"E.U.\") Membership Referendum (\"Brexit\") were announced approving the withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. In March 2017, the U.K. government initiated the exit process under Article 50 of the Treaty of the E.U. The terms of any withdrawal are subject to a negotiation period that could last for up to two years. These events have created significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the U.K. and the E.U. as, among other things, the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate, including financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, immigration and employment laws, environmental and health and safety laws and intellectual property laws. While the full scope of implementation of Brexit is unclear, the Company may face significant regulatory and other changes and may incur additional costs and expenses as it adapts to potentially divergent legal and regulatory frameworks. Because the Company's U.K. subsidiary imports watches from its subsidiaries based in Switzerland, Brexit could potentially disrupt the Company's ability to service the U.K. market and increase tariffs that the Company pays to import product into the U.K. Furthermore, the announcement of Brexit caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the weakening of the British Pound against other currencies in which the Company conducts business and has also caused other members of the E.U. to consider exit as well, which could lead to further disruptions and uncertainty with respect to the Company's business operations. This weakening of the British Pound may adversely affect the Company's results of operations in a number of ways, including by increasing the Company's U.K. subsidiary's costs of goods sold and by reducing the U.S. dollar value of operating income earned by the Company's U.K. subsidiary. Any such disruption and uncertainty could affect the Company's relationships with customers, suppliers and employees, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. The Company faces intense competition in the worldwide watch industry not only from competitors selling traditional watches but also from those selling smart watches and other smart wearables.. The watch industry is highly competitive and the Company competes globally with numerous manufacturers, importers, distributors and Internet-based retailers, some of which are larger than the Company and have greater financial, distribution, advertising and marketing resources than the Company. The Company's products compete on the basis of price, features, brand image, design, perceived desirability, reliability and perceived attractiveness. However, there can be no assurance that the Company's products will compete effectively in the future and, unless the Company remains competitive, its future results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Company also faces increased, new competition from companies introducing and selling smart wearable devices including smart watches. Many of these companies have significantly greater financial, distribution, advertising and marketing resources than does the Company. The sale of these new smart products could materially adversely impact the traditional watch market and the Company's results of operations and financial condition unless the Company is able to effectively compete in this new product area. The Company's ability to successfully design, produce, market and sell products which are competitive with smart watches and other similar wearables depends, among other things, on its ability to obtain and maintain the necessary expertise in this area by enhancing its internal capabilities or by entering into and maintaining business relationships with third parties that have such expertise. The Company may not be able to launch commercially successful smart watch models or other such products in a timely manner or frequently enough to remain competitive. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition or could result in the Company's products not achieving market acceptance or becoming obsolete.. The design, sourcing, marketing, distribution and after-sales servicing of smart watches involve additional challenges to those applicable to traditional watches.. Although smart watches share certain characteristics with traditional watches, there are important differences in the way the two sets of products are designed, sourced, marketed, distributed, and serviced after they are sold. These differences may make it more difficult to compete successfully in the smart watch market, particularly for competitors such as the Company that do not have significant experience with similar consumer technology products. Although the Company has used and expects to continue to use reputable technology companies to assist it in bringing smart watches to market and supporting end-user customers, there are technology-related and other risks of competing in this market that cannot be eliminated. For example, smart watches' significant reliance on technology increases the risk of allegations of infringement on the intellectual property rights of others. In addition, technical difficulties or product defects may adversely impact sales of smart watches and may have a negative impact on any brand under which an affected smart watch is sold. In addition, although the Company does not currently provide longer warranties on its smart watches than it does for its traditional watches, consumers may expect that smart watches purchased by them, particularly smart watches in the Company's Owned Brands category, will for many years continue to function and be compatible with the smartphone operating systems with which they were intended to interface, including future updates to such operating systems. Since the Company has no control over such operating system updates, it cannot be certain that it will be able to ensure that its smart watches continue to interface with smartphones using such updated operating systems. If the Company fails to meet consumers' expectations regarding the long-term. 12. functioning of its smart watches, the Company may suffer reputational damage that could adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition.. Maintaining favorable brand recognition is essential to the success of the Company, and failure to do so could materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations.. Favorable brand recognition is an important factor to the future success of the Company. The Company sells its products under a variety of owned and licensed brands. Factors affecting brand recognition are often outside the Company's control, and the Company's efforts to create or enhance favorable brand recognition, such as making significant investments in marketing and advertising campaigns (including increased exposure through social media, influencer messaging and other digital advertising channels), product design and anticipation of fashion trends, may not have their desired effects. Additionally, the Company relies on its licensors to maintain favorable brand recognition of their respective brands, and the Company often has no control over the brand management efforts of its licensors. Finally, although the Company's independent distributors are subject to contractual requirements to protect the Company's brands, it may be difficult to monitor or enforce such requirements, particularly in foreign jurisdictions.. Any decline in perceived favorable recognition of the Company's owned or licensed brands and any negative response to social media, influencer or other digital media campaigns could materially and adversely affect future results of operations and profitability. If the Company is unable to respond to changes in consumer demands and fashion trends in a timely manner, sales and profitability could be adversely affected.. Fashion trends and consumer demands and tastes often shift quickly. The Company attempts to monitor these trends in order to adapt its product offerings to suit customer demand. There is a risk that the Company will not properly perceive changes in trends or tastes, which may result in the failure to adapt the Company's products accordingly. In addition, new model designs are regularly introduced into the market for all brands to keep ahead of evolving fashion trends as well as to initiate new trends of their own. There is risk that the public may not favor these new models or that the models may not be ready for sale until after the trend has passed. If the Company fails to respond to and keep up to date with fashion trends and consumer demands and tastes, its brand image, sales, profitability and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.. If the Company misjudges the demand for its products, high inventory levels could adversely affect future operating results and profitability.. Consumer demand for the Company's products can affect inventory levels. If consumer demand is lower than expected, inventory levels can rise causing a strain on operating cash flows. If the inventory cannot be sold through the Company's wholesale channel or retail outlet locations, additional write-downs or write-offs to future earnings could be necessary. Conversely, if consumer demand is higher than expected, insufficient inventory levels could result in unfilled customer orders, loss of revenue and an unfavorable impact on customer relationships. In particular, volatility and uncertainty related to macro-economic factors make it more difficult for the Company to forecast customer demand in its various markets. Failure to properly judge consumer demand and properly manage inventory could have a material adverse effect on profitability and liquidity.. An increase in product returns could negatively impact the Company's operating results and profitability.. The Company recognizes revenue as sales when title and risk of loss transfers to the customer. The Company permits the return of damaged or defective products and accepts limited amounts of product returns in certain instances. Accordingly, the Company provides allowances for the estimated amounts of these returns at the time of revenue recognition based on historical experience. While such returns have historically been within management's expectations and the provisions established, future return rates may differ from those experienced in the past, in particular in light of the Company's entry into the smart watch market. Any significant increase in damaged or defective products or expected returns could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating results for the period or periods in which such returns materialize.. The Company's business relies on the use of independent parties to manufacture its products. Any loss of an independent manufacturer, or the Company's inability to deliver quality goods in a timely manner, could have an adverse effect on customer relations, brand image, net sales and results of operations.. The Company employs a flexible manufacturing model that relies on independent manufacturers to meet shifts in marketplace demand. Most of these manufacturers rely on third party suppliers for the various component parts needed to assemble finished watches sold to the Company. All such independent manufacturers and suppliers must achieve and maintain the Company's high quality standards and specifications. The inability of a manufacturer to ship orders in a timely manner or to meet the Company's high quality standards and specifications could cause the Company to miss committed delivery dates with customers, which could result in cancellation of the customers' orders. In addition, delays in delivery of satisfactory products could have a material adverse effect on. 13. the Company's profitability, particularly if the delays cause the Company to be unable to market certain products during the seasonal periods when its sales are typically higher. See \"Risk Factors  -  The Company's business is seasonal, with sales traditionally greater during certain holiday seasons, so events and circumstances that adversely affect holiday consumer spending will have a disproportionately adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.\" A majority of the Swiss watch movements used in the manufacture of Movado, Ebel and Concord watches are purchased from two suppliers, one of which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of one of the Company's competitors. Additionally, the Company generally does not have long-term supply commitments with its manufacturers and thus competes for production facilities with other organizations, some of which are larger and have greater resources. Any loss of an independent manufacturer or disruption in the supply chain with respect to critical component parts may result in the Company's inability to deliver quality goods in a timely manner and could have an adverse effect on customer relations, brand image, net sales and results of operations.. The Company contractually obligates its contract manufacturers to adhere to the Company's vendor code of conduct and similar codes of conduct adopted by the Company's trademark licensors and the Company monitors compliance with those codes by conducting periodic factory audits. There can be no assurance, however, that any of those independent manufacturers or one or more of the Company's licensors might not violate labor or other laws or use labor practices that deviate from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States or other countries in which the violation or other activities occurred. Such an event could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products or damage the Company's reputation and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.. The loss or shut down of any of the Company's major warehouse and distribution centers could materially adversely affect its business.. The Company operates one distribution facility in New Jersey that is responsible for importing and warehousing products as well as fulfilling and shipping orders to all of the Company's customers in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean and for many of the Company's customers in Latin America. The Company operates a smaller, similar facility in Bienne, Switzerland for the distribution of its Swiss watch brands throughout Europe and the Middle East. In addition, the Company has contracted with a third-party warehouse and fulfillment provider in Asia to handle most of the distribution of its licensed brands and with another third-party warehouse and fulfillment provider in the U.K. to handle a significant portion of the distribution of the Olivia Burton brand. In fiscal 2018, the Company consolidated two third-party warehouse and distribution centers in France and the U.K. into a new third-party facility in the Netherlands for the distribution of its watch brands in Europe. In fiscal 2018, the Company also contracted with a third-party warehouse and fulfillment provider in Mexico through which the Company fulfills and ships orders to the Company's customers in that country. The complete or partial loss or temporary shutdown of any of the Company's or third parties' warehouse and distribution facilities (including as a result of fire or other casualty or labor or other disturbances) could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. In addition, the Company's New Jersey warehouse and distribution facility is operated in a special purpose sub-zone established by the U.S. Department of Commerce Foreign Trade Zone Board and is highly regulated by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, which, under certain circumstances, has the right to shut down the entire sub-zone and, therefore, the entire warehouse and distribution facility. If that were to occur, the Company's ability to fill orders for its U.S., Canadian, Latin American and Caribbean customers would be significantly impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.. If the Company loses any of its license agreements, there may be significant loss of revenues and a negative effect on business.. The Company has the right to produce, market and distribute watches under the brand names of Coach, Tommy Hilfiger, HUGO BOSS, Scuderia Ferrari, Lacoste and Rebecca Minkoff pursuant to license agreements with the respective owners of those trademarks. There are certain minimum royalty payments as well as other requirements associated with the Company's license agreements. Failure to meet any of these requirements could result in the loss of the license. Additionally, after the term of any license agreement has concluded, the licensor may decide not to renew with the Company. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018, the above mentioned licensed brands represented approximately 48.8% of the Company's net sales. While no individual licensed brand represented net sales greater than 20% of the Company's total consolidated net sales and the Company is not substantially dependent on any one licensed brand, the loss of any single licensed brand could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Company's revenues and profitability under its various license agreements may change from period to period due to various factors, including the maturity of the Company's relationship with the respective licensor, changes in consumer preferences, brand repositioning activities and other factors, some of which are outside of the Company's control.. Changes in the sales or channel mix of the Company's products could impact gross profit margins.. The individual brands that are sold by the Company are sold at a wide range of price points and yield a variety of gross profit margins. In addition, sales of excess and/or discontinued inventory into the liquidation channel generate a lower gross profit margin than non-liquidation sales. Thus, the mix of sales by brand as well as by distribution channel can have an impact on the gross profit margins of. 14. the Company. If the Company's sales mix shifts unfavorably toward brands with lower gross profit margins than the Company's historical consolidated gross profit margin or if a greater proportion of liquidation sales are made, it could have an adverse effect on the results of operations.. The Company's business is seasonal, with sales traditionally greater during certain holiday seasons, so events and circumstances that adversely affect holiday consumer spending will have a disproportionately adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.. The Company's sales are seasonal by nature. The Company's U.S. sales are traditionally greater during the Christmas and holiday season. Internationally, major selling seasons center on significant local holidays that occur in late winter or early spring. The amount of net sales and operating income generated during these seasons depends upon the general level of retail sales at such times, as well as economic conditions and other factors beyond the Company's control. The second half of each year accounted for 59.8% (which includes the acquisition of the Olivia Burton brand on July 3, 2017), 56.2% and 55.3% of the Company's net sales for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. If events or circumstances were to occur that negatively impact consumer spending during such holiday seasons, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's sales, profitability and results of operations.. Sales in the Company's retail outlet locations are dependent upon customer foot traffic.. The success of the Company's retail outlet locations is, to a certain extent, dependent upon the amount of customer foot traffic generated by the outlet centers in which those stores are located.. Factors that can affect customer foot traffic include:. •  changes in customer discretionary spending;. •  the location of the outlet center;. •  the location of the Company's store within the outlet center;. •  the other tenants in the outlet center;. •  the occupancy rate of the outlet center;. •  the success of the outlet center and tenant advertising to attract customers;. •  changes in competition in areas surrounding the outlet center; and. •  increased competition from shopping over the internet and other alternatives such as mail-order.. Additionally, since most of the Company's retail outlets are located near vacation destinations, factors that affect travel could decrease outlet center traffic. Such factors include the price and supply of fuel, travel concerns and restrictions, international instability, terrorism and inclement weather. A reduction in foot traffic in relevant shopping centers could have a material adverse effect on retail sales and profitability.. If the Company is unable to maintain existing space or to lease new space for its retail outlets in prime outlet center locations or is unable to complete construction on a timely basis, the Company's ability to achieve favorable results in its retail business could be adversely affected.. The Company's outlet stores are strategically located in top outlet centers in the United States, most of which are located near vacation destinations. If the Company cannot maintain and secure locations in prime outlet centers for its outlet stores on acceptable lease terms, it could jeopardize the operations of the stores and business plans for the future. Additionally, if the Company cannot complete construction in new stores within the planned timeframes, cost overruns and lost revenue could adversely affect the profitability of the retail segment.. The Company's e-commerce business is subject to numerous risks that could have an adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.. Although sales through the Company's e-commerce channels have constituted a small portion of its net sales historically, such sales are growing quickly and the Company expects to continue to grow its e-commerce business in the future. The recent acquisition of the Olivia Burton brand has further increased the importance of the Company's e-commerce sales and marketing channels. Though direct-to-consumer sales generally have higher profit margins and provide the Company with useful insight into the sales impact of certain of. 15. the Company's marketing campaigns, further development of the Company's e-commerce business also subjects the Company to a number of risks. The Company's online sales may negatively impact the Company's relationships with retail customers and distributors and their willingness to invest in the Company's brands if they perceive that the Company is competing with them.. There also is a risk that the Company's e-commerce business may divert sales from the Company's own brick and mortar stores. The Company's failure to successfully respond to these risks might adversely affect sales in the Company's e-commerce business as well as damage its reputation and brands.. In addition, online commerce is subject to increasing regulation by states, the U.S. federal government, and various foreign jurisdictions. Compliance with these laws may increase the Company's costs of doing business, and the Company's failure to comply with these laws may subject the Company to potential fines, claims for damages and other remedies, any of which would have an adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.. If the technology-based systems that give the Company's customers the ability to shop online do not function effectively, the Company's operating results, as well as its ability to grow its digital commerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected.. Customers shop with the Company through its online platforms. Increasingly, customers are using tablets and smartphones to shop online and to do comparison shopping. The Company is increasingly using social media and proprietary mobile applications to interact with the Company's customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. Any failure on the Company's part to provide attractive, effective, reliable, user-friendly digital commerce platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise with rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers could place the Company at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of e-commerce and other sales, harm the Company's reputation with customers, and have a material adverse impact on the growth of the Company's e-commerce business globally and its results of operations.. Furthermore, the Company's e-commerce operations subject the Company to risks related to the computer systems that operate the Company's websites and related support systems, such as system failures, viruses, computer hackers and similar disruptions. If the Company is unable to continually add software and hardware, effectively upgrade its systems and network infrastructure and take other steps to improve the efficiency of its systems, system interruptions or delays could occur that adversely affect the Company's operating results and harm the Company's brands. The Company depends on its technology vendors to manage \"up time\" of the front-end e-commerce stores, manage the intake of orders, and export orders for fulfillment. Any failure on the part of the Company's third-party e-commerce vendors or in the Company's ability to transition third-party services effectively could result in lost sales and harm the Company's brands.. Current or future cost reduction, streamlining, restructuring or business optimization initiatives could result in the Company incurring various charges and other items, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's reported earnings per share and other unadjusted financial measures.. In the course of the Company's efforts to implement its business plan to adapt to the changing economic environment, the Company may be required to take actions that could result in the incurrence of various charges and other items. These charges and other items may include severance and relocation expenses, write-offs or write-downs of assets, impairment charges, facilities closure costs or other business optimization costs. In general, these costs will reduce the Company's operating income and net income (along with the associated per share measures). Therefore, such charges and other items could have a material adverse effect on the Company's reported results of operations and the market price of the Company's securities.. If the Company is unable to successfully implement its growth strategies, its future operating results could suffer.. There are certain risks involved in the Company seeking to expand its business through acquisitions, license agreements, joint ventures and other initiatives. Acquisitions and new license agreements require the Company to ensure that new brands will successfully complement the other brands in its portfolio. The Company assumes the risk that the new brand will not be viewed by the public as favorably as its other brands. In addition, the integration of an acquired company or licensed brand into the Company's existing business can strain the Company's current infrastructure with the additional work required and there can be no assurance that the integration of acquisitions or licensed brands will be successful or that acquisitions or licensed brands will generate sales increases. The Company needs to ensure it has the adequate human resources and systems in place to allow for successful assimilation of new businesses. The inability to successfully implement its growth strategies could adversely affect the Company's future financial condition and results of operations.. 16. The loss or infringement of the Company's trademarks or other intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on future results of operations.. The Company believes that its trademarks and other intellectual property rights are vital to the competitiveness and success of its business and therefore it takes appropriate actions to register and protect them. Such actions may not be adequate to prevent imitation of the Company's products or infringement of its intellectual property rights, or to assure that others will not challenge the Company's rights, or that such rights will be successfully defended. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries, including some in which the Company sells its products, may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, which could make it more difficult to successfully defend such challenges to them. The Company's inability to obtain or maintain rights in its trademarks, including its licensed marks, could have an adverse effect on brand image and future results of operations.. Fluctuations in the pricing of commodities or the cost of labor could adversely affect the Company's ability to produce products at favorable prices.. Some of the Company's higher-end watch offerings are made with materials such as diamonds, precious metals and gold. The Company relies on independent contractors to manufacture and assemble its watch brands. A significant change in the prices of these commodities or the cost of third-party labor could adversely affect the Company's business by:. •  reducing gross profit margins; and/or. •  forcing an increase in suggested retail prices, which could lead to decreasing consumer demand and higher inventory levels.. Any and all of the above events could adversely affect the Company's future cash flows and results of operations.. The Company's business is subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk.. A significant portion of the Company's inventory purchases are denominated in Swiss francs and, to a lesser extent, the Japanese Yen. The Company also sells to third-party customers in a variety of foreign currencies, most notably the Euro and the British Pound. The Company reduces its exposure to the Swiss franc, Euro, British Pound and Japanese Yen exchange rate risks through a hedging program. Under the hedging program, the Company manages most of its foreign currency exposures on a consolidated basis, which allows it to net certain exposures and take advantage of natural offsets. In the event these exposures do not offset, the Company has the ability under a hedging program to utilize forward exchange contracts and purchased foreign currency options to mitigate foreign currency risk. If the Company does not utilize hedge instruments or if such instruments are unsuccessful at minimizing the risk or are deemed ineffective, any fluctuation of the Swiss franc, Euro, British Pound, Hong Kong dollar or Japanese Yen exchange rates could impact the future results of operations. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect relative prices at which the Company and its foreign competitors sell products in the same market. Additionally, a portion of the Company's net sales are recorded in its foreign subsidiaries in a currency other than the local currency of that subsidiary. This predominantly occurs in the Company's Hong Kong and Swiss subsidiaries when they sell to Euro and British Pound based customers. Beginning in fiscal 2016, the Company has utilized forward exchange contracts to mitigate this exposure. To the extent not hedged, any fluctuation in the Euro and British Pound exchange rates in relation to the Hong Kong dollar and Swiss franc would have an effect on these sales that are recorded in Euros and British Pounds. The currency effect on these sales has an equal effect on their recorded gross profit since the costs of these sales are recorded in the entities' respective local currency. As a result of these and other foreign currency sales, certain of the Company's subsidiaries have outstanding foreign currency receivables. Furthermore, since the Company's consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries must be translated into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect the Company's reported revenues, earnings, financial position and the comparability of results of operations from period to period.. From time to time the Company is subject to legal proceedings that could result in significant expenses, fines and reputational damage.. The Company is involved in legal proceedings and other disputes from time to time, including those involving consumers, employees and contractual counterparties, as well as governmental audits and investigations. The most significant of these proceedings are described in Item 3 \"Legal Proceedings\" of this report. The Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome of legal disputes. The Company could in the future be required to pay significant amounts as a result of settlements, judgments or fines in these matters, potentially in excess of accruals. The resolution of, or increase in accruals for, one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and cash flows.. 17. The Grinberg family owns a majority of the voting power of the Company's stock.. Each share of common stock of the Company is entitled to one vote per share while each share of class A common stock of the Company is entitled to ten votes per share. While the members of the Grinberg family do not own a majority of the Company's outstanding common stock, by their significant holdings of class A common stock they control a majority of the voting power represented by all outstanding shares of both classes of stock. Consequently, the Grinberg family is in a position to determine or significantly influence any matters that are brought to a vote of the shareholders including, but not limited to, the election of the Board of Directors and any action requiring the approval of shareholders, including any amendments to the Company's certificate of incorporation, mergers or sales of all or substantially all of the Company's assets. This concentration of ownership also may delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of the Company and make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of the Grinberg family. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of shares of common stock that could give stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of the Company's common stock.. The Company's stock price could fluctuate and possibly decline due to changes in revenue, operating results and cash flows.. The Company's revenue, results of operations and cash flows can be affected by several factors, some of which are not within its control. Those factors include, but are not limited to, those described as risk factors in this Item 1A. and under \"Forward-Looking Statements\" on page 1.. Any or all of these factors could cause a decline in revenues or increased expenses, both of which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations. If the Company's earnings failed to meet the expectations of the public in any given period, the Company's stock price could fluctuate and possibly decline.. If the Company were to lose its relationship with any of its key customers or distributors or any of such customers or distributors were to experience financial difficulties or go out of business, there may be a significant loss of revenue and operating results.. The Company's customer base covers a wide range of distribution including national jewelry store chains, department stores, independent regional jewelers, licensors' retail stores and a network of independent distributors in many countries throughout the world. Except for its agreements with independent distributors, the Company does not have long-term sales contracts with its customers. Customer purchasing decisions could vary with each selling season. A material change in the Company's customers' purchasing decisions could have an adverse effect on its revenue and operating results.. The Company extends credit to its customers based on an evaluation of each customer's financial condition usually without requiring collateral. Should any of the Company's larger customers experience financial difficulties, it could result in the Company's curtailing of doing business with them, an increased rate of product returns or an increase in its exposure related to its accounts receivable. The inability to collect on these receivables could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial results and cash flows.. In many countries, independent distributors are entitled to seek compensation from the entity that granted them distribution rights upon termination of the parties' contractual relationship. Such compensation can equal or exceed one year's worth of the distributor's profits attributable to the distribution of the relevant goods. Although the Company generally renews its agreements with most of its distributors at the end of the then-current contractual term, if the Company elects not to renew its distribution agreements with large distributors or with multiple smaller distributors, it may be required to make material termination payments to such distributors, which would have an adverse effect on its operating results.. The inability or difficulty of the Company's customers, suppliers and business partners to obtain credit could materially and adversely affect its results of operations and liquidity.. Many of the Company's customers, suppliers and business partners rely on a stable, liquid and well-functioning financial system to fund their operations and a disruption in their ability to access liquidity could cause serious disruptions to or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could impair their ability to meet their obligations to the Company, including delivering product ordered by the Company and placing or paying for future orders of the Company's products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and liquidity.. 18. The Company's wholesale business could be negatively affected by further changes of ownership, contraction and consolidation in the retail industry, as well as by the consumer shift toward online sales.. A large portion of the Company's U.S. wholesale business is based on sales to major jewelry store chains and department stores. In recent years, the retail industry has experienced changes in ownership, contraction and consolidations, with a number of jewelry chain stores and department store operators going out of business and liquidating their inventories. Future reorganizations, changes of ownership and consolidations could further reduce the number of retail doors in which the Company's products are sold and increase the concentration of sales among fewer national or large regional retailers, which could materially adversely affect the Company's wholesale business.. In addition, consumers' growing preference for purchasing products online may reduce foot traffic at traditional retail stores and increase price competition for the Company's products, which could discourage traditional retailers from investing in sales support for those products. This could reduce consumer demand for the Company's products and thereby materially adversely affect the Company's wholesale business.. If the Company were to lose key members of management or be unable to attract and retain the talent required for the business, operating results could suffer.. The Company's ability to execute key operating initiatives as well as to deliver product and marketing concepts appealing to target consumers depends largely on the efforts and abilities of key executives and senior management's competencies. The unexpected loss of one or more of these individuals could have an adverse effect on the future business. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to attract and retain the talent and skills needed in the future.. If the Company cannot secure financing and credit on favorable terms, the Company's financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. Credit and equity markets remain sensitive to world events and macro-economic developments. Therefore, the Company's cost of borrowing may increase and it may be more difficult to obtain financing for the Company's operations or to refinance long-term obligations as they become payable. In addition, the Company's borrowing costs can be affected by independent rating agencies' short and long-term debt ratings which are based largely on the Company's performance as measured by credit metrics including interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these ratings would likely also increase the Company's cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for it to obtain financing. A significant increase in the costs that the Company incurs to finance its operations may have a material adverse impact on its business results and financial condition.. A significant portion of the Company's business is conducted outside of the United States. Many factors affecting business activities outside the United States could adversely impact this business.. Substantially all of the Company's watches are assembled in Europe and Asia. The Company also generates approximately 54.1% of its revenue from international sources.. Factors that could affect this business activity vary by region and market and generally include, without limitation:. •  instability or changes in social, political and/or economic conditions that could disrupt the trade activity in the countries where the Company's manufacturers, suppliers and customers are located;. •  the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on imports and exports;. •  changes in foreign laws and regulations;. •  the adoption or expansion of trade sanctions;. •  recessions in foreign economies; and. •  a significant change in currency valuation in specific countries or markets.. If the Company were unable to protect the security of personal information about its customers or employees or prevent a privacy breach, it could be subject to costly government enforcement actions and private litigation and suffer significant negative publicity which could materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations.. As part of the normal course of business the Company is involved in the receipt and storage of electronic information about customers and employees, as well as proprietary financial and non-financial data. Practices regarding the collection, use, storage, transmission. 19. and security of personal information by companies operating over the internet and mobile platforms have recently been subject to increased public scrutiny. Although the Company believes it has taken reasonable and appropriate actions to protect the security of this information, if the Company were to experience a security breach, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events, it could result in government enforcement actions and private litigation, attract a substantial amount of media attention, and damage the Company's reputation and its relationships with its customers and employees, materially adversely affecting the Company's sales and results of operations. This risk has increased with the launch of the Company's smart watches, which collect and transmit personal data about the consumers who purchase and use them.. The Company relies on information systems to conduct its business, and failure to protect these systems against security breaches could adversely affect its business and results of operations. Additionally, if these systems fail or become unavailable for any significant period of time, the Company's business could be harmed.. The efficient operation of the Company's business is dependent on computer hardware and software systems. Information systems are vulnerable to security breaches by computer hackers and cyber terrorists. The Company relies on industry accepted security measures and technology to securely maintain confidential and proprietary information maintained on its information systems. However, these measures and technology may not adequately prevent security breaches. In addition, the unavailability of the information systems or the failure of these systems to perform as anticipated for any reason could disrupt the Company's business and could result in decreased performance and increased operating costs, causing the Company's business and results of operations to suffer. Any significant interruption or failure of the Company's information systems or any significant breach of security could adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations.. The Company is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy and data protection that could result in legal claims, changes to business practices and increased costs that could materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations.. The Company is subject to a variety of U.S and foreign laws and regulations governing privacy and data protection. The introduction of new products, such as smart watches, and the expansion of our business in certain jurisdictions may subject us to additional such laws and regulations. These U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations are evolving and the restrictions imposed thereby may increase and are not always clear. There are currently a number of proposals pending before federal, state, and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies that may increase restrictions relating to the receipt, transfer and processing of personal data. In addition, foreign court decisions and regulatory actions could impact our ability to receive, transfer and process personal data relating to our employees and direct and indirect customers. For example, in October 2015 the European Union's highest court, the European Court of Justice, struck down an agreement with the U.S. government regarding a 15-year-old \"safe harbor\" relied upon by thousands of companies, including the Company, to transfer personal information of European residents to the United States. On February 2, 2016, the European Commission and the U.S. Department of Commerce announced an agreement on a new framework for transatlantic data flows to replace the invalidated U.S.-E.U. Safe Harbor framework. The final E.U.-U.S. Privacy Shield was adopted in July 2016, and the Company is considering possible participation in the program. In the meantime, the Company complies with the European Commission's directives regarding transatlantic data flows via intercompany agreements between its European and U.S. entities by regulating such flows with agreements that contain Standard Contractual Clauses in the form approved by the European Commission. Pending litigation brought by the same party who persuaded the European Court of Justice to strike down the \"safe harbor\" seeks to invalidate the use of Standard Contractual Clauses throughout the E.U. and force widespread changes to the receipt, transfer and processing of personal data. Compliance with any such changes could be expensive and may place restrictions on the conduct of the Company's business and the manner in which the Company interacts with its customers. Existing and proposed privacy and data protection laws and regulations result and may continue to result in significant compliance and operating costs and negative publicity for the Company, and may subject it to remedies that may harm its business, including fines and orders to modify or cease existing business practices. In particular, the General Data Protection Regulation (\"GDPR\") scheduled to go into effect in May 2018 sets forth new requirements regarding the handling of personal data and will increase the compliance burden on the Company and other commercial entities that gather or process personal information of citizens of E.U. countries. Although the Company has a program underway to address GDPR requirements, the Company's efforts to comply with GDPR and other privacy and data protection laws may entail substantial expenses, may divert resources from other initiatives and projects and could limit the services the Company is able to offer. Furthermore, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities relate to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. The enactment of more restrictive laws, rules, regulations, or future enforcement actions or investigations could impact the Company through increased costs or restrictions on the Company's business, and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability. Any of the foregoing could materially adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. 20. The Company depends on its information systems to run its business and any significant disruption to those systems could materially disrupt the Company's business and adversely affect its results of operations.. The Company relies on its information systems to operate every aspect of its world-wide business, including, without limitation, order processing, inventory and supply chain management, customer communications, purchasing and financial reporting. Although the Company attempts to take all reasonable steps to mitigate the risks to its information management systems, including such measures as the use of firewalls, automatically expiring passwords, encryption technology and periodic vulnerability tests, no system can be completely secure against all threats. It is possible that the Company's information systems will experience system failures, viruses, security breaches, power outages, network and telecommunications failures, usage errors by our employees, harmful acts by our website visitors or other events which could disable or significantly impair the systems' functionality. Additionally, the Company's systems may fail to operate properly or effectively, experience problems transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems or difficulties in integrating new systems. Any material disruption or slowdown of the Company's information systems could result in the loss of critical data, the inability to process and properly record transactions and could materially impair the Company's ability to conduct business, leading to cancelled orders and lost sales. In addition, the Company engages in e-commerce and is vulnerable to certain additional risks and uncertainties associated with the Internet, including changes in required technology interfaces, website downtime and other technical failures, security breaches and consumer privacy concerns. A breach and loss of data could also subject the Company to liability to its customers or suppliers and could also cause competitive harm if sensitive information is publicized. In the event the Company is not successful in responding to these risks and uncertainties, its online sales may decline, the associated costs with its e-commerce activity may increase and the reputation of its brands may be damaged."
