[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Claims of injuries from our products, product defects or recalls of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity.. MSA and its subsidiaries face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims arising from the alleged failure of our products to prevent the types of personal injury or death against which they are designed to protect.  In the event the parties using our products are injured or any of our products prove to be defective, we could be subject to claims with respect to such injuries. In addition, we may be required to or may voluntarily recall or redesign certain products that could potentially be harmful to end users.  Any claim or product recall that results in significant expense or negative publicity against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity, including any successful claim brought against us in excess or outside of available insurance coverage.. Our subsidiary, Mine Safety Appliances Company, LLC, may experience losses from cumulative trauma product liability claims.  The inability to collect insurance receivables and the transition to becoming largely self-insured for cumulative trauma product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity.. Our subsidiary, Mine Safety Appliances Company, LLC (\"MSA LLC\") was named as a defendant in 1,420 cumulative trauma lawsuits comprised of 2,242 claims at December 31, 2017.  Cumulative trauma product liability claims involve exposures to harmful substances (e.g., silica, asbestos and coal dust) that occurred years ago and may have developed over long periods of time into diseases such as silicosis, asbestosis, mesothelioma, or coal worker's pneumoconiosis.  The products at issue were manufactured many years ago and are not currently offered by MSA LLC.  A reserve has been established with respect to cumulative trauma product liability claims currently asserted and estimated incurred but not reported (\"IBNR\") cumulative trauma product liability claims.  Because our cumulative trauma product liability risk is subject to inherent uncertainties, including unfavorable trial rulings or developments, an increase in newly filed claims, or more aggressive settlement demands, and since MSA LLC is largely self-insured, there can be no certainty that MSA LLC may not ultimately incur losses in excess of presently recorded liabilities.  These losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  We will adjust the reserve relating to cumulative trauma product liability claims from time to time based on whether the actual numbers, types, and settlement values of claims asserted differ from current projections and estimates or there are significant changes in the facts underlying the assumptions used in establishing the reserve.  These adjustments may be material and could materially impact future periods in which the reserve is adjusted.. In the normal course of business, MSA LLC makes payments to settle these types of cumulative trauma product liability claims and for related defense costs, and records receivables for the amounts believed to be recoverable under insurance.  MSA LLC has recorded insurance receivables totaling $134.7 million at December 31, 2017.  As described in greater detail in Note 19 of the consolidated financial statements in Part II Item 8 of this Form 10-K, MSA LLC is currently involved in insurance coverage litigation regarding the rights and obligations under numerous insurance policies, and for the payment of amounts recorded as insurance receivables.  Various factors could affect the timing and amount of recovery of insurance receivables, including: the outcome of coverage litigation, the outcome of negotiations with insurers, and the extent to which insurers may become insolvent in the future.  Failure to recover amounts due from MSA LLC's insurance carriers would result in MSA LLC being unable to recover for amounts already paid to resolve claims (and recorded as insurance receivables) and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and liquidity.. Even if the remaining insurance coverage litigation is generally successful, the estimated amount of MSA LLC's potential insurance coverage applicable to cumulative trauma product liability claims is insufficient to cover the amounts reserved for such claims at December 31, 2017.  Going forward, most of MSA LLC's cumulative trauma product liability costs will be expensed without the expectation of insurance reimbursement.   MSA LLC expects to obtain some limited insurance reimbursement from negotiated coverage-in-place agreements (although that coverage may not be immediately triggered or accessible) or from other sources of coverage, but the precise amount of insurance reimbursement that may be available cannot be determined with specificity at this time.. 9. Table of Contents. Unfavorable economic and market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in global economic conditions. We have significant operations in a number of countries outside the U.S., some of which are located in emerging markets. Long-term economic uncertainty in some of the regions of the world in which we operate, such as Asia, South America, the Middle East, Europe and emerging markets, could result in declines in revenue, profitability and cash flow due to reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors caused by the economic challenges faced by our customers and suppliers.. A portion of MSA's sales are made to customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical market.  These sales expose MSA to the risks of doing business in that global market. We estimate that between 25% - 30% of our global business is sold into the energy market vertical with the most significant exposure in industrial head protection, portable gas detection and FGFD. Approximately 10% - 15% of consolidated revenue, primarily in industrial head protection and portable gas detection, is more exposed to a pullback in employment trends across the energy market. Another 5% - 10% of consolidated revenue, primarily in the FGFD product line is more exposed to a pullback in capital equipment spending within the energy market. It is possible that the volatility in upstream, midstream and downstream markets, driven partly by geopolitical factors, could negatively impact our business and could result in declines in our consolidated results of operations and cash flow.. A reduction in the spending patterns of government agencies or delays in obtaining government approval for our products could materially and adversely affect our net sales, earnings and cash flow.. The demand for our products sold to the fire service market, the homeland security market and other government agencies is, in large part, driven by available government funding. Government budgets are set annually and we cannot assure that government funding will be sustained at the same level in the future. A significant reduction in available government funding could result in declines in our consolidated results of operations and cash flow.. Our inability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate current and future acquisitions or to realize anticipated cost savings and other benefits could adversely affect our business.. One of our operating strategies is to selectively pursue acquisitions. On September 19, 2016, we completed the acquisition of Senscient, Inc. (\"Senscient\"), which is headquartered in the UK and is a leader in laser-based gas detection technology.  Additionally, on July 31, 2017, we completed the acquisition of Globe Holding Company, LLC (\"Globe\"), which is a leading innovator and provider of firefighter protective clothing and boots.  Please refer to Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements in Part II Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further details. Any future acquisitions will depend on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and successfully consummate such acquisitions. Acquisitions involve a number of risks including:. • failure of the acquired businesses to achieve the results we expect;. • diversion of our management's attention from operational matters;. • our inability to retain key personnel of the acquired businesses;. • risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities;. • potential disruption of our existing business; and. • customer dissatisfaction or performance problems at the acquired businesses.. If we are unable to integrate or successfully manage businesses that we have recently acquired, including Latchways, Senscient and Globe, or may acquire in the future, we may not realize anticipated cost savings, improved manufacturing efficiencies and increased revenue, which may result in material adverse short- and long-term effects on our consolidated operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Even if we are able to integrate the operations of our acquired businesses into our operations, we may not realize the full benefits of the cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits that we may have expected at the time of acquisition. In addition, even if we achieve the expected benefits, we may not be able to achieve them within the anticipated time frame, and such benefits may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the acquired companies and increases in other expenses.. 10. Table of Contents. Our plans to continue to improve productivity and reduce complexity may not be successful, which could adversely affect our ability to compete.. MSA has integrated parts of its European operating segment that have historically been individually managed entities, into a centrally managed organization model. We have begun to and plan to continue to leverage the benefits of scale created from this approach and are in the process of implementing a more efficient and cost-effective enterprise resource planning system in additional locations across the International Segment.  MSA runs the risk that these and similar initiatives may not be completed substantially as planned, may be more costly to implement than expected, or may not have the positive effects anticipated. In addition, these various initiatives require MSA to implement a significant amount of organizational change which could divert management's attention from other concerns, and if not properly managed, could cause disruptions in our day-to-day operations and have a negative impact on MSA's financial results. It is also possible that other major productivity and streamlining programs may be required in the future.. Our plans to improve future profitability through restructuring programs may not be successful and could lead to unintended consequences.. We have incurred and may incur restructuring charges primarily related to severance costs for staff reductions associated with our ongoing initiatives to drive profitable growth and right size our operations.  For example in 2016, certain employees in the Americas segment were offered a voluntary retirement incentive package (\"VRIP\"). Non-cash special termination benefit expense of approximately $11.4 million was recorded in the first quarter of 2017 related to elections under the VRIP.  These efforts are intended to contribute to increased profitability in 2018.  Our cost structure in future periods is somewhat dependent upon our ability to maintain increased productivity without backfilling certain positions.  If our programs are not successful, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations.. Our future results are subject to the risk that purchased components and materials are unavailable or available at excessive cost due to material shortages, excessive demand, currency fluctuation and other factors.. We depend on various components and materials to manufacture our products. Although we have not experienced any difficulty in obtaining components and materials, it is possible that any of our supplier relationships could be terminated or otherwise disrupted. Any sustained interruption in our receipt of adequate supplies could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to successfully manage price fluctuations due to market demand, currency risks or material shortages, or future price fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition.. If we fail to introduce successful new products or extend our existing product lines, we could lose our market position and our financial performance could be materially and adversely affected.. In the safety products market, there are frequent introductions of new products and product line extensions. If we are unable to identify emerging consumer and technological trends, maintain and improve the competitiveness of our products and introduce new products, we may lose our market position, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We continue to invest significant resources in research and development and market research. However, continued product development and marketing efforts are subject to the risks inherent in the development process. These risks include delays, the failure of new products and product line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance and the risk of failed product introductions.. A failure of our information systems could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The proper functioning and security of our information systems is critical to the operation of our business. Our information systems may be vulnerable to damage or disruption from natural or man-made disasters, computer viruses, power losses or other system or network failures. In addition, hackers and cybercriminals could attempt to gain unauthorized access to our information systems with the intent of harming our company or obtaining sensitive information such as intellectual property, trade secrets, financial and business development information, and customer and vendor related information. If our information systems or security fail, our business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. 11. Table of Contents. Like many companies, from time to time, we have experienced attacks on our computer systems by unauthorized outside parties. Because the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks constantly evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, prevent or detect these attacks. As a result, our technologies and processes may be misappropriated and the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. Any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, or cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by the incident. We routinely implement improvements to our network security safeguards as well as cybersecurity initiatives.  We expect to devote increasing resources to the security of our information technology systems. We cannot assure that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber-attack or network disruptions.. Damage to the reputation of MSA or to one or more of our product brands could adversely affect our business.. Developing and maintaining our reputation, as well as the reputation of our brands, is a critical factor in our relationship with customers, distributors and others. Our inability to address negative publicity or other issues, including concerns about product safety or quality, real or perceived, could negatively impact our business which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition.. If we lose any of our key personnel or are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel or plan the succession of senior management, our ability to manage our business and continue our growth could be negatively impacted.. Our success depends in large part on the continued contributions of our key management, engineering and sales and marketing personnel, many of whom are highly skilled and would be difficult to replace. Our success also depends on the abilities of new personnel to function effectively, both individually and as a group. If we are unable to attract, effectively integrate and retain management, engineering or sales and marketing personnel, then the execution of our growth strategy and our ability to react to changing market requirements may be impeded, and our business could suffer as a result.. In addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement critical personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future revenues. Competition for personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. The hiring of new personnel may also result in increased costs and we do not currently maintain key person life insurance.. Our success also depends on effective succession planning. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving senior management could hinder our strategic planning and execution. From time to time, senior management or other key employees may leave our company. While we strive to reduce the negative impact of such changes, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and the results of our operations.. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive, and some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. The competitive pressures faced by us could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. The safety products market is highly competitive, with participants ranging in size from small companies focusing on single types of safety products, to large multinational corporations that manufacture and supply many types of safety products. Our main competitors vary by region and product. We believe that participants in this industry compete primarily on the basis of product characteristics (such as functional performance, agency approvals, design and style), price, service and delivery, customer support, the ability to meet the special requirements of customers, brand name trust and recognition, and e-business capabilities.  Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do and our business could be adversely affected by competitors' new product innovations, technological advances made to competing products and pricing changes made by us in response to competition from existing or new competitors. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors and the competitive pressures faced by us could have a material adverse effect our business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, e-business is a rapidly developing area, and the execution of a successful e-business strategy involves significant time, investment and resources. If we are unable to successfully expand e-business capabilities in support of our customer needs, our brands may lose market share which could negatively impact revenue and profitability.. 12. Table of Contents. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and any violation of these laws could adversely affect our results of operations.. We are subject to extensive regulation from U.S. federal, state, and local governments, as well as the governments of the countries in which we conduct business. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in severe civil or criminal penalties, sanctions or significant changes to our operations. These actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to various environmental laws and any violation of these laws could adversely affect our results of operations.. Included in the extensive laws, regulations and ordinances, to which we are subject, are those relating to the protection of the environment. Examples include those governing discharges to air and water, handling and disposal practices for solid and hazardous wastes and the maintenance of a safe workplace. These laws impose penalties for noncompliance and liability for response costs and certain damages resulting from past and current spills, disposals, or other releases of hazardous materials. We could incur substantial costs as a result of noncompliance with or liability for cleanup pursuant to these environmental laws. Such laws continue to change, and we may be subject to more stringent environmental laws in the future. If more stringent environmental laws are enacted, these future laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition.. We benefit from free trade laws and regulations, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement and any changes to these laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations.. Existing free trade laws and regulations, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement (\"NAFTA\"), provide certain beneficial duties and tariffs for qualifying imports and exports, subject to compliance with the applicable classification and other requirements. Changes in laws or policies governing the terms of foreign trade, and in particular increased trade restrictions, tariffs or taxes on imports from countries where we manufacture products, such as China and Mexico, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to various U.S and foreign tax laws and any changes in these laws related to the taxation of businesses and resolutions of tax disputes could adversely affect our results of operations.. The U.S. Congress, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (or, OECD) and other government agencies in jurisdictions in which we and our affiliates invest or do business have maintained a focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational companies.  The OECD has changed numerous long-standing tax principles through its base erosion and profit shifting (\"BEPS\") project which could adversely impact our effective tax rate.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (\"the Act\"), which was signed into law on December 22, 2017 has resulted in significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system including reducing the U.S. corporate rate to 21% starting in 2018.  The Act also creates a territorial tax system with a one-time mandatory tax on previously deferred foreign earnings of U.S. subsidiaries.  This one-time transition tax will be paid over an eight-year period, starting in 2018 and will not accrue interest.. On December 22, 2017, Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (\"SAB 118\") was issued to address the application of US GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Act.  In accordance with SAB 118, the Company has calculated its best estimate of the impact of the Act.  Changes to applicable tax law, regulations or interpretations of the Act may require further adjustments and changes in our estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate.  The final determination of the transition tax and the revaluation of U.S. deferred assets and liabilities will be completed as additional information becomes available, but no later than one year from the enactment of the Act.. We are subject to regular review and audit by both foreign and domestic tax authorities. While we believe our tax positions will be sustained, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation may differ materially from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. 13. Table of Contents. We have significant international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries.. We have business operations in over 40 foreign countries. In 2017, approximately half of our net sales were made by operations located outside the United States. Our international operations are subject to various political, economic and other risks and uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. These risks include the following:. • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;. • changes in trade policy or tariff regulations;. • changes in tax laws and regulations;. • changes to the Company's legal structure could have unintended tax consequences;. • inability to generate sufficient profit in certain foreign jurisdictions could lead to additional valuation allowances on deferred tax assets;. • intellectual property protection difficulties;. • difficulty in collecting accounts receivable;. • complications in complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, some of which may conflict with U.S. laws;. • trade protection measures and price controls;. • trade sanctions and embargoes;. • nationalization and expropriation;. • increased international instability or potential instability of foreign governments;. • effectiveness of worldwide compliance with MSA's anti-bribery policy, local laws and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. • difficulty in hiring and retaining qualified employees;. • the ability to effectively negotiate with labor unions in foreign countries;. • the need to take extra security precautions for our international operations;. • costs and difficulties in managing culturally and geographically diverse international operations; and. • risks associated with the United Kingdom's decision to exit the European Union, including disruptions to trade and free movement of goods, services and people to and from the United Kingdom; increased foreign exchange volatility with respect to the British pound; and additional legal and economic uncertainty.. Any one or more of these risks could have a negative impact on the success of our international operations and, thereby, have a material adverse effect our business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition.. 14. Table of Contents. Because we derive a significant portion of our sales from the operations of our foreign subsidiaries, future currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and could affect the comparability of our results between financial periods.. In 2017, our operations outside of the United States accounted for approximately half of our net sales. The results of our foreign operations are generally reported in the local currency of the affiliate and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. The exchange rates between some of these currencies and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to do so in the future. A weakening of the currencies in which sales are generated relative to the currencies in which costs are denominated would decrease our results of operations and cash flow. Although the Company uses instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these hedges only offset a portion of the Company's exposure to foreign currency fluctuations.. In addition, because our consolidated financial statements are stated in U.S. dollars, such fluctuations may affect our consolidated results of operations and financial position, and may affect the comparability of our results between financial periods. Our inability to effectively manage our exchange rate risks or any volatility in currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition.. Our ability to market and sell our products is subject to existing government regulations and standards. Changes in such regulations and standards or our failure to comply with them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.. Most of our products are required to meet performance and test standards designed to protect the safety of people and infrastructures around the world. Our inability to comply with these standards could result in declines in revenue, profitability and cash flow. Changes in regulations could reduce the demand for our products or require us to re-engineer our products, thereby creating opportunities for our competitors. Regulatory approvals for our products may be delayed or denied for a variety of reasons that are outside of our control. Additionally, market anticipation of significant new standards can cause customers to accelerate or delay buying decisions.. Our continued success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our business could be materially and adversely affected.. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. We have been issued patents and have registered trademarks with respect to many of our products, but our competitors could independently develop similar or superior products or technologies, duplicate any of our designs, trademarks, processes or other intellectual property or design around any processes or designs on which we have or may obtain patents or trademark protection. In addition, it is possible that third parties may have, or will acquire, licenses for patents or trademarks that we may use or desire to use, so that we may need to acquire licenses to, or to contest the validity of, such patents or trademarks of third parties. Such licenses may not be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and we may not prevail in contesting the validity of third party rights.. We also protect trade secrets, know-how and other confidential information against unauthorized use by others or disclosure by persons who have access to them, such as our employees, through contractual arrangements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. Our inability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.. If our goodwill, other intangible assets and long-lived assets become impaired, we may be required to record significant charges to earnings.. We review our long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are required to be assessed for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying amount of our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets or long-lived assets may not be recoverable include slower growth rates in our markets, reduced expected future cash flows, increased country risk premium as a result of political uncertainty and a decline in stock price and market capitalization. We consider available current information when calculating our impairment charge. If there are indicators of impairment, our long-term cash flow forecasts for our operations deteriorate or discount rates increase, we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in later periods. See Note 12 of the consolidated financial statements in Part II Item 8 of this Form 10-K for the carrying amounts of goodwill in each of our reporting segments.. 15. Table of Contents. Risks related to our defined benefit pension and other post-retirement plans could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow.. Significant changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and other factors could adversely affect our results of operations and pension contributions in future periods. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. Funding requirements for our pension plans may become more significant. However, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. For further information regarding our pension plans, refer to \"Pensions and Other Post-retirement Benefits\" in Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements in Part II Item 8 of this Form 10-K.. If we fail to meet our debt service requirements or the restrictive covenants in our debt agreements or if interest rates increase, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.. We have a substantial amount of debt upon which we are required to make scheduled interest and principal payments and we may incur additional debt in the future. A significant portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates that may increase in the future. Our debt agreements require us to comply with certain restrictive covenants. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to service our debt or if interest rates increase, our consolidated results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, a failure to comply with the restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements could result in a default, which if not waived by our lenders, could substantially increase borrowing costs and require accelerated repayment of our debt. Please refer to Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements in Part II Item 8 of this Form 10-K for commentary on our compliance with the restrictive covenants."
