[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK  FACTORS. <U+FEFF>. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating the Company and its business. Our future operating results depend upon many factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The known material risks and uncertainties which may cause our operating results to vary from anticipated results or which may negatively affect our operating results and profitability are as follows:. <U+FEFF>. Our business depends heavily on the operating levels of our customers and the economic factors that affect them.. <U+FEFF>. Many of the primary markets for the products and services we sell are subject to cyclical fluctuations that affect demand for goods and materials that our customers produce. Consequently, demand for our products and services has been and will continue to be influenced by most of the same economic factors that affect demand for and production of our customers' products.. <U+FEFF>. When, as occurs in economic downturns, customers or prospective customers reduce production levels because of lower demand or tight credit conditions, their need for our products and services diminishes. Selling prices and terms of sale come under pressure, adversely affecting the profitability and the durability of customer relationships. Credit losses increase as well. Volatile economic and credit conditions also make it more difficult for distributors, as well as customers and suppliers, to forecast and plan future business activities.. <U+FEFF>. In addition, as various sectors of our industrial customer base face increased foreign competition, and in fact lose business to foreign competitors or shift their operations overseas in an effort to reduce expenses, we may face increased difficulty in growing and maintaining our market share and growth prospects.. <U+FEFF>. Changes in our customer and product mix, or adverse changes to the cost of goods we sell, could cause our gross margin percentage to fluctuate, or decrease.. <U+FEFF>. From time to time, we have experienced changes in our customer mix and in our product mix. Changes in our customer mix have resulted from geographic expansion, daily selling activities within current geographic markets, and. 8. targeted selling activities to new customers. Changes in our product mix have resulted from marketing activities to existing customers and needs communicated to us from existing and prospective customers as well as from business acquisitions. As our large account customer program sales grow, we will face continued pressures on maintaining gross margin because these customers receive lower pricing due to their higher level of purchases from MSC.  In addition, our continued expansion of our vending program and other e-commerce platforms has placed pressure on our gross margin.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our historical gross margins. In addition, we may also be subject to price increases from vendors that we may not be able to pass along to our customers.. <U+FEFF>. We operate in a highly competitive industry.. <U+FEFF>. The MRO supply industry, although consolidating, still remains a large, fragmented industry that is highly competitive. We face competition from traditional channels of distribution such as retail outlets, small dealerships, regional or national distributors utilizing direct sales forces, manufacturers of MRO supplies, large warehouse stores and larger direct mail distributors. We believe that sales of MRO supplies will become more concentrated over the next few years, which may make the industry more competitive. Our competitors challenge us with a greater variety of product offerings, financial resources, services or a combination of all of these factors.  In addition, we also face the risk of companies which operate primarily outside of our industry entering our marketplace.. <U+FEFF>. We also face emerging competitors participating primarily in the online distribution space that compete with price transparency. Increased competition from online retailers (particularly those major internet providers who can offer a wide range of products and rapid delivery), and the adoption by competitors of aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods, could cause us to lose market share or reduce our prices, adversely affecting our sales, margins and profitability.. <U+FEFF>. Our industry is consolidating, which could adversely affect our business and financial results.. <U+FEFF>. The business of selling MRO supplies in North America is currently undergoing some consolidation. This consolidation is being driven by customer needs. Customers are increasingly aware of the total costs of fulfillment, and of their need to have consistent sources of supply at multiple locations. Consistent sources of supply provide not just reliable product quantities, but also consistent pricing, quality and service capabilities. We believe these customer needs could result in fewer suppliers as the industry consolidates, and as the remaining suppliers become larger and capable of being a consistent source of supply.. <U+FEFF>. Traditional MRO suppliers are attempting to consolidate the market through internal expansion, through acquisitions or mergers with other industrial and construction suppliers, or through a combination of both. This consolidation allows suppliers to improve efficiency and spread fixed costs over a greater number of sales, and to achieve other benefits derived from economies of scale.. <U+FEFF>. The trend of our industry toward consolidation could cause the industry to become more competitive as greater economies of scale are achieved by competitors, or as competitors with new lower cost business models are able to operate with lower prices and gross profit on products. These trends may adversely affect our sales, margins and profitability.. <U+FEFF>. Volatility in commodity and energy prices may adversely affect operating margins.. <U+FEFF>. In times of commodity and energy price increases, we may be subject to price increases from our vendors and freight carriers that we may be unable to pass along to our customers. Raw material costs used in our vendors' products (steel, tungsten, etc.) and energy costs may increase, which may result in increased production costs for our vendors. The fuel costs of our independent freight companies have been volatile. Our vendors and independent freight carriers typically look to pass increased costs along to us through price increases. When we are forced to accept these price increases, we may not be able to pass them along to our customers, resulting in lower margins.. <U+FEFF>. In addition to increases in commodity and energy prices, decreases in those costs, particularly if severe, could also adversely impact us by creating deflation in selling prices, which could cause our gross profit margin to deteriorate, or by negatively impacting customers in certain industries, which could cause our sales to those customers to decline.. <U+FEFF>. Inflation impacts the costs at which we can procure products and our ability to increase prices at which we sell to customers over time. Prolonged periods of low inflation or deflation could adversely affect our ability to increase the prices at which we sell to customers.. <U+FEFF>. 9. As a United States government contractor, we are subject to certain laws and regulations which may increase our costs of doing business and which subject us to certain compliance requirements and potential liabilities.. <U+FEFF>. As a supplier to the United States government, we must comply with certain laws and regulations, including the Trade Agreements Act, the Buy American Act and the Federal Acquisition Regulation, relating to the formation, administration and performance of United States government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with government customers, and in some instances, impose added compliance and other costs on our business. From time to time, we are subject to governmental or regulatory inquiries or audits relating to our compliance with these laws and regulations. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our United States government contracts and could harm our reputation and cause our business to suffer.. <U+FEFF>. Our business is exposed to the credit risk of our customers which could adversely affect our operating results.. <U+FEFF>. We perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition and collateral is generally not required. Our standard receivable terms are generally due within 30 days. We evaluate the collectability of accounts receivable based on numerous factors, including past transaction history with customers and their creditworthiness and we provide a reserve for accounts that we believe to be uncollectible. A significant deterioration in the economy could have an adverse effect on the servicing of these accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs and defaults.. <U+FEFF>. The risk of cancellation or rescheduling of orders may cause our operating results to fluctuate.. <U+FEFF>. The cancellation or rescheduling of orders may cause our operating results to fluctuate. Although we strive to maintain ongoing relationships with our customers, there is an ongoing risk that orders may be cancelled or rescheduled due to fluctuations in our customers' business needs or purchasing budgets, including changes in national and local government budgets. Additionally, although our customer base is diverse, ranging from individual machine shops to Fortune 100 companies and large governmental agencies, the cancellation or rescheduling of significant orders by larger customers may still have a material adverse effect on our operating results from time to time.. <U+FEFF>. Work stoppages and other disruptions, including those due to extreme weather conditions, at transportation centers or shipping ports may adversely affect our ability to obtain inventory and make deliveries to our customers.. <U+FEFF>. Our ability to provide same-day shipping and next-day delivery of our core metalworking and MRO products is an integral component of our overall business strategy. Disruptions at transportation centers or shipping ports, due to labor stoppages or severe weather conditions affect both our ability to maintain core products in inventory and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which may in turn adversely affect our customer relationships and results of operations. In addition, severe weather conditions, including winter storms, could adversely affect demand for our products in particularly hard hit regions and impact our sales.. <U+FEFF>. Disruptions or breaches of our information systems could adversely affect us.. <U+FEFF>. We believe that our information technology (\"IT\") systems are an integral part of our business and growth strategies. We depend upon our IT systems to help process orders, to manage inventory and accounts receivable collections, to manage financial reporting, to purchase, sell and ship products efficiently and on a timely basis, to maintain cost-effective operations, to operate our websites and to help provide superior service to our customers. Our IT systems may be vulnerable to damage or disruption caused by circumstances beyond our control or anticipation, such as catastrophic events, power outages, natural disasters, computer system or network failures, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and cyber-attacks. The failure of our IT systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, loss of data, processing inefficiencies, downtime, litigation, substantial remediation costs (including potential liability for stolen assets or information and the costs of repairing system damage), and the loss of sales and customers. In addition, changes to our information systems could disrupt our business operations. Any one or more of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Our success is dependent on certain key personnel.. <U+FEFF>. Our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of certain key senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of such key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We do not maintain any key-man insurance policies with respect to any of our executive officers.. <U+FEFF>. 10. Our business depends on our ability to retain and to attract qualified sales and customer service personnel and metalworking specialists.. <U+FEFF>. There are significant costs associated with hiring and training sales and customer service professionals and metalworking specialists. We greatly benefit from having associates who are familiar with the products we sell and their applications, as well as with our customer and supplier relationships. We could be adversely affected by a shortage of available skilled workers or the loss of a significant number of our sales or customer service professionals and metalworking specialists.. <U+FEFF>. The loss of key suppliers or contractors or supply chain disruptions could adversely affect our operating results.. <U+FEFF>. We believe that our ability to offer a combination of well-known brand name products and competitively priced exclusive brand products is an important factor in attracting and retaining customers. Our ability to offer a wide range of products and services is dependent on obtaining adequate product supply and services from our key suppliers and contractors.  The loss of, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products or services from key suppliers or contractors at competitive prices, or the loss of a key brand could cause our revenues and profitability to decrease. In addition, supply interruptions could arise due to transportation disruptions, labor disputes or other factors beyond our control. Disruptions in our supply chain could result in a decrease in revenues and profitability.. <U+FEFF>. New trade policies could make sourcing products from overseas more difficult and/or more costly.. <U+FEFF>. Any changes to trade policies, including the imposition of significant restrictions or tariffs, whether as a result of amendments to or elimination of existing trade agreements, could adversely affect our ability to secure sufficient products to service our customers and/or result in increases product costs that we may not be able to pass on to our customers, resulting in lower margins.. <U+FEFF>. Opening or expanding our customer fulfillment centers exposes us to risks of delays and may affect our operating results.. <U+FEFF>. In the future, as part of our long-term strategic planning, we may open new customer fulfillment centers to improve our efficiency, geographic distribution and market penetration. In addition, we intend to make, as we have in the past, capital improvements and operational enhancements to certain of our existing customer fulfillment centers. Moving or opening customer fulfillment centers and effecting such improvements requires a substantial capital investment, including expenditures for real estate and construction, and opening new customer fulfillment centers requires a substantial investment in inventory. In addition, the opening of new customer fulfillment centers or the expansion of existing customer fulfillment centers would have an adverse impact on distribution expenses as a percentage of sales, inventory turnover and return on investment in the periods prior to and for some time following the commencement of operations of each new customer fulfillment center or the completion of such expansions. Additionally, until sales volumes mature at new customer fulfillment centers, operating expenses as a percentage of sales may be adversely impacted. Further, substantial or unanticipated delays in the commencement of operations at new customer fulfillment centers could have a material adverse effect on our geographic expansion and may impact results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. An interruption of operations at our headquarters or customer fulfillment centers could adversely impact our business.. Our business depends on maintaining operations at our co-located headquarters and customer fulfillment centers. A serious, prolonged interruption due to power outage, telecommunications outage, terrorist attack, earthquake, hurricane, fire, flood or other natural disaster, or other interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to litigation risk due to the nature of our business, which may have a material adverse effect on our business.. <U+FEFF>. From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings that arise from business transactions. These may, for example, relate to product liability claims, commercial disputes, or employment matters. In addition, we could face claims over other matters, such as claims arising from our status as a government contractor, intellectual property matters, or corporate or securities law matters. The defense and ultimate outcome of lawsuits or other legal proceedings may result in higher operating expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. 11. We may encounter difficulties with acquisitions and other strategic transactions, which could harm our business.. <U+FEFF>. We have completed several acquisitions and we expect to continue to pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions, such as joint ventures, that we believe will either expand or complement our business in new or existing markets or further enhance the value and offerings we are able to provide to our existing or future potential customers.. <U+FEFF>. Acquisitions and other strategic transactions involve numerous risks and challenges, including the following:. <U+FEFF>. •diversion of management's attention from the normal operation of our business;. <U+FEFF>. •potential loss of key associates and customers of the acquired companies;. <U+FEFF>. •difficulties managing and integrating operations in geographically dispersed locations;. <U+FEFF>. •the potential for deficiencies in internal controls at acquired companies;. <U+FEFF>. •increases in our expenses and working capital requirements, which reduce our return on invested capital;. <U+FEFF>. •lack of experience operating in the geographic market or industry sector of the acquired business; and. <U+FEFF>. •exposure to unanticipated liabilities of acquired companies.. <U+FEFF>. To integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our management information systems, operating systems and internal controls, and assimilate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. The difficulties of this integration may be further complicated by geographic distances. The integration of acquired businesses may not be successful and could result in disruption to other parts of our business.. <U+FEFF>. The terms of our credit facility and senior notes impose operating and financial restrictions on us, which may limit our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions.. <U+FEFF>. We currently have a $600.0 million unsecured revolving loan facility. The facility matures on April 14, 2022. The facility permits us, subject to approval of the administrative agent and the lenders providing the financing, to request incremental term loans and revolving commitment increases up to an aggregate amount of $300.0 million, in increments not less than $50.0 million or the remaining availability.  In addition, we have outstanding $175.0 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes.  The senior notes mature in July 2023 ($75.0 million) and July 2026 ($100.0 million). We are subject to various operating and financial covenants under the credit facility and senior notes which restrict our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make particular types of investments, incur certain types of liens, engage in fundamental corporate changes, enter into transactions with affiliates or make substantial asset sales. Any failure to comply with these covenants may constitute a breach under the credit facility and senior notes, which could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of any outstanding indebtedness and termination of revolving credit commitments under the facility. Our inability to maintain our credit facility could materially adversely affect our liquidity and our business. At September 2, 2017, we were in compliance with the operating and financial covenants under the credit facility and senior notes.. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations.. <U+FEFF>. We are subject to federal, state, local, foreign and provincial environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Fines and penalties may be imposed for non-compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety requirements and the failure to have or to comply with the terms and conditions of required permits. The failure by us to comply with applicable environmental, health and safety requirements could result in fines, penalties, enforcement actions, third party claims for property damage and personal injury, requirements to clean up property or to pay for the costs of cleanup, or regulatory or judicial orders requiring corrective measures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.. <U+FEFF>. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded as a result of our acquisitions could become impaired.. <U+FEFF>. As of September 2, 2017, our combined goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets amounted to $647.9 million. To the extent we do not generate sufficient cash flows to recover the net amount of any investments in goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded, the investment could be considered impaired and subject to write-off. We expect to record further goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets as a result of future acquisitions we may complete.. 12. Future amortization of such assets or impairments, if any, of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets would adversely affect our results of operations in any given period.. <U+FEFF>. Our common stock price may be volatile.. <U+FEFF>. We believe factors such as fluctuations in our operating results or the operating results of our competitors, changes in economic conditions in the market sectors in which our customers operate, notably the durable and non-durable goods manufacturing industry, which accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue for fiscal year 2017, fiscal year 2016 and fiscal year 2015, and changes in general market conditions, could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to fluctuate substantially.. <U+FEFF>. Our principal shareholders exercise significant control over us.. <U+FEFF>. We have two classes of common stock. Our Class A common stock has one vote per share and our Class B common stock has ten votes per share. As of October 16, 2017, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, his sister, certain of their family members including our President and Chief Executive Officer, and related trusts collectively owned 100% of the outstanding shares of our Class B common stock and approximately 2.5% of the outstanding shares of our Class A common stock, giving them control over approximately 73.4% of the combined voting power of our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock. Consequently, such shareholders will be in a position to elect all of the directors of the Company and to determine the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of the Company's shareholders for approval, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated by-laws, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. Because this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our shareholders, the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected.. <U+FEFF>"
