[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Success of Our Business Depends on Affiliation Fees We Receive Under Our Affiliation Agreements, the Loss of Which or Renewal of Which on Less Favorable Terms May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. Our success is dependent upon the existence and terms of our agreements with Distributors.  Existing affiliation agreements of our programming networks expire at various dates.  We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to renew these affiliation agreements or obtain terms as attractive as our existing agreements in the event of a renewal.. Affiliation fees constitute a significant majority of our revenues.  Changes in affiliation fee revenues result from a combination of changes in rates and/or changes in subscriber counts.  Reductions in the license fees that we receive per subscriber or in the number of subscribers for which we are paid, including as a result of a loss of or reduction in carriage of our programming networks, would adversely affect our affiliation fee revenue.  For example, Distributors may introduce, market and/or modify tiers of programming networks that could impact the number of subscribers that receive our programming networks, including. 7. Table of Contents. tiers of programming that may exclude our networks.  Any loss or reduction in carriage would also decrease the potential audience for our programming, which may adversely affect our advertising revenues.  See \" -  If the Rate of Decline in the Number of Subscribers to Traditional MVPD Services Increases or These Subscribers Shift to Other Services or Bundles That Do Not Include the Company's Programming Networks, There May Be a Material Negative Effect on the Company's Affiliation Revenues.\". Our affiliation agreements generally require us to meet certain content criteria, such as minimum thresholds for professional event telecasts throughout the year on our networks.  If we were unable to meet these criteria, we could become subject to remedies available to the Distributors, which may include fee reductions, rebates or refunds and/or termination of these agreements in some cases.. In addition, under certain circumstances, an existing affiliation agreement may expire and the parties may have not finalized negotiations of either a renewal of that agreement or a new agreement for certain periods of time.  In certain of these circumstances, Distributors may continue to carry the service(s) until the execution of definitive renewal or replacement agreements (or until we or the Distributor determine that carriage should cease).. Occasionally we may have disputes with Distributors over the terms of our affiliation agreements.  If not resolved through business discussions, such disputes could result in litigation or actual or threatened termination of an existing agreement.. Our business is dependent upon affiliation relationships with a limited number of Distributors.  The loss of any of our significant Distributors, the failure to renew on terms as attractive as our existing agreements (or to do so in a timely manner) or disputes with our counterparties relating to the interpretation of their agreements with us could materially negatively affect our business and results of operations.  See \" -  We Depend on a Limited Number of Distributors for a Significant Portion of Our Revenues and Further Industry Consolidation Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations.\". Our Business Faces Intense and Wide-Ranging Competition Which May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. Our business competes, in certain respects and to varying degrees, for viewers and advertisers with other programming networks, pay-per-view, video on demand, online streaming services, and other content offered by distributors.  We also compete for viewers and advertisers with content offered over the Internet, mobile media, radio, motion picture, home video and other sources of information and entertainment and advertising services.  Important competitive factors are the prices we charge for our programming networks, the quantity, quality (in particular, the performance of the sports teams whose media rights we control), the variety of the programming offered and the effectiveness of marketing efforts.. New or existing programming networks that are owned by or affiliated with broadcast networks such as NBC, ABC, CBS or Fox may have a competitive advantage over our networks in obtaining distribution through the \"bundling\" of agreements to carry those programming networks with the agreement giving the distributor the right to carry a broadcast station owned by or affiliated with the network. For example, regional sports networks affiliated with Fox and NBC are carried on certain OTT platforms that do not currently carry our networks.. The competitive environment in which our business operates may also be affected by technological developments.  It is difficult to predict the future effect of technology on many of the factors affecting our competitive position.. With respect to advertising services, factors affecting the degree and extent of competition include prices, reach and audience demographics among others.  Some of our competitors are large companies that have greater financial resources available to them than we do which could impact our viewership, and the resulting advertising revenues.. We May Not Be Able to Adapt to New Content Distribution Platforms and to Changes in Consumer Behavior Resulting From Emerging Technologies, Which May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. We must successfully adapt to technological advances in our industry, including the emergence of alternative distribution platforms.  Our ability to exploit new distribution platforms and viewing technologies may affect our ability to maintain and/or grow our business.  Emerging forms of content distribution may provide different economic models and compete with current distribution methods in ways that are not entirely predictable.  Such competition could reduce demand for our programming  networks or for the offerings of our Distributors and reduce our revenue from these sources.  Content providers (such as certain broadcast and cable networks) and new content developers, distributors and syndicators (such as Amazon and Netflix), are distributing programming directly to consumers on an OTT basis. Such direct-to-consumer OTT distribution of content may facilitate consumers eliminating or downgrading their pay television subscription, which may result in certain consumers not receiving our programming networks.  Gaming and other consoles such as Microsoft's Xbox, Sony's PlayStation, Nintendo's Wii, Apple TV, and Roku are also establishing themselves as alternative providers of video services. Such changes may impact. 8. Table of Contents. the revenues we are able to generate from our traditional distribution methods, by decreasing the viewership of our programming networks on cable and other MVPD systems which are almost entirely directed at television video delivery and/or by making advertising on our programming networks less valuable to advertisers.  If we fail to adapt our distribution methods and content to emerging technologies, our appeal to our targeted audiences might decline and there could be a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.  MSG GO, which is our live streaming and on-demand product, is available to subscribers through all of our major Distributors.  There can be no assurance that MSG GO will be able to attract a meaningful number of users.. In addition, advertising revenues could be significantly impacted by emerging technologies, given that advertising sales are dependent on audience measurement provided by third parties, and the results of audience measurement techniques can vary independent of the size of the audience for a variety of reasons, including difficulties related to the traditional statistical sampling methods, ability to measure new distribution platforms and viewing technologies, and the shifting of the marketplace to the use of measurement of different viewer behaviors, such as delayed viewing.  In addition, multiplatform campaign verification is in its infancy, and viewership on tablets, smart phones and other mobile devices, which continues to grow, is presently not measured by any one consistently applied method.  Moreover, devices that allow users to fast forward or skip programming, including commercials, are causing changes in consumer behavior that may affect the desirability of our programming networks to advertisers.  These variations and changes could have a significant effect on advertising revenues.. If the Rate of Decline in the Number of Subscribers to Traditional MVPD Services Increases or These Subscribers Shift to Other Services or Bundles That Do Not Include the Company's Programming Networks, There May Be a Material Negative Effect on the Company's Affiliation Revenues.. During the last few years, the number of subscribers to traditional MVPD services in the U.S. has been declining.  In addition, Distributors have introduced, marketed and/or modified tiers or bundles of programming that have impacted the number of subscribers that receive our programming networks, including tiers or bundles of programming that exclude our programming networks.  As a result of these factors, the Company has experienced a decrease in viewing subscribers during each of our last three fiscal years, which has adversely affected our operating results.. If traditional MVPD service offerings are not attractive to consumers due to pricing, increased competition from OTT services, increased dissatisfaction with the quality of traditional MVPD services, poor economic conditions or other factors, more consumers may (i) cancel their traditional MVPD service subscriptions or choose not to subscribe to traditional MVPD services, (ii) elect to instead subscribe to OTT services, which in some cases may be offered at a lower price-point or (iii) elect to subscribe to smaller bundles of programming which may not include our programming networks.  If the rate of decline in the number of traditional MVPD service subscribers increases or if subscribers shift to OTT services or smaller bundles of programming that do not include the Company's programming networks, this may have a material negative effect on the Company's revenues.. We Depend on a Limited Number of Distributors for a Significant Portion of Our Revenues and Further Industry Consolidation Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations.. The pay television industry is highly concentrated, with a relatively small number of distributors serving a significant percentage of pay television subscribers that receive our programming networks, thereby affording the largest distributors significant leverage in their relationship with programming networks, including us.  Substantially all of our affiliation fee revenue comes from our top five Distributors.  Further consolidation in the industry could reduce the number of distributors available to distribute our programming networks and increase the negotiating leverage of certain distributors, which could adversely affect our revenue.  In some cases, if a Distributor is acquired, the affiliation agreement of the acquiring Distributor will govern following the acquisition.  In those circumstances, the acquisition of a Distributor that is a party to one or more affiliation agreements with us on terms that are more favorable to us than that of the acquirer could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.. We Derive Substantial Revenues From the Sale of Advertising Time and Those Revenues Are Subject to a Number of Factors, Many of Which Are Beyond Our Control.. Advertising revenues depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as: (i) the health of the economy in the markets our businesses serve and in the nation as a whole; (ii) general economic trends in the advertising industry; (iii) the popularity of our programming; (iv) the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based media (such as Internet, mobile media, other programming networks, radio and newspaper); (v) shifts in consumer viewing patterns, including consumers watching more non-traditional and shorter-form video content online, and the increased use of DVRs to skip advertisements; (vi) declining consumer tolerance for commercial interruptions; (vii) an increasing shift of advertising expenditures to online and mobile offerings; (viii) increasing audience fragmentation. 9. Table of Contents. caused by increased availability of alternative forms of leisure and entertainment activities; (ix) consumer budgeting and buying patterns; (x) the extent of the distribution of our networks; and (xi) team performance.  A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers' spending priorities, which could cause our revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period. Even in the absence of a general recession or downturn in the economy, an individual business sector that tends to spend more on advertising than other sectors might be forced to reduce its advertising expenditures if that sector experiences a downturn. In such case, a reduction in advertising expenditures by such a sector may adversely affect our revenues.. The pricing and volume of advertising may be affected by shifts in spending away from more traditional media toward online and mobile offerings or towards new ways of purchasing advertising, such as through automated purchasing, dynamic advertising insertion, third parties selling local advertising spots and advertising exchanges, some or all of which may not be as advantageous to the Company as current advertising methods.. In addition, we cannot ensure that our programming will achieve favorable ratings.  Our ratings depend partly upon unpredictable and volatile factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as viewer preferences, the level of distribution of our programming, team performance, competing programming and the availability of other entertainment options.  A shift in viewer preferences could cause our advertising revenues to decline as a result of changes to the ratings for our programming and materially negatively affect our business and results of operations.  As noted below, MSG has the exclusive right and obligation to sell our advertising availabilities on our behalf for a commission and, as a result, our advertising revenues are dependent to a material extent on MSG's sales performance, subject to certain termination rights.  See \" - We Rely on MSG's Performance Under Various Agreements.\". Our Media Rights Agreements With Various Professional Sports Teams Have Varying Durations and Terms and We May Be Unable to Renew Those Agreements on Acceptable Terms or Such Rights May Be Lost for Other Reasons.. Our business is dependent upon media rights agreements with professional sports teams.  Upon expiration, we may seek renewal of these agreements and, if we do, we may be outbid by competing programming networks or others for these agreements or the renewal costs could substantially exceed our costs under the current agreements.  Even if we are able to renew such agreements, the Company's results could be adversely affected if escalations in sports programming rights costs are unmatched by increases in affiliation and advertising revenues.  In addition, one or more of these teams may seek to establish their own programming network or join one of our competitor's networks and, in certain circumstances, we may not have an opportunity to bid for the media rights.  Moreover, the value of these agreements may also be affected by various league decisions and/or league agreements that we may not be able to control, including a decision to alter the number of games played during a season.  The value of these media rights can also be affected, or we could lose such rights entirely, if a team is liquidated, undergoes reorganization in bankruptcy or relocates to an area where it is not possible or commercially feasible for us to continue to distribute games.  Any loss or diminution in the value of rights could impact the extent of the sports coverage offered by us and could materially negatively affect our business and results of operations.  In addition, our affiliation agreements typically include certain remedies in the event our networks fail to meet a minimum number of professional event telecasts, and, accordingly, any loss of rights could materially negatively affect our business and results of operations.. The Actions of the Basketball and Hockey Leagues May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. The governing bodies of the NBA and the NHL have imposed, and may impose in the future, various rules, regulations, guidelines, bulletins, directives, policies and agreements (collectively, \"League Rules\"), which could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.  For example, each league imposes rules that define the territories in which we may distribute games of the teams in the applicable league.  Changes to these rules or other League Rules, or the adoption of new League Rules, could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. Our Business is Substantially Dependent on the Popularity of the NBA and NHL Teams Whose Media Rights We Control.. Our business has historically been, and we expect will continue to be, dependent on the popularity of the NBA and NHL teams whose local media rights we control and, in varying degrees, those teams achieving on-court and on-ice success, which can generate fan enthusiasm, resulting in increased viewership and advertising revenues.  Furthermore, success in the regular season may qualify a team for participation in the post-season, which generates increased excitement and interest in the teams, which can improve viewership and advertising revenues.  In addition, if a team declines in popularity or fails to generate fan enthusiasm, this may negatively impact the terms on which our affiliate agreements are renewed.  There can be no assurance that any sports team will generate fan enthusiasm or compete in post-season play and the failure to do so could result in a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. 10. Table of Contents. We May Be Unable to Obtain Programming From Third Parties on Reasonable Terms, Which Could Lead to Higher Costs.. We rely on third parties for sports and other programming for our networks.  We compete with other providers of programming to acquire the rights to distribute such programming.  If we fail to continue to obtain sports and other programming for our networks on reasonable terms for any reason, including as a result of competition, we could be forced to incur additional costs to acquire such programming or look for alternative programming, which may have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. Our Business Depends on the Appeal of Our Programming, Which May Be Unpredictable, and Increased Programming Costs May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. Our business depends in part upon viewer preferences and audience acceptance of the programming on our networks.  These factors are often unpredictable and subject to influences that are beyond our control, such as the quality and appeal of competing programming, general economic conditions and the availability of other entertainment options.  We may not be able to successfully predict interest in proposed new programming and viewer preferences could cause new programming not to be successful or cause our existing programming to decline in popularity.  An increase in our costs associated with programming, including original programming, may materially negatively affect our business and results of operations.. Our Business Has Been Adversely Impacted and May, in the Future, Be Materially Adversely Impacted by an Economic Downturn and Financial Instability.. Our business depends upon the ability and willingness of consumers and businesses to subscribe to a package of programming that includes our networks.  In addition, our business is dependent upon advertising revenues.  As a result, instability and weakness of the U.S. and global economies and the negative effects on consumers' and businesses' discretionary spending may materially negatively affect our business and results of operations.. Weather or Other Conditions Which Are Outside Our Control May Disrupt Our Programming and May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. Weather or other conditions, including natural disasters, acts of terrorism and similar events, which are outside our control may prevent us or our Distributors from providing our programming to customers, may reduce advertising expenditures and may have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. We Are Subject to Governmental Regulation and Our Failure to Comply With These Regulations May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations.  Some FCC regulations apply to us directly and other FCC regulations, although imposed on distributors, affect programming networks indirectly. See \"Item 1. Business  -  Regulation.\"  Legislative enactments, court actions, and federal regulatory proceedings could materially affect our programming business by modifying the rates, terms, and conditions under which we offer our programming networks to distributors and the public, or otherwise materially affect the range of our activities or strategic business alternatives.  We cannot predict the likelihood or results of any such legislative, judicial, or regulatory actions.  Furthermore, to the extent that regulations and laws, either presently in force or proposed, hinder or stimulate the growth of distributors, our business could be affected.  The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, amend, or repeal, laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect our business.  The regulation of distributors is subject to the political process and has been in constant flux over the past two decades.  Further material changes in the law and regulatory requirements must be anticipated.  Our business and our results of operations may be materially negatively affected by future legislation, new regulation or deregulation.. Our business is, and may in the future be, subject to a variety of other laws and regulations, including licensing requirements; working conditions, labor, immigration and employment laws; and privacy laws.. Our failure to comply with applicable governmental laws and regulations, or to maintain necessary permits or licenses, could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. We Face Continually Evolving Cybersecurity and Similar Risks, Which Could Result in the Disclosure of Confidential Information, Disruption of Our Business, Damage to Our Brands and Reputation, Legal Exposure and Financial Losses.. Through our operations, we may collect, and store, including by electronic means, certain personal information that is provided to us, including through registration on our websites, mobile applications or otherwise in communication or interaction with us.  These activities require the use of online services and centralized data storage, including through third party service providers. Data maintained in electronic form is subject to the risk of intrusion, tampering, theft or other malicious activity.  Our ability to. 11. Table of Contents. safeguard such personal information and other confidential information, including information regarding the Company and our Distributors, advertisers and employees, is important to our business.  We take these matters seriously and take significant steps to protect our stored information.  These protections are costly and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated.  Despite our efforts, the risks of a data breach cannot be entirely eliminated and our information technology and other systems that maintain and transmit consumer, Distributor, advertiser, Company, employee and other confidential information may be compromised. This could compromise the security of information on our network, or that of a third-party service provider, including MSG to which we outsource information technology support, due to employee error, computer malware or ransomware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks, or otherwise.  Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or users to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to data.  As a result, such personal and/or confidential information may be lost, disclosed, accessed or taken without their consent, and the security of our other confidential information may be compromised.  See  - \"We Rely on MSG's Performance Under Various Agreements\" for a discussion of services MSG performs on our behalf.. If our electronically stored data is compromised, our ability to conduct business may be interrupted or impaired, we may lose profitable opportunities or the value of those opportunities may be diminished and we may lose revenue as a result of unlicensed use of our intellectual property.  Further, a penetration of our network security or other misappropriation or misuse of personal or confidential information could subject us to business and litigation risk, including costs associated with such misappropriation or misuse, and damage our reputation, which could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. We Have Substantial Indebtedness and Are Highly Leveraged, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business.. Immediately prior to the Distribution we incurred a significant amount of debt, substantially all of the proceeds of which were contributed to MSG.  We may also continue to incur additional debt in the future.  We are highly leveraged and expect to continue to be highly leveraged.  As a result, our interest and principal payments on our borrowings are significant in relation to our revenues and cash flows.  These payments reduce our earnings and cash available for other potential business purposes.  This leverage also exposes us to significant risk by limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business (whether through competitive pressure or otherwise), the cable and telecommunications industries, and the economy at large.  Although our cash flows could decrease in these scenarios, our required payments in respect of indebtedness would not decrease.. In addition, our ability to make payments on, or repay or refinance, such debt, and to fund our operating and capital expenditures, depends largely upon our future operating performance.  Our future operating performance, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.  Furthermore, our interest expense could increase if interest rates increase because our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates or to the extent we have to refinance existing debt with higher cost debt.. We May Require Additional Financing to Fund Our Ongoing Operations and Capital Expenditures, the Availability of Which is Highly Uncertain.. The capital and credit markets can experience volatility and disruption.  Such markets can exert extreme downward pressure on stock prices and upward pressure on the cost of new debt capital and can severely restrict credit availability for most issuers.. Although we have a revolving credit facility (see \"Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  -  Liquidity and Capital Resources  -  Financing Agreements\"), our ability to draw on such facility will depend on our ability to meet certain financial tests and other conditions.  In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any such facility in the future or raise any required additional capital or do so on favorable terms.  Depending upon conditions in the financial markets and/or the Company's financial performance, we may not be able to raise capital on favorable terms, or at all.. Organized Labor Matters May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. Our business is substantially dependent upon the efforts of unionized workers. As of June 30, 2018, approximately 75% of our employees are subject to CBAs.  Any labor disputes, such as strikes or lockouts, with the unions with which we have collective bargaining agreements, could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations by impacting our ability to produce or present programming.. In addition, we may be impacted by union relations of the NBA and the NHL.  Both the NBA and the NHL have experienced labor difficulties in the past and may have labor issues, such as players' strikes or management lockouts, in the future.  For example, the NBA has experienced labor difficulties, including lockouts during the 1998-99 and 2011-12 seasons, resulting in a. 12. Table of Contents. shortened regular season in each case.  The NHL has also experienced labor difficulties, including lockouts during the 1994-95 and 2012-13 seasons, resulting in a shortened regular season in each case, and a lockout beginning in September 2004, which resulted in the cancellation of the entire 2004-05 NHL season.. The Unavailability of Satellites, Facilities, Systems and/or Software Upon Which We Rely May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. We use satellite and other systems to transmit our programming services to Distributors.  The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites, and downlinks.  Notwithstanding certain back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted, including as a result of events that impair uplinks, downlinks or transmission facilities or the impairment of satellite or terrestrial facilities.  Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming, and their continued availability may depend upon a variety of factors including business conditions, technology issues, and changes in law or regulation.  If a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner.  In addition, we rely upon various internal and third-party systems or software in the operation of our business, including, with respect to database, human resource management, and financial systems.  From time to time, certain of these arrangements may not be covered by long-term agreements.  In addition, such distribution facilities and/or internal or third party services, systems or software could be adversely impacted by cybersecurity threats including unauthorized breaches.  The failure or unavailability of distribution facilities or these internal and third-party services, systems or software, depending upon its severity and duration, could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. We May Become Subject to Infringement or Other Claims Relating to Our Content or Technology.. From time to time, third parties may assert against us alleged intellectual property (e.g., copyright, trademark and patent) or other claims relating to our programming, technologies, digital content or other content, some of which may be important to our business.  In addition, our programming could potentially subject us to claims of defamation or similar types of allegations.  Any such claims, regardless of their merit, could cause us to incur significant costs.  In addition, if we are unable to continue use of certain intellectual property rights, our business and results of operations could be materially negatively impacted.. Theft of Our Intellectual Property May Have a Material Negative Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations.. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to maintain and monetize our intellectual property rights to our programming, technologies, digital content and other content that is material to our business.  Theft of our intellectual property, including content, could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations because it may reduce the revenue that we are able to receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, undermine lawful distribution channels, limit our ability to control the marketing of our content and inhibit our ability to recoup or profit from the costs incurred to create such content.  Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or protect our trade secrets.  Any litigation of this nature, regardless of the outcome, could cause us to incur significant costs.. We May Pursue Acquisitions and Other Strategic Investments to Complement or Expand Our Business That May Not Be Successful.. We may explore opportunities to purchase or invest in other businesses or assets that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities, including opportunities that may differ from the Company's current business.  Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve risks, including the commitment of significant capital, the incurrence of indebtedness, the payment of advances, the diversion of management's attention and resources from our existing business to develop and integrate the acquired or combined business, the inability to successfully integrate such business or assets into our operations, litigation or other claims in connection with acquisitions or against companies we invest in or acquire, our lack of control over joint venture companies and other minority investments, the risk of not achieving the intended results and the exposure to losses if the underlying transactions or ventures are not successful.  Any such risks could result in a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.. We Are Controlled by the Dolan Family.  As a Result of Their Control, the Dolan Family Has the Ability to Prevent or Cause a Change in Control or Approve, Prevent or Influence Certain Actions by the Company.. We have two classes of common stock:. • Class A Common Stock, which is entitled to one vote per share and is entitled collectively to elect 25% of our Board of Directors.. • Class B Common Stock, which is entitled to ten votes per share and is entitled collectively to elect the remaining 75% of our Board of Directors.. 13. Table of Contents. As of July 31, 2018, the Dolan family, including trusts for the benefit of members of the Dolan family (collectively, the \"Dolan Family Group\"), collectively own all of our outstanding Class B Common Stock and approximately 3.2% (inclusive of options exercisable within 60 days of the date hereof) of our outstanding Class A Common Stock, and as a result hold approximately 70.0% of the total voting power of all our outstanding common stock.  The members of the Dolan Family Group holding Class B Common Stock have executed a stockholders agreement (the \"Stockholders Agreement\") that has the effect of causing the voting power of the holders of our Class B Common Stock to be cast as a block with respect to all matters to be voted on by holders of Class B Common Stock.  Under the Stockholders Agreement, the shares of Class B Common Stock owned by members of the Dolan Family Group are to be voted on all matters in accordance with the determination of the Dolan Family Committee, except that the decisions of the Dolan Family Committee are non-binding with respect to the Class B Common Stock owned by certain Dolan family trusts that collectively own 40.5% of the outstanding Class B Common Stock (\"Excluded Trusts\").  The \"Dolan Family Committee\" consists of Charles F. Dolan and his six children, James L. Dolan, Thomas C. Dolan, Patrick F. Dolan, Kathleen M. Dolan, Deborah A. Dolan-Sweeney, and Marianne Dolan Weber.  The Dolan Family Committee generally acts by a majority vote, except that approval of a going-private transaction must be approved by a two-thirds vote and approval of a change-in-control transaction must be approved by not less than all but one vote.  The voting members of the Dolan Family Committee are James L. Dolan, Thomas C. Dolan, Kathleen M. Dolan, Deborah A. Dolan-Sweeney, and Marianne Dolan Weber, with each member having one vote other than James L. Dolan, who has two votes.  Because James L. Dolan has two votes, he has the ability to block Dolan Family Committee approval of any Company change in control transaction.  Shares of Class B Common Stock owned by Excluded Trusts are to be voted on all matters in accordance with the determination of the Excluded Trusts holding a majority of the Class B Common Stock held by all Excluded Trusts, except in the case of a vote on a going-private transaction or a change in control transaction, in which case a vote of trusts holding two-thirds of the Class B Common Stock owned by Excluded Trusts is required.. The Dolan Family Group is able to prevent a change in control of our Company and no person interested in acquiring us will be able to do so without obtaining the consent of the Dolan Family Group.  The Dolan Family Group, by virtue of their stock ownership, have the power to elect all of our directors subject to election by holders of Class B Common Stock and are able collectively to control stockholder decisions on matters on which holders of all classes of our common stock vote together as a single class.  These matters could include the amendment of some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and the approval of fundamental corporate transactions.. In addition, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding shares of the Class B Common Stock, voting separately as a class, is required to approve:. • the authorization or issuance of any additional shares of Class B Common Stock, and. • any amendment, alteration or repeal of any of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation that adversely affects the powers, preferences or rights of the Class B Common Stock.. As a result, the Dolan Family Group also has the power to prevent such issuance or amendment.. The Dolan Family Group also controls MSG and AMC Networks Inc. (\"AMC Networks\").. We Have Elected to Be a \"Controlled Company\" for New York Stock Exchange Purposes Which Allows Us Not to Comply With Certain of the Corporate Governance Rules of New York Stock Exchange.. Members of the Dolan Family Group have entered into the Stockholders Agreement relating, among other things, to the voting of their shares of our Class B Common Stock.  As a result, we are a \"controlled company\" under the corporate governance rules of New York Stock Exchange (\"NYSE\").  Our Board of Directors has elected for the Company to be treated as a \"controlled company\" under NYSE corporate governance rules and not to comply with the NYSE requirement for a majority independent board of directors and for an independent corporate governance and nominating committee because of our status as a controlled company.  Nevertheless, our Board of Directors has elected to comply with the NYSE requirement for an independent compensation committee.. Future Stock Sales, Including as a Result of the Exercise of Registration Rights by Certain of Our Stockholders, Could Adversely Affect the Trading Price of Our Class A Common Stock.. Certain parties have registration rights covering a portion of our shares.  We have entered into registration rights agreements with Charles F. Dolan, members of his family, certain Dolan family interests and the Dolan Family Foundation that provide them with \"demand\" and \"piggyback\" registration rights with respect to approximately 15 million shares of Class A Common Stock, including shares issuable upon conversion of shares of Class B Common Stock.  Sales of a substantial number of shares of Class A Common Stock could adversely affect the market price of the Class A Common Stock and could impair our future ability to raise capital through an offering of our equity securities.. 14. Table of Contents. We Share Certain Key Executives and Directors With MSG and/or AMC Networks, Which Means Those Executives Do Not Devote Their Full Time and Attention to Our Affairs and the Overlap May Give Rise to Conflicts.. Our Executive Chairman, James L. Dolan, also serves as Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of MSG, and our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, Lawrence J. Burian, also serves as the Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of MSG.  As a result, not all of our executive officers devote their full time and attention to the Company's affairs.  In addition, our Vice Chairman, Gregg G. Seibert, also serves as the Vice Chairman of both MSG and AMC Networks, and one of our directors, Charles F. Dolan, is the Executive Chairman of AMC Networks.  Furthermore, six (including James L. Dolan) members of our Board of Directors are also directors of MSG and six (including James L. Dolan) members of our Board of Directors are also directors of AMC Networks concurrently with their service on our Board of Directors.  The overlapping officers and directors may have actual or apparent conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting each company.  For example, the potential for a conflict of interest exists when we on the one hand, and MSG or AMC Networks on the other hand, look at certain acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for more than one of the companies.  Also, conflicts may arise if there are issues or disputes under the commercial arrangements that exist between MSG or AMC Networks and us.  In addition, certain of our directors and officers hold MSG and/or AMC Networks stock, performance stock units, restricted stock units, and/or or cash performance awards.  These ownership interests could create actual, apparent or potential conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for our Company and MSG or AMC Networks.  See \"Certain Relationships and Potential Conflicts of Interest\" in our Proxy Statement filed with the SEC on October 27, 2017 and \"Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions  -  Certain Relationships and Potential Conflicts of Interest\" in MSG's registration statement on Form 10 filed with the SEC on September 11, 2015 for a discussion of certain procedures we instituted to help ameliorate such potential conflicts with MSG and/or AMC Networks that may arise.. Our Overlapping Directors and Executive Officers With MSG and/or AMC Networks May Result in the Diversion of Corporate Opportunities and Other Conflicts to MSG and/or AMC Networks and Provisions in Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation May Provide Us No Remedy in That Circumstance.. The Company acknowledges that directors and officers of the Company may also be serving as directors, officers, employees, consultants or agents of MSG and/or AMC Networks and their respective subsidiaries and that the Company may engage in material business transactions with such entities.  The Company's Board of Directors has adopted resolutions putting in place policies and arrangements whereby the Company has renounced its rights to certain business opportunities and no director or officer of the Company who is also serving as a director, officer, employee, consultant or agent of MSG and/or AMC Networks and their subsidiaries will be liable to the Company or its stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty that would otherwise occur by reason of the fact that any such individual directs a corporate opportunity (other than certain limited types of opportunities set forth in such policies) to MSG and/or AMC Networks or any of their subsidiaries instead of the Company, or does not refer or communicate information regarding such corporate opportunities to the Company.. We Could Have Significant Tax Liability as a Result of the Distribution.. We have obtained an opinion from Sullivan & Cromwell LLP substantially to the effect that, among other things, the Distribution qualifies as a tax-free distribution under the Internal Revenue Code, (the \"Code\").  The opinion is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service (the \"IRS\") or the courts.  Additionally, we have received a private letter ruling from the IRS concluding that certain limited aspects of the Distribution will not prevent the Distribution from satisfying certain requirements for tax-free treatment under the Code.  The opinion and the private letter ruling rely on factual representations and reasonable assumptions, which if incorrect or inaccurate may jeopardize the ability to rely on such opinion and letter ruling.. If the Distribution does not qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then, in general, we would be subject to tax as if we had sold the MSG common stock in a taxable sale for its fair value.  MSG stockholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a distribution equal to the fair value of MSG common stock that was distributed to them, which generally would be treated first as a taxable dividend to the extent of our earnings and profits, then as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of each holder's tax basis in its MSG common stock, and thereafter as capital gain with respect to any remaining value.  It is expected that the amount of any such taxes to MSG stockholders and us would be substantial.. We Rely on MSG's Performance Under Various Agreements.. We have various agreements with MSG, including a distribution agreement, a tax disaffiliation agreement, a services agreement, an employee matters agreement, an advertising sales representation agreement, a trademark license agreement and media rights agreements, as well as certain other arrangements.  These agreements govern our relationship with MSG subsequent to the Distribution and include the allocation of employee benefits, taxes and certain other liabilities and obligations attributable to periods prior to the Distribution.  In connection with the Distribution, we agreed to provide MSG with indemnities with respect to liabilities arising out of our businesses and MSG agreed to provide us with indemnities with respect. 15. Table of Contents. to liabilities arising out of the businesses we transferred to MSG.  These agreements also include arrangements with respect to support services and a number of on-going commercial relationships, including our production and exhibition of Knicks and Rangers games, the sale of our advertising inventory by MSG and our use of the \"MSG\" brand.  The advertising sales representation agreement, services agreement and trademark licensing agreement are each subject to potential termination by MSG in the event MSG and the Company are no longer affiliates.. MSG provides certain business services that were performed by internal resources prior to the Distribution, such as information technology, accounts payable, payroll, tax, certain legal functions, human resources, insurance and risk management, investor relations, corporate communications, benefit plan administration and reporting, and internal audit functions.  These services include the collection and storage of certain personal information regarding employees and/or customers as well as information regarding the Company and our Distributors and advertisers.  See also \" -  We Face Continually Evolving Cybersecurity and Similar Risks, Which Could Result in the Disclosure of Confidential Information, Disruption of Our Business, Damage to Our Brands and Reputation, Legal Exposure and Financial Losses\".  The services agreement expired on June 30, 2018.  In connection with the expiration of the services agreement, the Company entered into an interim agreement with MSG, pursuant to which each party provides the other with the services described above on the same terms as provided in the services agreement on an interim basis while a new agreement is finalized.. The media rights agreements provide us with the exclusive media rights to Knicks and Rangers games.  Rights fees under these media rights agreements amounted to approximately $140.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2018.  The rights fees increase annually and are subject to adjustments in certain circumstances, including if MSG does not make available a minimum number of games in any year.. Our advertising sales representation agreement with MSG, which has a term through June 30, 2022, provides for MSG to act as our advertising sales representative and includes the exclusive right and obligation to sell certain advertising availabilities on our behalf for a commission. All of our advertising sales personnel were transferred to MSG in connection with the Distribution.  As a result of this arrangement, we depend on MSG's performance for the sale of our advertising. The advertising sales representation agreement is subject to certain termination rights, including MSG's right to terminate if MSG and the Company are no longer affiliates and the Company's right to terminate if certain sales thresholds are not met unless MSG elects to pay the Company the shortfall.. The Company and MSG each rely on the other to perform its obligations under all of these agreements.  If MSG were to breach, be unable to satisfy its material obligations under these agreements, including a failure to satisfy its indemnification or other financial obligations, or these agreements otherwise terminate or expire and we do not enter into replacement agreements, we could suffer operational difficulties and/or significant losses."
