[1] "Item 1A.    RISK FACTORS. Our end markets are subject to risks relating to general economic cycles and conditions, which affect demand for our products and services and may adversely affect our financial results.. Our primary end markets are repair and replacement of water infrastructure, driven by municipal spending, and new water infrastructure installation driven by new residential construction.  Sustained uncertainty about any of these end markets could cause our distributors and end use customers to delay purchasing, or determine not to purchase, our products or services.  General economic and other factors, including unemployment levels, energy costs, the state of the credit markets (including municipal bonds, mortgages, home equity loans and consumer credit) and other factors beyond our control, could adversely affect our sales, profitability and cash flows.. A significant portion of our business depends on spending for water and wastewater infrastructure construction activity.. A significant portion of our business depends on local, state and federal spending on water and wastewater infrastructure upgrade, repair and replacement.  Funds for water and wastewater infrastructure repair and replacement typically come from local taxes, water fees and water rates.  State and local governments and private water entities that do not adequately budget for capital expenditures when setting tax rates, water rates and water fees, as applicable, may be unable to pay for water infrastructure repair and replacement if they do not have access to other funding sources.  Governments and private water entities may have limited abilities to increase taxes, water fees or water rates, as applicable.  It is not unusual for water and wastewater projects to be delayed and rescheduled for a number of reasons, including changes in project priorities and difficulties in complying with environmental and other governmental regulations.  In addition, reductions or delays in federal spending related to water or wastewater infrastructure could adversely affect state or local projects and may adversely affect our financial results.. Some state and local governments have placed or may place significant restrictions on the use of water by their constituents.  These types of water use restrictions may lead to reduced water revenues by private water entities, municipalities or other governmental agencies, which could similarly affect funding decisions for water-related projects.. Poor economic conditions may cause states, municipalities or private water entities to receive lower than anticipated revenues, which may lead to reduced or delayed funding for water infrastructure projects.  Even if favorable economic conditions exist, water infrastructure owners may choose not to address deferred infrastructure needs due to a variety of political factors or competing spending priorities.. Low levels of spending for water and wastewater infrastructure construction activity could adversely affect our sales, profitability and cash flows.. 8. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Residential construction activity is important to our business and adverse conditions or sustained uncertainty regarding this market could adversely affect our financial results.. Because a significant portion of our business depends on new water and wastewater infrastructure spending, which in turn largely depends on residential construction, our financial performance depends significantly on the stability and growth of the residential construction market.  This market depends on a variety of factors beyond our control, including household formation, consumer confidence, interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing, as well as the mix between single and multifamily construction and ultimately the extent to which new construction leads to the development of raw land.  Adverse conditions or sustained uncertainty regarding the residential construction market could adversely affect our sales, profitability and cash flows.. Our business depends on a small group of key customers for a significant portion of our sales.. Infrastructure sells products primarily to distributors and our success depends on these outside parties operating their businesses profitably and effectively.  These distributors' profitability and effectiveness can vary significantly from company to company and from region to region within the same company.  Further, our largest distributors generally also carry competing products.  We may fail to align our operations with successful distributors in any given market.. Distributors in our industry have experienced consolidation in recent years.  If such consolidation continues, our distributors could be acquired by other distributors who have better relationships with our competitors and pricing and profit margin pressure may intensify.  Pricing and profit margin pressure or the loss of any one of our key distributors in any market could adversely affect our operating results.. Technologies primarily sells directly to end users.  Some of these customers represent a relatively high concentration of net sales.  Over time, expected growth in sales is expected to lessen the significance of individual customers.  In the short term, net sales could decline if existing significant customers do not continue to purchase our products or services and new customers are not obtained to replace them.. Strong competition could adversely affect prices and demand for our products and services, which would adversely affect our operating results.. The U.S. and Canadian markets for water infrastructure and flow control products are very competitive.  While there are only a few competitors for most of our product and service offerings, many of our competitors are well-established companies with strong brand recognition.  We compete on the basis of a variety of factors, including the quality, price and innovation of our products, services and service levels.  Our ability to retain our customers in the face of competition depends on our ability to market our products and services to our customers and end users effectively.. The U.S. markets for water metering products and systems are highly competitive.  Our primary competitors benefit from strong market positions and many end users are slow to transition to new products or new brands.  Our ability to gain customers depends on our technological advancements and ability to market our products and services to our customers and end users effectively.. In addition to competition from North American companies, we face the threat of competition from outside of North America.  The intensity of competition from these companies is affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against their local currencies, the cost to ship competitive products into North America and the availability of trade remedies, if any. Competition may also increase as a result of U.S. competitors shifting their operations to lower-cost countries or otherwise reducing their costs.. Our competitors may reduce the prices of their products or services, improve their quality, improve their functionality or enhance their marketing or sales activities.  Any of these potential developments could adversely affect our prices and demand for our products and services.. The long-term success of our newer products and services, such as smart metering and leak detection and pipe condition assessment in Technologies, depends on market acceptance and our ability to manage the risks associated with the introduction of new products and systems.. Technologies' smart metering and leak detection and pipe condition assessment products and services have much less market history than many of Infrastructure's products.  Our investments in smart metering have primarily focused on the market for AMI and have been based on our belief that water utilities will transition over time from traditional manually-read meters to automatically-read meters.  The market for AMI is relatively new and continues to evolve, and the U.S. markets for water meter products and systems are highly competitive.  Water utilities have traditionally been slow adopters of new technology and may. 9. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. not adopt AMI as quickly as we expect, due, in part, to the substantial investment related to installation of AMI systems.  The strong market positions of our primary competitors may also slow the adoption of our products.  Similarly, the adoption of our leak detection and pipe condition assessment products and services depends on the willingness of our customers to invest in new product and service offerings, and the pace of adoption may be slower than we expect.  If the market for AMI develops more slowly than we expect or if our new leak detection and pipe condition assessment products and services fail to gain market acceptance, our opportunity to grow these businesses will be limited.. In addition, the success of our new products and systems will depend on our ability to manage the risks associated with their introduction, including the risk that new products and systems may have quality or other defects or deficiencies in their early stages that result in their failure to satisfy performance or reliability requirements.  Our success will depend in part on our ability to manage these risks, including costs associated with manufacturing, installation, maintenance and warranties.  These challenges can be costly and technologically challenging, and we cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect they may have.  For example, during the quarter ended March 30, 2017, we recorded a discrete warranty expense of $9.8 million associated with certain radio products that Technologies produced between 2011 and 2014, as described more fully in Note 17. to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  Failure to successfully manage these challenges could result in lost revenue, significant warranty and other expenses, and harm to our reputation.. We may not realize the expected benefits from our strategic reorganization plans.. During the quarter ended September 30, 2017, we announced our strategic reorganization plan designed to accelerate our product innovation and revenue growth.  In particular, we reconfigured our divisional structure around products, with five business teams that have line and cross-functional responsibility for managing distinct product portfolios.  We believe the new organizational structure will be better aligned with business needs and generate greater efficiencies.. Activities under the plan were initiated in the fourth quarter of 2017, and are expected to be completed in 2018.  As a result of the restructuring and reorganization, we expect cost reductions of approximately $7 million annually, which includes headcount reduction and lower professional fees and other expenses, and takes into account the hiring and alignment of new administrative talent.. These measures, however, could yield unintended consequences, such as distraction of our management and employees, business disruption, inability to attract or retain key personnel, and reduced employee productivity, which could negatively affect our business, sales, financial condition and results of operations.  We expect to incur about $11 million in restructuring charges associated with the reorganization.  We cannot guarantee that the activities under the restructuring and reorganization activities will result in the desired efficiencies and estimated cost savings.. Our business strategy includes developing, acquiring and investing in companies and technologies that broaden our product portfolio or complement our existing business, which could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources and adversely affect our operating results.. We will continue to evaluate the development or acquisition of strategic businesses, technologies and product lines with the potential to strengthen our industry position, enhance our existing set of product and service offerings, or enter new markets.  We may be unable to identify or successfully complete suitable acquisitions in the future and completed acquisitions may not be successful.. Acquisitions and technology investments may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These types of transactions involve numerous other risks, including:. • Diversion of management time and attention from existing operations;. • Difficulties in integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business or into our compliance and control programs;. • Working with partners or other ownership structures with shared decision-making authority (our interests and other ownership interests may be inconsistent);. • Difficulties in obtaining and verifying relevant information regarding a business or technology prior to the consummation of the transaction, including the identification and assessment of liabilities, claims or other circumstances, including those relating to intellectual property claims, that could result in litigation or regulatory exposure;. • Assumptions of liabilities that exceed our assessed amounts;. 10. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. • Verifying the financial statements and other business information of an acquired business;. • Inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms;. • Potential loss of key employees, contractual relationships or customers;. • Increased operating expenses related to the acquired businesses or technologies;. • The failure of new technologies, products or services to gain market acceptance with acceptable profit margins;. • Entering new markets in which we have little or no experience or in which competitors may have stronger market positions;. • Dilution of interests of holders of our common shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities; and. • Inability to achieve expected synergies.. Any acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business or financial condition, as they may not be successful and may ultimately result in impairment charges.. Inefficient or ineffective allocation of capital could adversely affect our operating results and/or stockholder value.. Our goal is to invest capital to maximize our overall long-term returns.  This includes spending on capital projects, such as developing or acquiring strategic businesses, technologies and product lines with the potential to strengthen our industry position, enhancing our existing set of product and service offerings, or entering new markets, as well as periodically returning value to our stockholders through share repurchases and dividends.  To a large degree, capital efficiency reflects how well we manage key risks.  The actions taken to address specific risks may affect how well we manage the more general risk of capital efficiency.  If we do not properly allocate our capital, we may fail to produce optimal financial results and we may experience a reduction in stockholder value, including increased volatility in our stock price.. Our reliance on vendors for certain products, some of which are single-source or limited source suppliers, could harm our business by adversely affecting product availability, reliability or cost.. We maintain several single-source or limited-source supplier relationships with manufacturers, including some outside of the United States.  If the supply of a critical single- or limited-source product is delayed or curtailed, we may not be able to ship the related products in desired quantities or in a timely manner.  Even where multiple sources of supply are available, qualification of the alternative suppliers and establishment of reliable supplies could result in delays and a possible loss of sales, which could harm our operating results.. These relationships reduce our direct control over production.  Our reliance on these vendors subjects us to a greater risk of shortages, and reduced control over delivery schedules of products, as well as a greater risk of increases in product costs.  In instances where we stock lower levels of product inventories, a disruption in product availability could harm our financial performance and our ability to satisfy customer needs.  In addition, defective products from these manufacturers could reduce product reliability and harm our reputation.. A disruption in our supply chain or other factors impacting the distribution of our products could adversely affect our business.. A disruption within our logistics or supply chain network at any of the freight companies that deliver us components for our manufacturing operations in the United States or ship our fully-assembled products to our customers could adversely affect our business and result in lost sales or harm to our reputation.  Our supply chain is dependent on third party ocean-going container ships, rail, barge and trucking systems and, therefore, disruption in these logistics services because of weather-related problems, strikes, bankruptcies or other events could adversely affect our financial performance and financial condition, negatively impacting sales, profitability and cash flows.. Transportation costs are relatively high for most of our products.. Transportation costs can be an important factor in a customer's purchasing decision.  Many of our products are big, bulky and heavy, which tend to increase transportation costs.  We also have relatively few manufacturing sites, which tends to increase transportation distances to our customers and costs.  High transportation costs could make our products less competitive compared to similar or alternative products offered by competitors.. 11. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Normal operations at our key manufacturing facilities may be interrupted.. Some of our key products, including fire hydrants and iron gate valves, are manufactured at single or few manufacturing facilities that depend on critical pieces of heavy equipment that cannot be economically moved to other locations.  We are therefore limited in our ability to shift production among locations.  The operations at our manufacturing facilities may be interrupted or impaired by various operating risks, including, but not limited to:. • Catastrophic events, such as fires, floods, explosions, natural disasters, severe weather or other similar occurrences;. • Interruptions in the delivery of raw materials or other manufacturing inputs;. • Adverse government regulations;. • Equipment breakdowns or failures;. • Information systems failures;. • Violations of our permit requirements or revocation of permits;. • Releases of pollutants and hazardous substances to air, soil, surface water or ground water;. • Shortages of equipment or spare parts; and. • Labor disputes.. The occurrence of any of these events may impair our production capabilities and adversely affect our sales, profitability and cash flows.. Any inability to protect our intellectual property or our failure to effectively defend against intellectual property infringement claims could adversely affect our competitive position.. Our business depends on our technology and expertise, which were largely developed internally and are not subject to statutory protection.  We rely on a combination of patent protection, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets protection, employee and third-party confidentiality agreements and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights.  The measures that we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not adequately deter infringement, misappropriation or independent development of our technology, and they may not prevent an unauthorized party from obtaining or using information or intellectual property that we regard as proprietary or keep others from using brand names similar to our own.  The disclosure, misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property could harm our competitive position.  In addition, our actions to enforce our rights may result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and other resources.  We may also be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from time to time, which may result in additional expenses and diverting resources to respond to these claims.  Finally, for those products in our portfolio that rely on patent protection, once a patent has expired the product is more subject to competition.  Products under patent protection potentially generate significantly higher revenue and earnings than those not protected by patents.  If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights or register new patents, our competitive position could suffer, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. If we do not successfully maintain our information and technology networks, including the security of those networks, our operations could be disrupted and unanticipated increases in costs and/or decreases in revenues could result.. We rely on various information technology systems, some of which are controlled by outside service providers, to manage key aspects of our operations.  The proper functioning of our information technology systems is important to the successful operation of our business.  If critical information technology systems fail, or are otherwise unavailable, our ability to manufacture products, process orders, track credit risk, identify business opportunities, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable, pay expenses and otherwise manage our business would be adversely affected.. We depend on the Internet and our information technology infrastructure for electronic communications among our locations around the world and between our personnel and suppliers and customers.  Security breaches of this infrastructure can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information.  If we or our service providers are unable to prevent these breaches, our operations could be disrupted or we may suffer financial, reputational or other harm because of lost or misappropriated information.. 12. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. We may fail to effectively manage confidential data, which could harm our reputation, result in substantial additional costs and subject us to litigation.. As we grow our Technologies businesses, we continue to accumulate increasing volumes of customer data. In addition, we store personal information in connection with our human resources operations.  Our efforts to protect this information may be unsuccessful due to employee errors or malfeasance, technical malfunctions, the actions of third parties (such as cyber attack) or other factors.  If we are unable to protect personal data, it could be accessed or disclosed improperly, which could expose us to liability, harm our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our products and services.  The regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and privacy is increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs.. We are subject to a variety of claims, investigations and litigation that could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our reputation.. In the normal course of our business, we are subject to claims and lawsuits, including from time to time claims for damages related to product liability and warranties, investigations by governmental agencies, litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights and litigation related to employee matters and commercial disputes.  Defending these lawsuits and becoming involved in these investigations may divert our management's attention, and may cause us to incur significant expenses.  In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards, penalties or settlements, or become subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  If we were required to participate in a product recall or take other action to address a product liability or other claim, our reputation could be harmed.  Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposures.  See \"Item 1. BUSINESS - Regulatory and Environmental Matters,\" \"Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS - Environmental,\" \"Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - Contingencies\" and Note 17. of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.. We are subject to stringent environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that impose significant compliance costs. Any failure to satisfy these laws and regulations may adversely affect us.. We are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, health and safety and incur significant capital and other expenditures to comply with these requirements.  Failure to comply with any environmental, health or safety requirements could result in the assessment of damages, the imposition of penalties, suspension of production, changes to equipment or processes or a cessation of operations at our facilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.  Because these laws are complex, subject to change and may be applied retroactively, we cannot predict with certainty the extent of our future liabilities with respect to environmental, health and safety matters and whether they will be material.. In addition, certain statutes such as CERCLA may impose joint and several liability for the costs of remedial investigations and actions on entities that generated waste, arranged for disposal of waste, transported to or selected the disposal sites and the past and present owners and operators of such sites.  All such PRPs (or any one of them, including us) may be required to bear all of such costs regardless of fault, the legality of the original disposal or ownership of the disposal site.  As a result, we may be required to conduct investigations and perform remedial activities at current and former operating and manufacturing sites where we have been, or in the future could be, named a PRP with respect to such environmental liabilities, any of which could require us to incur material costs.  The final remediation costs of these environmental sites may exceed current estimated costs, and additional sites in the future may require material remediation expenses.  If actual expenditures exceed our estimates, our results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. See \"Item 1. BUSINESS - Regulatory and Environmental Matters,\" \"Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS - Environmental,\" \"Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - Contingencies\" and Note 17. of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.. 13. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. We may have substantial additional liability for federal income tax allegedly owed by Walter Energy.. We were spun-off from Walter Industries, Inc. on December 14, 2006.  Walter Industries, Inc. subsequently changed its name to Walter Energy, Inc. (\"Walter Energy\").  Under federal tax rules, each member of a consolidated group for federal income tax purposes is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of each other member of the consolidated group for any year in which it is a member of the group at any time during such year.  In other words, each member of Walter Energy's consolidated tax group, which included us (and our subsidiaries) through the date of our spin-off from Walter Energy (i.e., December 14, 2006), is jointly and severally liable for the federal income tax liability of each other member of Walter Energy's consolidated group for any year in which it is a member of the group.  Accordingly, we could be liable in the event any such liability is incurred, and not discharged, by any other member of Walter Energy's consolidated group for any period during which we were included in the Walter Energy consolidated group.. A dispute currently exists with regard to federal income taxes for years 1980 to 1994 and 1999 to 2001 allegedly owed by the Walter Energy consolidated group.  As described above, because we were a member of Walter Energy's consolidated group during these years, we are jointly and severally liable for any final tax determination with respect to these years, which means that in the event Walter Energy is unable to pay any amounts owed, we would be liable.. Walter Energy filed a petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in July 2015.  In February 2017, the Chapter 11 case was converted to a liquidation proceeding under Chapter 7 of the Code.  We continue to monitor these proceedings to determine whether we could be liable for all or a portion of any federal income tax liability resulting from this dispute if it is incurred, and not discharged, for any period during which we were included in the Walter Energy consolidated group.  Our liability, if any, relating to the tax-related liabilities of Walter Energy's consolidated tax group for tax years prior to 2007 could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings and  Note 17. of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.. We rely on successors to Tyco to indemnify us for certain liabilities and they may become financially unable or fail to comply with the terms of the indemnity.. Under the terms of the acquisition agreement relating to the August 1999 sale by Tyco of our businesses to a previous owner of these businesses, we are indemnified by certain Tyco entities (\"Tyco Indemnitors\") for all liabilities arising in connection with the operation of these businesses prior to their sale by Tyco, including with respect to products manufactured or sold prior to the closing of that transaction, as well as certain environmental liabilities.  These indemnities survive indefinitely and are not subject to any dollar limits.  In the past, Tyco Indemnitors have made substantial payments and assumed defense of claims in connection with these indemnification obligations.  Tyco's indemnity does not cover liabilities to the extent caused by us or the operation of our businesses after August 1999, nor does it cover liabilities arising with respect to businesses or sites acquired after August 1999.  Since 2007, Tyco has engaged in multiple corporate restructurings, split-offs and divestitures.  The result of these transactions is that the assets of, and control over, Tyco Indemnitors has changed.  Should any Tyco Indemnitor become financially unable or fail to comply with the terms of the indemnity, we may be responsible for such obligations or liabilities.. We depend on qualified personnel and, if we are unable to retain or hire executive officers, key employees and. skilled personnel, we may not be able to achieve our strategic objectives and our business may be adversely. affected.. Our ability to expand or maintain our business depends on our ability to hire, train and retain employees with the skills necessary to understand and adapt to the continuously developing needs of our customers.  The increasing demand for qualified personnel makes it more difficult for us to attract and retain employees with requisite skill sets, particularly employees with specialized technical and trade experience.  Changing demographics and labor work force trends also may result in a loss of knowledge and skills as experienced workers retire.  If we fail to attract, motivate, train and retain qualified personnel, or if we experience excessive turnover, we may experience declining sales, manufacturing delays or other inefficiencies, increased recruiting, training and relocation costs and other difficulties, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.  Competition for qualified personnel is intense, particularly in several regions of the United States where we manufacture products and particularly within Technologies.  We may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, which could negatively impact our business.. In addition, we have recently made or announced several key changes to our leadership team, including the addition of a new Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Information Officer as well as a number of new general managers for our business units.  If we fail to effectively implement these management and personnel changes, we may be unable to achieve our strategic objectives and operating efficiencies. Furthermore, the loss of any of our key personnel could jeopardize our relationships with customers and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 14. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. Our expenditures for pension obligations could be materially higher than we have predicted.. We provide pension benefits to certain current and former employees.  To determine our future payment obligations under the plans, certain rates of return on the plans' assets, growth rates of certain costs and participant longevity have been estimated. The proportion of the assets held by our U.S. pension plan invested in fixed income securities, instead of equity securities, has increased over historical levels.  This shift in asset allocation has resulted in a decrease in the estimated rate of return on plan assets for this plan.  Assumed discount rates, expected return on plan assets and participant longevity have significant effects on the amounts reported for the pension obligations and pension expense.. The funded status of our pension plans can also be influenced by regulatory requirements, which can change unexpectedly and impose higher costs if funding levels are below certain thresholds.  We may increase contributions to our pension plans to avoid or reduce these higher costs.. Significant adverse changes in credit and capital markets or changes in investments could result in discount rates or actual rates of return on plan assets being materially lower than projected and require us to increase pension contributions in future years to meet funding level requirements.  Increasing life spans for plan participants may increase the estimated benefit payments and increase the amounts reported for pension obligations, pension contributions and pension expense.  If increased funding requirements are particularly significant and sustained, our overall liquidity could be materially reduced, which could cause us, among other things, to reduce investments and capital expenditures, or restructure or refinance our debt.. Any failure to satisfy international trade laws and regulations or to otherwise comply with changes or other trade developments may adversely affect us.. Our operations require importing and exporting goods and technology among countries on a regular basis.  Thus, the sale and shipment of our products and services across international borders, as well as the purchase of components and products from international sources, subject us to extensive trade laws and regulations.  Trade laws and regulations are complex, differ by country, and are enforced by a variety of government agencies.  Because we are subject to extensive trade laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate, we are subject to the risk that laws and regulations could change in a way that would expose us to additional costs, penalties or liabilities, and our policies and procedures may not always protect us from actions that would violate international trade laws and regulations.  For example, certain federal legislation requires the use of American iron and steel products in certain water projects receiving certain federal appropriations.  We have incurred costs in connection with ensuring our ability to certify to these requirements, including those associated with enhancing our assembly operations and sourcing practices.  As a result of the varying legal and regulatory requirements to which our cross-border activities are subject, we may not always be in compliance with the trade laws and regulations in all respects.  Any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions, including denial of import or export privileges, and could harm our reputation and our business prospects.. Our high fixed costs may make it more difficult for us to respond to economic cycles.. A significant portion of our cost structure is fixed, including manufacturing overhead, capital equipment and research and development costs.  In a prolonged economic downturn, these fixed costs may cause our gross margins to erode and earnings to decline.. The prices of our purchased components and raw materials can be volatile.. Our operations require substantial amounts of purchased components and raw materials, such as scrap steel, sand, resin, brass ingot and steel pipe.  We generally purchase components and raw materials at current market prices.  The cost and availability of these materials are subject to economic forces largely beyond our control, including North American and international demand, foreign currency exchange rates, freight costs and commodity speculation.. We may not be able to pass on the entire cost of price increases for purchased components and raw materials to our customers or offset fully the effects of these higher costs through productivity improvements.  In particular, when purchased component or raw material prices increase rapidly or to significantly higher than normal levels, we may not be able to pass cost increases through to our customers on a timely basis, if at all, which would reduce our profitability and cash flows.  In addition, if purchased components or raw materials were not available or not available on commercially reasonable terms, our sales, profitability and cash flows would be reduced.  Our competitors may secure more reliable sources of purchased components and raw materials or they may obtain these supplies on more favorable terms than we do, which could give them a cost advantage.. Potential international business opportunities may expose us to additional risks.. 15. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements. A part of our growth strategy depends on us expanding internationally.  Although net sales outside of the United States and Canada account for a small percentage of our total net sales, we expect to increase our level of business activity outside of the United States and Canada.  Some countries that present good business opportunities also face political and economic instability and vulnerability to infrastructure and other disruptions.  Seeking to expand our business internationally exposes us to additional risks, which include political and economic uncertainties, currency fluctuations, changes in local business conditions and national and international conflicts.  A primary risk we face in connection with our export shipments relates to our ability to collect amounts due from customers.  We also face the potential risks arising from staffing, monitoring and managing international operations, including the risk such activities may divert our resources and management time.. In addition, compliance with the laws and regulations of multiple international jurisdictions increases our cost of doing business.  International operations are subject to anti-corruption laws and anti-competition regulations, among others. For example, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar non-U.S. anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence foreign government officials and certain others for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, or obtaining an unfair advantage.  Violations of these laws and regulations could result in criminal and civil sanctions, disrupt our business and adversely affect our brands, international expansion efforts, business and operating results.. Seasonal demand for certain of our products and services may adversely affect our financial results.. Sales of some of our products, including iron gate valves and fire hydrants, are seasonal, with lower sales in our first and second fiscal quarters when weather conditions throughout most of North America tend to be cold resulting in lower levels of construction activity.  This seasonality in demand has resulted in fluctuations in our sales and operating results.  To satisfy demand during expected peak periods, we may incur costs associated with building inventory in off-peak periods, and our projections as to future needs may not be accurate. Because many of our expenses are fixed, seasonal trends can cause reductions in our profitability and profit margins and deterioration of our financial condition during periods affected by lower production or sales activity.. We may be affected by new governmental legislation and regulations relating to carbon dioxide emissions.. Many of our manufacturing plants use significant amounts of electricity generated by burning fossil fuels, which releases carbon dioxide.  Federal and state courts and administrative agencies are considering the scope and scale of carbon dioxide emission regulation under various laws pertaining to the environment, energy use and development and greenhouse gas emissions.  In addition, several states are considering various carbon dioxide registration and reduction programs.  The final details and scope of these various legislative, regulatory and policy measures are unclear and their potential impact is still uncertain, so we cannot fully predict the impact on our business.. The potential impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain.  The EPA has found that global climate change could increase the severity and possibly the frequency of severe weather patterns.  Although the financial impact of these potential changes is not reasonably estimable at this time, our operations in certain locations and those of our customers and suppliers could potentially be adversely affected, which could adversely affect our sales, profitability and cash flows.. 16. Table of Contents. Index to Financial Statements"
