[1] "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Company is exposed to risk as it operates its businesses.  To provide a framework to understand our operating environment, we are providing a brief explanation of the more significant risks associated with our businesses.  Although we have tried to identify and discuss key risk factors, others could emerge in the future.  These risk factors should be considered carefully when evaluating the Company and its businesses.. Increases in costs and the availability of energy and raw materials used in our products could impact our cost of goods sold and our distribution expenses, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating margins.. Both the costs of raw materials used in our manufactured products (copper, brass, zinc, aluminum, and PVC and ABS resins) and energy costs (electricity, natural gas and fuel) have been volatile during the last several years, which has resulted in changes in production and distribution costs.  For example, recent and pending climate change regulation and initiatives on the state, regional, federal, and international levels that have focused on reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the energy and utility sectors may affect energy availability and costs in the near future.  While we typically attempt to pass costs through to our customers or to modify or adapt our activities to mitigate the impact of increases, we may not be able to do so successfully.  Failure to fully pass increases to our customers or to modify or adapt our activities to mitigate the impact could have a material adverse impact on our operating margins.  Additionally, if we are for any reason unable to obtain raw materials or energy, our ability to manufacture our products would be impacted, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating margins.. The unplanned departure of key personnel could disrupt our business.. We depend on the continued efforts of our senior management.  The unplanned loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified executives, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business.. Economic conditions in the housing and commercial construction industries, as well as changes in interest rates, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. Our business is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, particularly in the housing and commercial construction industries.  Prices for our products are affected by overall supply and demand in the market for our products and for our competitors' products.  In particular, market prices of building products historically have been volatile and cyclical, and we may be unable to control the timing and extent of pricing changes for our products.  Prolonged periods of weak demand or excess supply in any of our businesses could negatively affect our revenues and margins and could result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The markets that we serve, including, in particular, the housing and commercial construction industries, are significantly affected by movements in interest rates and the availability of credit.  Significantly higher interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  Our businesses are also affected by a variety of other factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, employment levels, foreign currency exchange rates, unforeseen inflationary pressures, and consumer confidence.  Since we operate in a variety of geographic areas, our businesses are subject to the economic conditions. 6. TABLE OF CONTENTS. INDEX. in each such area.  General economic downturns or localized downturns in the regions where we have operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.. The impact of economic conditions on the operations or liquidity of any party with which we conduct our business, including our suppliers and customers, may adversely impact our business.. Competitive conditions, including the impact of imports and substitute products and technologies, could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products as well as our margins and profitability.. The markets we serve are competitive across all product lines.  Some consolidation of customers has occurred and may continue, which could shift buying power to customers.  In some cases, customers have moved production to low-cost countries such as China, or sourced components from there, which has reduced demand in North America for some of the products we manufacture.  These conditions could have a material adverse impact on our ability to maintain margins and profitability.  The potential threat of imports and substitute products is based upon many factors, including raw material prices, distribution costs, foreign exchange rates, production costs, and the development of emerging technologies and applications.  The end use of alternative import and/or substitute products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.  Likewise, the development of new technologies and applications could result in lower demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross border transactions and the translation of local currency results into U.S. dollars could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial position.. We conduct our business through subsidiaries in several different countries and export our products to many countries.  Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a significant impact on the competitiveness of our products as well as the reported results of our operations, which are presented in U.S. dollars.  A portion of our products are manufactured in or acquired from suppliers located in lower cost regions.  Cross border transactions, both with external parties and intercompany relationships, result in increased exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations.  The strengthening of the U.S. dollar could expose our U.S. based businesses to competitive threats from lower cost producers in other countries such as China.  Lastly, our sales are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes.  The strengthening of the U.S. dollar could result in unfavorable translation effects when the results of foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars.  Accordingly, significant changes in exchange rates, particularly the British pound sterling, Mexican peso, Canadian dollar, South Korean won, and Chinese renminbi, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or financial position.. The vote by the United Kingdom (U.K.) to leave the European Union (EU) could adversely affect us.. Through a June 2016 U.K. referendum on its membership in the EU, a majority of U.K. voters voted to exit the EU (Brexit).  As a result, we face risks associated with the potential uncertainty and consequences that may follow Brexit, including with respect to volatility in exchange rates and interest rates and disruptions affecting our relationships with our existing and future customers, suppliers and employees.  Brexit could adversely affect European or worldwide political, regulatory, economic or market conditions and could contribute to instability in global political institutions, regulatory agencies and financial markets.  Any of these effects of Brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.. We are subject to claims, litigation, and regulatory proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on us.. We are, from time-to-time, involved in various claims, litigation matters, and regulatory proceedings.  These matters may include contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims and administrative actions, Occupational Safety and Health Administration inspections or proceedings, other tort claims, employment and tax matters and other litigation including class actions that arise in the ordinary course of our business.  Although we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of any litigation or regulatory proceeding.  Litigation and regulatory proceedings may have a material adverse effect on us because of potential adverse outcomes, defense costs, the diversion of our management's resources, availability of insurance coverage and other factors.. A strike, other work stoppage or business interruption, or our inability to renew collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms, could impact our cost structure and our ability to operate our facilities and produce our products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. We have a number of employees who are covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements.  If we are unable to negotiate acceptable new agreements with the unions representing our employees upon expiration of existing contracts, we could experience. 7. TABLE OF CONTENTS. INDEX. strikes or other work stoppages.  Strikes or other work stoppages could cause a significant disruption of operations at our facilities, which could have an adverse impact on us.  New or renewal agreements with unions representing our employees could call for higher wages or benefits paid to union members, which would increase our operating costs and could adversely affect our profitability.  Higher costs and/or limitations on our ability to operate our facilities and manufacture our products resulting from increased labor costs, strikes or other work stoppages could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. In addition, unexpected interruptions in our operations or those of our customers or suppliers due to such causes as weather-related events or acts of God, such as earthquakes, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  For example, the Environmental Protection Agency has found that global climate change would be expected to increase the severity and possibly the frequency of severe weather patterns such as hurricanes.  Although the financial impact of such future events is not reasonably estimable at this time, should they occur, our operations in certain coastal and flood-prone areas or operations of our customers and suppliers could be adversely affected.. We are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations and future compliance may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.. The nature of our operations exposes us to the risk of liabilities and claims with respect to environmental, health, and safety matters.  While we have established accruals intended to cover the cost of environmental remediation at contaminated sites, the actual cost is difficult to determine and may exceed our estimated reserves.  Further, changes to, or more rigorous enforcement or stringent interpretation of environmental or health and safety laws could require significant incremental costs to maintain compliance.  Recent and pending climate change regulation and initiatives on the state, regional, federal, and international levels may require certain of our facilities to reduce GHG emissions.  While not reasonably estimable at this time, this could require capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and/or the purchase of GHG emissions credits in the coming years.  In addition, with respect to environmental matters, future claims may be asserted against us for, among other things, past acts or omissions at locations operated by predecessor entities, or alleging damage or injury or seeking other relief in connection with environmental matters associated with our operations.  Future liabilities, claims, and compliance costs may have a material adverse effect on us because of potential adverse outcomes, defense costs, diversion of our resources, availability of insurance coverage, and other factors.  The overall impact of these requirements on our operations could increase our costs and diminish our ability to compete with products that are produced in countries without such rigorous standards; the long run impact could negatively impact our results and have a material adverse effect on our business.. If we do not successfully execute or effectively operate, integrate, leverage and grow acquired businesses, our financial results may suffer.. Our strategy for long-term growth, productivity and profitability depends in part on our ability to make prudent strategic acquisitions and to realize the benefits we expect when we make those acquisitions. In furtherance of this strategy, over the past several years, we have acquired businesses in Europe, Canada, South Korea, and the United States.. While we currently anticipate that our past and future acquisitions will enhance our value proposition to customers and improve our long-term profitability, there can be no assurance that we will realize our expectations within the time frame we have established, if at all, or that we can continue to support the value we allocate to these acquired businesses, including their goodwill or other intangible assets.. We are subject to risks associated with changes in tax laws and regulations.. We are a large corporation with operations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions.  On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Act).  The overall effect of U.S. Tax Reform may be positive for Mueller, however, there are certain changes that may have adverse effects for Mueller.  While the Act reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, it also requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on the accumulated earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries, and creates new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings.  At December 30, 2017, the Company has not completed its accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Act.  However, the Company has made a reasonable estimate of the one-time transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings as well as the impact of the Act on its existing deferred tax balances.  The final transition impacts of the Act may differ from the estimates provided elsewhere in this Annual Report, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the Act, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the Act, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the Act, or any updates or changes to estimates we have used to calculate the transition impacts.  Any changes in enacted tax laws (such as the recent U.S. tax legislation), rules or regulatory or judicial interpretations, any adverse outcome in connection with tax audits in any jurisdiction, or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. 8. TABLE OF CONTENTS. INDEX. We may be subject to risks relating to our information technology systems.. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and manage and operate our business.  A breach in cyber security could expose us, our customers, our suppliers and our employees to risks of misuse of confidential information.  A breach could also result in manipulation and destruction of data, production downtimes and operations disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, business or results of operations."
