[1] "Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. <U+FEFF>. Volatility in the global prices of crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas can significantly affect the Company's operating results.. Among the most significant variables affecting the Company's results of operations are the sales prices for crude oil and natural gas that it produces. The indices against which much of the Company's production is priced have been significantly lower in the years 2015-2017 (vs. pre-2015 years), and sales prices for crude oil and natural gas can be significantly different in U.S. markets compared to other international markets.. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil prices averaged approximately $51 in 2017, compared to $43 per barrel in 2016 and $49 per barrel in 2015 (2014 prices averaged $93 per barrel). The closing price for WTI at the end of 2017 was approximately $60 per barrel. As demonstrated by the significant decline in WTI prices in late 2014 and further declines over 2015 and early 2016, prices can be volatile.  In addition, the sales prices for sour crude oils do not always move in relation to price changes for WTI and lighter/sweeter crude oils.  Certain U.S. and Canadian crude oils and all crude oil produced in Malaysia, generally price off oil indices other than WTI, and these indices are influenced by different supply and demand forces than those that affect the U.S. WTI prices. The most common crude oil indices used to price the Company's crude include Louisiana Light Sweet (LLS), Brent and Malaysian crude oil indices.. The average New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) natural gas sales price was $2.96 per thousand cubic feet (MCF) in 2017, up from $2.48 per MCF in 2016 and $2.61 per MCF in 2015 (2014 prices averaged $4.34 per MCF). The closing price for NYMEX natural gas as of December 31, 2017, was $3.30 per MCF. Certain natural gas production offshore Sarawak have been sold in recent years at a premium to average NYMEX natural gas prices due to pricing structures built into the sales contracts.  Associated natural gas produced at fields in Block K offshore Sabah, representing approximately 6% of the Company's 2017 natural gas sales volumes, is sold at heavily discounted prices compared to NYMEX gas prices as stipulated in the sales contract.. The Company cannot predict how changes in the sales prices of oil and natural gas will affect its results of operations in future periods. The Company seeks to hedge a portion of its exposure to the effects of changing prices of crude oil and natural gas by selling forwards, swaps and other forms of derivative contracts.  In addition, the Company seeks to maximize realized prices for Canadian gas through a combination of physical forward sales and marketing to a variety of locations.. <U+FEFF>. Low oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect the Company's operations in several ways in the future.. As noted elsewhere in this report, crude oil prices were lower in the 2015-2017 period versus pre-2015 years.  WTI oil prices averaged approximately $51 per barrel in 2017, but have improved to above $60 per barrel by the end of 2017 and early 2018. Lower oil and natural gas prices adversely affect the Company in several ways:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLower sales value for the Company's oil and natural gas production reduces cash flows and net income..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLower cash flows may cause the Company to reduce its capital expenditure program, thereby potentially restricting its ability to grow production and add proved reserves. The Company may restrict its capital expenditures to balance its cash positions going forward..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLower oil and natural gas prices could lead to impairment charges in future periods..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tReductions in oil and natural gas prices could lead to reductions in the Company's proved reserves in future years. Low prices could make certain of the Company's proved reserves uneconomic, which in turn could lead to removal of certain of the Company's 2017 year-end reported proved oil reserves in future periods. These reserve reductions could be significant.. 13.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLower oil prices can impact the Company's financial metrics, and the credit rating agencies tend to lower credit ratings during periods of low commodity prices.  In addition, banks and other suppliers of financing capital generally reduce their lending limits in response to lower oil price environments.  In February 2016, Moody's Investor Services downgraded the Company's unsecured notes to a \"B1\" rating, and in August 2017 subsequently upgraded the Company's unsecured notes rating to \"Ba3\" (stable).  In February 2016, Fitch Rating downgraded the Company's notes to below investment grade, and further downgraded them in August 2017 to \"BB\" (stable).   Both current ratings by Moody's Investor Services and Fitch Ratings are below investment grade.  Standard & Poor's rates the Company's debt as investment grade at \"BBB-\". The Company's ability to obtain financing is affected by the Company's debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. Any further lowering of the Company's debt credit ratings could increase the Company's cost of capital and make it more difficult for the Company to borrow..  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLower prices for oil and natural gas could lead to weaker market prices for the Company's common stock and could cause the Company to lower its dividend.. Certain of these effects are further discussed in risk factors that follow.. Murphy's commodity price risk management may limit the Company's ability to fully benefit from potential future price increases for oil and natural gas.. The Company routinely enters into various contracts to protect its cash flows against lower oil and natural gas prices. Because of these contracts, if the prices for oil and natural gas increase in future periods, the Company will not fully benefit from the price improvement on all of its production.. <U+FEFF>. Murphy Oil's businesses operate in highly competitive environments, which could adversely affect it in many ways, including its profitability, its ability to grow, and its ability to manage its businesses.. Murphy operates in the oil and gas industry and experiences competition from other oil and gas companies, which include state-owned foreign oil companies, major integrated oil companies, private equity investors and independent producers of oil and natural gas. Many of the state-owned and major integrated oil companies and some of the independent producers that compete with the Company have substantially greater resources than Murphy. In addition, the oil industry as a whole competes with other industries in supplying energy requirements around the world. Murphy competes, among other things, for valuable acreage positions, exploration licenses, drilling equipment and human resources.. <U+FEFF>. If Murphy cannot replace its oil and natural gas reserves, it may not be able to sustain or grow its business.. Murphy continually depletes its oil and natural gas reserves as production occurs. In order to sustain and grow its business, the Company must successfully replace the oil and natural gas it produces with additional reserves. Therefore, it must create and maintain a portfolio of good prospects for future reserves additions and production by obtaining rights to explore for, develop and produce hydrocarbons in prospective areas. In addition, it must find, develop and produce and/or purchase reserves at a competitive cost to be successful in the long-term. Murphy's ability to operate profitably in the exploration and production business, therefore, is dependent on its ability to find, develop and produce and/or purchase oil and natural gas reserves at costs that are less than the realized sales price for these products. In response to lower oil prices in recent years, the Company reduced its exploration program in 2016 and 2017 compared to previous years' levels, this may reduce the rate at which it is able to replace reserves.  The Company continually reviews opportunities to acquire additional reserves at low cost and in 2016 acquired a 70% operated working interest (WI) of Athabasca Oil Corporation's (Athabasca) production, acreage, infrastructure and facilities in the Kaybob Duvernay lands, and a 30% non-operated WI of Athabasca's production, acreage, infrastructure and facilities in the liquids rich Placid Montney lands in Alberta.. <U+FEFF>. Murphy's proved reserves are based on the professional judgment of its engineers and may be subject to revision.. Proved reserves of crude oil, natural gas liquids (NGL) and natural gas included in this report on pages 106 through 112 have been prepared by qualified Company personnel or qualified independent engineers based on an unweighted average of crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices in effect at the beginning of each month of the. 14. respective year as well as other conditions and information available at the time the estimates were prepared. Estimation of reserves is a subjective process that involves professional judgment by engineers about volumes to be recovered in future periods from underground oil and natural gas reservoirs. Estimates of economically recoverable crude oil, NGL and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, and consequently, different engineers could arrive at different estimates of reserves and future net cash flows based on the same available data and using industry accepted engineering practices and scientific methods. Under existing SEC rules, reported proved reserves must be reasonably certain of recovery in future periods.. Murphy's actual future oil and natural gas production may vary substantially from its reported quantity of proved reserves due to a number of factors, including:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOil and natural gas prices which are materially different from prices used to compute proved reserves.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tOperating and/or capital costs which are materially different from those assumed to compute proved reserves.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tFuture reservoir performance which is materially different from models used to compute proved reserves, and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tGovernmental regulations or actions which materially impact operations of a field.. The Company's proved undeveloped reserves represent significant portions of total proved reserves. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 43% of the Company's crude oil and condensate proved reserves, 50% of natural gas liquids proved reserves and 57% of natural gas proved reserves are undeveloped. The ability of the Company to reclassify these undeveloped proved reserves to the proved developed classification is generally dependent on the successful completion of one or more operations, which might include further development drilling, construction of facilities or pipelines, and well workovers.. The discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves as reported on pages 116 and 117 should not be considered as the market value of the reserves attributable to our properties. As required by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the estimated discounted future net revenues from our proved reserves are based on an unweighted average of the oil and natural gas prices in effect at the beginning of each month during the year. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than those used in the reserves computations.. In addition, the 10% discount factor that is required to be used to calculate discounted future net revenues for reporting purposes under GAAP is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on our cost of capital and the risks associated with our business and the crude oil and natural gas business in general.. <U+FEFF>. Exploration drilling results can significantly affect the Company's operating results.. The Company drills exploratory wells which subjects its exploration and production operating results to exposure to dry holes expense, which may have adverse effects on, and create volatility for, the Company's results of operations. In response to lower oil prices, the Company has reduced its exploration program from pre-2015 levels. In 2017 exploration wells were drilled offshore Vietnam and in the Gulf of Mexico. The Company's 2018 planned exploratory drilling program includes three wells in the Gulf of Mexico, one well in Vietnam and one well in Block 5, Mexico.. <U+FEFF>. Potential federal or state regulations could increase the Company's costs and/or restrict operating methods, which could adversely affect its production levels.. The Company's onshore North America oil and gas production is dependent on a technique known as hydraulic fracturing whereby water, sand and certain chemicals are injected into deep oil and gas bearing reservoirs in North America. This process creates fractures in the rock formation within the reservoir which enables oil and natural gas to migrate to the wellbore. The Company primarily uses this technique in the Eagle Ford Shale in South Texas and in Western Canada. This practice is generally regulated by the states, but at times the U.S. has proposed additional regulations under the Safe Drinking Water Act. In June 2011, the State of Texas adopted a law requiring public disclosure of certain information regarding the components used in the hydraulic fracturing process. The Provinces of British Columbia and Alberta have also issued regulations related to hydraulic fracturing activities under their jurisdictions. It is possible that the states, the U.S., Canadian provinces and certain municipalities adopt further laws or regulations which could render the process unlawful, less effective or drive up its costs. If any such action is taken in the future, the Company's production levels could be adversely affected or its costs of drilling and completion could be increased.. 15. In April 2016, the U.S. Department of the Interior's (DOI) Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE) enacted broad regulatory changes related to Gulf of Mexico well design, well control, casing, cementing, real-time monitoring, and subsea containment, among other items. These changes are known broadly as the Well Control Rule, and compliance is required over the next several years. However, some provisions remain for which BSEE future enforcement action and intent are unclear, so risk of impact leading to increased future cost on the Company's Gulf of Mexico operations remains.. In July 2016, the DOI's Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) issued an updated Notice to Lessees and Operators (NTL) providing details on revised procedures BOEM will be using to determine a lessee's ability to carry out decommissioning obligations for activities on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS), including the Gulf of Mexico. This revised policy became effective in September 2016 and institutes new criteria by which the BOEM will evaluate the financial strength and reliability of lessees and operators active on the OCS. If the BOEM determines under the revised policy that a company does not have the financial ability to meet its decommissioning and other obligations, that company will be required to post additional financial security as assurance. In January 2017 BOEM extended the implementation timeline for the NTL by six months for properties which have co-lessees, and in February 2017 BOEM withdrew sole liability orders issued in December 2016 to allow time for the new administration to review the financial assurance program for decommissioning. Although the Company believes the new BOEM policy will likely lead to increased costs for its Gulf of Mexico operations, it does not currently believe that the impact will be material to its operations in the Gulf of Mexico.. In the future, BOEM and/or BSEE may impose new and more stringent offshore operating regulations which may adversely affect the Company's operations.. <U+FEFF>. Hydraulic fracturing exposes the Company to operational and regulatory risks and third-party claims.. Hydraulic fracturing operations subject the Company to operational risks inherent in the drilling and production of oil and natural gas. These risks include underground migration or surface spillage due to releases of oil, natural gas, formation water or well fluids, as well as any related surface or ground water contamination, including from petroleum constituents or hydraulic fracturing chemical additives. Ineffective containment of surface spillage and surface or ground water contamination resulting from hydraulic fracturing operations, including from petroleum constituents or hydraulic fracturing chemical additives, could result in environmental pollution, remediation expenses and third-party claims alleging damages, which could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. In addition, hydraulic fracturing requires significant quantities of water; the waste water from oil and gas operations is often disposed of through underground injection. Certain increased seismic activities have been linked to underground water injection. Any diminished access to water for use in the hydraulic fracturing process, any inability to properly dispose of waste water, or any further restrictions placed on waste water, could curtail the Company's operations or otherwise result in operational delays or increased costs.. <U+FEFF>. Climate change initiatives and other environmental rules or regulations could reduce demand for crude oil and natural gas, which may adversely impact the Company's business.. The issue of climate change has caused considerable attention to be directed towards initiatives to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. An international climate agreement (the \"Paris Agreement\") was agreed to at the 2015 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France. The Paris Agreement entered into force in November 2016, however, after originally entering the agreement the U.S. administration has subsequently withdrawn from this agreement. The U.S. remains the only country not part of the Paris Agreement. It is possible that the Paris Agreement, if fully implemented, and other such initiatives, including environmental rules or regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, may reduce the demand for crude oil and natural gas globally. While the magnitude of any reduction in hydrocarbon demand is difficult to predict, such a development could adversely impact the Company and other companies engaged in the exploration and production business.  The Company continually monitors the global climate change agenda initiatives and plans accordingly based on its assessment of such initiatives on its business.. <U+FEFF>. Capital financing may not always be available to fund Murphy's activities.. Murphy usually must spend and risk a significant amount of capital to find and develop reserves before revenue is generated from production. Although most capital needs are funded from operating cash flow, the timing of cash. 16. flows from operations and capital funding needs may not always coincide, and the levels of cash flow generated by operations may not fully cover capital funding requirements, especially in periods of low commodity prices such as those experienced in recent years. Therefore, the Company maintains financing arrangements with lending institutions to meet certain funding needs. The Company periodically renews these financing arrangements based on foreseeable financing needs or as they expire. The Company has a primary bank financing facility with capacity of $1.1 billion that now matures in August 2021. There is the possibility that financing arrangements may not always be available at sufficient levels required to fund the Company's activities in future periods. As of December 31, 2017, the Company's long-term debt was rated \"Ba3\" (stable) by Moody's Investor Services and \"BB\" (stable) by Fitch Ratings. These credit ratings are below investment grade and could adversely affect our cost of capital and our ability to raise debt as needed in public markets in future periods. Additionally, in order to obtain debt financing in future years, the Company may have to provide more security to its lenders.  Below investment grade credit ratings by certain agencies have led to increased debt service costs for certain outstanding notes, and also made it more likely that the Company would have to post collateral such as letters of credit or cash as financial assurance of its performance under certain contractual arrangements. The Company's primary revolving credit facility requires granting of security by the Company in certain circumstances, which have not occurred at this time.  See further explanation in Note F of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company has a shelf registration statement on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that permits the offer and sale of debt and/or equity securities through October 2018.. <U+FEFF>. Murphy has limited or virtually no control over several factors that could adversely affect the Company.. The ability of the Company to successfully manage development and operating costs is important because virtually all of the products it sells are energy commodities such as crude oil, NGL and natural gas, for which the Company has little or no influence on the sales prices or regional and worldwide consumer demand for these products. Changes in commodity prices also impact the volume of production attributed to the Company under production sharing contracts in Malaysia. Economic slowdowns, such as those experienced in 2008 and 2009, had a detrimental effect on the worldwide demand for these energy commodities, which effectively led to reduced prices for oil and natural gas for a period of time. An abundant supply of crude oil in recent years also led to a severe decline in worldwide oil prices. Lower prices for crude oil, NGL and natural gas inevitably lead to lower earnings for the Company. The low crude oil price environment in the 2015-2017 period has caused the Company to reduce spending on certain discretionary drilling programs, which in turn hurts the Company's future production levels and future cash flow generated from operations. The Company often experiences pressure on its operating and capital expenditures in periods of strong crude oil and natural gas prices because an increase in exploration and production activities due to high oil and gas sales prices generally leads to higher demand for, and consequently higher costs for, goods and services in the oil and gas industry. The increase in oil prices in 2017 has led to some upward inflation pressure in oil field goods and service costs during the year.. Certain of the Company's major oil and natural gas producing properties are operated by others. Therefore, Murphy does not fully control all activities at certain of its revenue generating properties. During 2017, approximately 14% of the Company's total production was at fields operated by others, while at December 31, 2017, approximately 9% of the Company's total proved reserves were at fields operated by others.. Additionally, the Company relies on the availability of transportation and processing facilities that are often owned by others. These third-party systems and facilities may not always be available to the Company, and if available, may not be available at a price that is acceptable to the Company.. <U+FEFF>. Failure of our partners to fund their share of development costs or obtain financing could result in delay or cancellation of future projects, thus limiting our growth and future cash flows.. Some of Murphy's development projects entail significant capital expenditures and have long development cycle times. As a result, the Company's partners must be able to fund their share of investment costs through the development cycle, through cash flow from operations, external credit facilities, or other sources, including financing arrangements. Murphy's partners are also susceptible to certain of the risk factors noted herein, including, but not limited to, commodity price declines, fiscal regime changes, government project approval delays, regulatory changes, credit downgrades and regional conflict. If one or more of these factors negatively impacts a project partners' cash flows or ability to obtain adequate financing, it could result in a delay or cancellation of a project, resulting in a reduction of the Company's reserves and production, which negatively impacts the timing and receipt of planned cash flows and expected profitability.. 17. Murphy's operations and earnings have been and will continue to be affected by worldwide political developments.. Many governments, including those that are members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), unilaterally intervene at times in the orderly market of crude oil and natural gas produced in their countries through such actions as changing fiscal regimes (including corporate tax rates), setting prices, determining rates of production, and controlling who may buy and sell the production.. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted into legislation the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (2017 Tax Act).   For the year ended December 31, 2017, Murphy recorded a tax expense of $274.0 million associated with the 2017 Tax Act. The charge includes the impact of a  deemed repatriation of foreign income and the re-measurement of the future value of deferred tax assets and liabilities. Separately, Murphy expects to receive cash refunds or credits of $29.7 million over the next four years relating to Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) credits generated in earlier years. Murphy continues to assess the impact of this legislation including, among other things, the carry-forward of 2017 net operating losses, the change to U.S. federal tax rates, the possible limitations on the deductibility of interest paid, the option for expensing of capital expenditures, the migration from a worldwide system of taxation to a territorial system, and the use of new anti-base erosion provisions. The tax expense recorded in 2017 is a reasonable estimate based on published guidance available at this time and is considered provisional. The ultimate impact of the 2017 Tax Act may differ from these estimates due to changes in interpretations and assumptions made by the company, as well as additional regulatory guidance that may be issued. There is substantial uncertainty regarding interpretations and details of certain aspects of the 2017 Tax Act.  The impact of the legislation on our business and on holders of our common shares is uncertain and could be adverse, as well as favorable.  The SEC has permitted U.S. registrants one year to complete and recognize the effects of the 2017 Tax Act.. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 19% of the Company's proved reserves, as defined by the SEC, were located in countries other than the U.S. and Canada. In addition, prices and availability of crude oil, natural gas and refined products could be influenced by political unrest and by various governmental policies to restrict or increase petroleum usage and supply. Other governmental actions that could affect Murphy's operations and earnings include expropriation, tax changes, royalty increases, redefinition of international boundaries, preferential and discriminatory awarding of oil and gas leases, restrictions on drilling and/or production, restraints and controls on imports and exports, safety, and relationships between employers and employees. Governments could also initiate regulations concerning matters such as currency fluctuations, currency conversion, protection and remediation of the environment, and concerns over the possibility of global warming caused by the production and use of hydrocarbon energy.. A number of non-governmental entities routinely attempt to influence industry members and government energy policy in an effort to limit industry activities, such as hydrocarbon production, drilling and hydraulic fracturing with the desire to minimize the emission of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide, which may harm air quality, and to restrict hydrocarbon spills, which may harm land and/or groundwater.. Additionally, because of the numerous countries in which the Company operates, certain other risks exist, including the application of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Canada Corruption of Foreign Officials Act, the Malaysia Anti-Corruption Commission Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, the Brazil Clean Companies Act, the Mexico General Law of the National Anti-Corruption System, and other similar anti-corruption compliance statutes.. It is not possible to predict the actions of governments and hence the impact on Murphy's future operations and earnings.. <U+FEFF>. Murphy's business is subject to operational hazards, security risks and risks normally associated with the exploration for and production of oil and natural gas.. The Company operates in urban and remote, and sometimes inhospitable, areas around the world. The occurrence of an event, including but not limited to acts of nature such as hurricanes, floods, earthquakes (and other forms of severe weather), mechanical equipment failures, industrial accidents, fires, explosions, acts of war, civil unrest, piracy and acts of terrorism could result in the loss of hydrocarbons and associated revenues, environmental pollution or contamination, personal injury, (including death), and property damages for which the Company could be deemed to be liable and which could subject the Company to substantial fines and/or claims for punitive damages.. The location of many of Murphy's key assets causes the Company to be vulnerable to severe weather, including hurricanes and tropical storms. A number of significant oil and natural gas fields lie in offshore waters around the. 18. world. Probably the most vulnerable of the Company's offshore fields are in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, where severe hurricanes and tropical storms have often led to shutdowns and damages. The U.S. hurricane season runs from June through November. Although the Company maintains insurance for such risks as described elsewhere in this Form 10-K report, due to policy deductibles and possible coverage limits, weather-related risks are not fully insured.  The Company has in the past experienced operational delays in Malaysia due to tropical storms in the South China Sea.. In addition, the Company has risks associated with cybersecurity attacks. Although the Company maintains processes and systems to monitor and avoid damages from security threats, there can be no assurance that such processes and systems will successfully avert such security breaches. A successful breach could lead to system disruptions, loss of data or unauthorized release of highly sensitive data. This could lead to property or environmental damages and could have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues and costs.. <U+FEFF>. Murphy's insurance may not be adequate to offset costs associated with certain events and there can be no assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available in the future on terms that justify its purchase.. Murphy maintains insurance against certain, but not all, hazards that could arise from its operations. The Company maintains liability insurance sufficient to cover its share of gross insured claim costs up to approximately $500 million per occurrence and in the annual aggregate. Generally, this insurance covers various types of third-party claims related to personal injury, death and property damage, including claims arising from \"sudden and accidental\" pollution events. The Company also maintains insurance coverage with an additional limit of $400 million per occurrence ($850 million for Gulf of Mexico claims not related to a named windstorm), all or part of which could be applicable to certain sudden and accidental pollution events. These policies have deductibles ranging from $10 million to $25 million. The occurrence of an event that is not insured or not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations in the future.. <U+FEFF>. Lawsuits against Murphy and its subsidiaries could adversely affect its operating results.. The Company is involved in numerous lawsuits seeking cash settlements for alleged personal injuries, property damages and other business-related matters. Certain of these lawsuits will take many years to resolve through court proceedings or negotiated settlements. None of the currently pending lawsuits are considered individually material or aggregate to a material amount in the opinion of management.. <U+FEFF>. The Company is exposed to credit risks associated with sales of certain of its products to third parties and associated with its operating partners.. Although Murphy limits its credit risk by selling its products to numerous entities worldwide, it still, at times, carries substantial credit risk from its customers. For certain oil and gas properties operated by the Company, other companies which own partial interests may not be able to meet their financial obligation to pay for their share of capital and operating costs as they come due. The inability of a purchaser of the Company's oil or natural gas or a partner of the Company to meet their respective payment obligations to the Company could have an adverse effect on Murphy's future earnings and cash flows.. <U+FEFF>. Murphy's operations could be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency conversion rates.. The Company's worldwide operational scope exposes it to risks associated with foreign currencies. Most of the Company's business is transacted in U.S. dollars, and therefore the Company and most of its subsidiaries are U.S. dollar functional entities for accounting purposes. However, the Canadian dollar is the functional currency for all Canadian operations.. In certain countries, such as Canada and Malaysia significant levels of transactions occur in currencies other than the functional currency. In Malaysia, such transactions include tax and other supplier payments, while in Canada, certain crude oil sales are priced in U.S. dollars. In late 2016, Malaysian authorities altered the local currency rules such that 75% of the proceeds of export oil and gas sales must be converted to local currency when received; plus, beginning in 2017, resident suppliers of goods and services to the Company must be paid in local currency.. This exposure to currencies other than the functional currency can lead to impacts on consolidated financial results from foreign currency translation. Exposures associated with current and deferred income tax liability and asset. 19. balances in Malaysia are generally not hedged. A strengthening of the Malaysian ringgit against the U.S. dollar would be expected to lead to currency gains in consolidated operations; losses would be expected if the ringgit weakens versus the dollar.   In Canada, currency risk is often managed by selling forward U.S. dollars to match the collection dates for crude oil sold in that currency. On occasions the Canadian business may hold assets or incur liabilities denominated in a currency which is not Canadian dollars which could lead to exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. See also Note L in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on derivative contracts.. <U+FEFF>. The costs and funding requirements related to the Company's retirement plans are affected by several factors.. A number of actuarial assumptions impact funding requirements for the Company's retirement plans. The most significant of these assumptions include return on assets, long-term interest rates and mortality. If the actual results for the plans vary significantly from the actuarial assumptions used, or if laws regulating such retirement plans are changed, Murphy could be required to make more significant funding payments to one or more of its retirement plans in the future and/or it could be required to record a larger liability for future obligations in its Consolidated Balance Sheet.. <U+FEFF>"
