[1] "ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this annual report, the following factors should be carefully considered when evaluating Nabors. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks.. Fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect drilling activity and our revenues, cash flows and profitability.. Our operations depend on the level of spending by oil and gas companies for exploration, development and production activities. Both short-term and long-term trends in oil and natural gas prices affect these activity levels. Oil and natural gas prices, as well as the level of drilling, exploration and production activity, can be highly volatile. For example, oil prices were as high as $107 per barrel during 2014 and were as low as $26 per barrel in February 2016. During 2017, oil prices began to stabilize to moderate levels at an average of approximately $54 per barrel, still well below the peak we experienced three years ago and the average price over the last decade. The decrease in oil prices was caused by, among other things, an oversupply of crude oil and stagnant demand. Worldwide military, political and economic events, including initiatives by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, affect both the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas. In addition, weather conditions, governmental regulation (both in the United States and elsewhere), levels of consumer demand for oil and natural gas, general economic conditions, the availability and demand for drilling equipment and pipeline capacity, availability and pricing of alternative energy sources, and other factors beyond our control may also affect the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas.. As a result of the low oil price environment that began at the end of 2014, drilling, exploration and production activity declined in 2015 and remained low throughout 2016, resulting in a corresponding decline in the demand for our drilling services and/or a reduction in our dayrates and rig utilization. Although oil prices rebounded somewhat in 2017, they remain relatively low when compared to prices earlier in the decade and the level of drilling, exploration and production activities remains lower than prior to 2014. The continuation of relatively lower oil and natural gas prices, or a decline in such prices, could have an adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows, liquidity and profitability.. Lower oil and natural gas prices also could adversely impact our cash forecast models used to determine whether the carrying values of our long-lived assets exceed our future cash flows, which could result in future impairment to our long-lived assets. Additionally, these circumstances could indicate that the carrying amount of our goodwill and intangible assets may exceed their fair value, which could result in a future goodwill impairment. Lower oil and natural gas prices also could affect our ability to retain skilled rig personnel and affect our ability to access capital to finance and grow our business. There can be no assurances as to the future level of demand for our services or future conditions in the oil and natural gas and oilfield services industries.. 11. Table of Contents. Our customers and thereby our business and profitability could be adversely affected by turmoil in the global economy.. Changes in general economic and political conditions may negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a result of the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, we are unable to fully predict the level of exploration, drilling and production activities of our customers and whether our customers and/or vendors will be able to sustain their operations and fulfill their commitments and obligations. If oil prices remain at the current relatively low levels or decrease and/or global economic conditions deteriorate, there could be a material adverse impact on the liquidity and operations of our customers, vendors and other worldwide business partners, which in turn could have a material impact on our results of operations and liquidity. Furthermore, these conditions may result in certain of our customers experiencing an inability to pay vendors, including us. In addition, we may experience difficulties forecasting future capital expenditures by our customers, which in turn could lead to either over capacity or, in the event of further recovery in oil prices and the world wide economy, undercapacity, either of which could adversely affect our operations. There can be no assurance that the global economic environment will not deteriorate again in the future due to one or more factors.. We operate in a highly competitive industry with excess drilling capacity, which may adversely affect our results of operations.. The oilfield services industry is very competitive. Contract drilling companies compete primarily on a regional basis, and competition may vary significantly from region to region at any particular time. Most rigs and drilling-related equipment can be moved from one region to another in response to changes in levels of activity and market conditions, which may result in an oversupply of such rigs and drilling-related equipment in certain areas, and accordingly, increased price competition. In addition, in recent years, the ability to deliver rigs with new technology and features has become an important factor in determining job awards. Our customers increasingly demand the services of newer, higher specification drilling rigs, which requires continued technological developments and increased capital expenditures. Our ability to continually provide technologically competitive drilling-related equipment and services can impact our ability to defend, maintain or increase prices, maintain market share, and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and services and changes in customer requirements for equipment. New technologies, services or standards could render some of our services, drilling rigs or equipment obsolete, which could adversely impact our ability to compete. Another key factor in job award determinations is our ability to maintain a strong safety record. If we are unable to remain competitive based on these and/or other competitive factors, we may be unable to increase or even maintain our market share, utilization rates and/or day rates for our services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. We must renew customer contracts to remain competitive.. Our ability to renew existing customer contracts, or obtain new contracts, and the terms of any such contracts depends on market conditions and our customers' future drilling plans, which are subject to change. Due to the highly competitive nature of the industry, which can be exacerbated during periods of depressed market conditions, we may not be able to renew or replace expiring contracts or, if we are able to, we may not be able to secure or improve existing dayrates or other material terms, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The nature of our operations presents inherent risks of loss that could adversely affect our results of operations.. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the drilling and workover industries, including blowouts, cratering, explosions, fires, loss of well control, loss of or damage to the wellbore or underground reservoir, damaged or lost drilling equipment and damage or loss from inclement weather or natural disasters. Any of these hazards could result in personal injury or death, damage to or destruction of equipment and facilities, suspension of operations, environmental and natural resources damage and damage to the property of others. Global climate change could lengthen these periods of reduced activity, but we cannot currently estimate to what degree. Our offshore operations involve the additional hazards of marine operations including capsizing, grounding, collision, damage from hurricanes and heavy weather or sea conditions and unsound ocean bottom conditions. Our operations are also subject to risks of war, civil disturbances or other political events.. 12. Table of Contents. Accidents may occur, we may be unable to obtain desired contractual indemnities, and our insurance may prove inadequate in certain cases. The occurrence of an event for which we are not fully insured or indemnified against, or the failure or inability of a customer or insurer to meet its indemnification or insurance obligations, could result in substantial losses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, insurance may not be available to cover any or all of these risks. Even if available, insurance may be inadequate or insurance premiums or other costs may increase significantly in the future, making insurance prohibitively expensive. We expect to continue facing upward pressure in our insurance renewals, our premiums and deductibles may be higher, and some insurance coverage may either be unavailable or more expensive than it has been in the past. Moreover, our insurance coverage generally provides that we assume a portion of the risk in the form of a deductible or self-insured retention. We may choose to increase the levels of deductibles (and thus assume a greater degree of risk) from time to time in order to minimize our overall costs, which could exacerbate the impact of our losses on our financial condition and liquidity.. Our drilling contracts may in certain instances be renegotiated, suspended or terminated without an early termination payment.. Most of our multi-well and term drilling contracts require that an early termination payment be made to us if a contract is terminated by the customer prior to its expiration. However, such payments may not fully compensate us for the loss of a contract, and in certain circumstances such as, but not limited to, non-performance caused by significant operational or equipment issues (such as destruction of a drilling rig that is not replaced within a specified period of time), sustained periods of downtime due to a force majeure event, or other events beyond our control or some other breach of our contractual obligations, our customers may not be obligated to make an early termination payment to us at all. In addition, some contracts may be suspended, rather than terminated early, for an extended period of time, in some cases without adequate compensation. The early termination or suspension of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. During periods of depressed market conditions, we may be subject to an increased risk of our customers (including government-controlled entities) seeking to renegotiate, repudiate or terminate their contracts and/or to otherwise exert commercial influence to our disadvantage. The downturn in the oil price environment resulted in downward pricing pressure and decreased demand for our drilling services with existing customers, resulting in renegotiations of pricing and other terms in our drilling contracts with certain customers and early termination of contracts by others. Our customers' ability to perform their obligations under the contracts, including their ability to pay us or fulfill their indemnity obligations, may also be impacted by an economic or industry downturn or other adverse conditions in the oil and gas industry. If we were to sustain a loss and our customers were unable to honor their indemnification and/or payment obligations, it could adversely affect our liquidity. If our customers cancel some of our contracts, and we are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and/or on substantially similar terms, or if contracts are suspended for an extended period of time with or without adequate compensation or renegotiated with pricing or other terms less favorable to us, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We may record additional losses or impairment charges related to sold or idle rigs.. In 2017 and 2016, we recognized impairment charges of $6.9 million and $245.2 million, respectively, related to tangible assets and equipment. Prolonged periods of low utilization or low dayrates, the cold stacking of idle assets, the sale of assets below their then carrying value or the decline in market value of our assets may cause us to experience further losses. If future cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, including oil and gas prices and expected utilization levels, indicate that the carrying value of any of our rigs may not be recoverable or if we sell assets for less than their then carrying value, we may recognize additional impairment charges on our fleet.. The loss of one or a number of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In 2017 and 2016, we received approximately 45% and 46%, respectively, of our consolidated operating revenues from our three largest contract drilling customers (including their affiliates), with our largest customer and partner in our SANAD joint venture, Saudi Aramco, representing 29% and 33% of our consolidated operating revenues, respectively, for these periods. The loss of one or more of our larger customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, if a significant customer experiences liquidity constraints or other financial difficulties it may be unable to make required payments or seek to renegotiate. 13. Table of Contents. contracts, which could adversely affect our liquidity and profitability. Financial difficulties experienced by customers could also adversely affect our utilization rates in the affected market.. The profitability of our operations could be adversely affected by war, civil disturbance, terrorist activity or other political or economic instability, fluctuation in currency exchange rates and local import and export controls.. We derive a significant portion of our business from global markets, including major operations in the Middle East, Canada, South America, Algeria, the Far East, North Africa and Russia. These operations are subject to various risks, including war, civil disturbances, labor strikes, political or economic instability, terrorist activity and governmental actions that may limit or disrupt markets, restrict the movement of funds or result in limits or restrictions in our ability to operate or compete, the deprivation of contractual rights or the taking of property without fair compensation. In some countries, our operations may be subject to the additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange controls. We also are subject to various laws and regulations that govern the operation and taxation of our business and the import and export of our equipment from country to country, the imposition, application and interpretation of which can prove to be uncertain. To the extent that any of these risks arising from our operations in global markets are realized, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our financial and operating flexibility could be affected by our long-term debt and other financial commitments.. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $4.0 billion in outstanding debt and the ability to borrow up to $1.7 billion under our revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, subject to compliance with the conditions and covenants of that facility including the facility's requirement that our net debt to capital ratio not exceed 0.60:1. As of December 31, 2017, our net debt to capital ratio was 0.56:1. On January 16, 2018, we consummated an offering of $800 million in aggregate principal amount of Nabors Delaware's 5.75% senior notes due 2025. The proceeds from this offering were used to repay indebtedness of Nabors and its subsidiaries, including all of Nabors Delaware's outstanding 6.15% senior notes due February 2018. After giving effect to this offering, our total outstanding debt was approximately $4.0 billion. We also have various financial commitments, such as leases, firm transportation and processing, contracts and purchase commitments. Our ability to service our debt and other financial obligations depends in large part upon the level of cash flows generated by our operating subsidiaries' operations, our ability to monetize and/or divest non-core assets, availability under our unsecured revolving credit facility and our ability to access the capital markets and/or other sources of financing. If we cannot repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due, we may be forced to sell assets or reduce funding in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes.. Our ability to access capital markets could be limited.. From time to time, we may need to access capital markets to obtain long-term and short-term financing. However, our ability to access capital markets could be limited by, among other things, oil and gas prices, our existing capital structure, our credit ratings, and the health of the drilling and overall oil and gas industry and the global economy. In addition, many of the factors that affect our ability to access capital markets, such as the liquidity of the overall capital markets and the state of the economy and oil and gas industry, are outside of our control. No assurance can be given that we will be able to access capital markets on terms acceptable to us when required to do so, which could adversely affect our business, liquidity and results of operations.. A downgrade in our credit rating could negatively impact our cost of and ability to access capital markets or other financing sources.. Our ability to access capital markets or to otherwise obtain sufficient financing may be affected by our senior unsecured debt ratings as provided by the major U.S. credit rating agencies. Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, asset purchases or sales, as well as near-term and long-term growth opportunities and industry conditions. Liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, market diversity, and commodity pricing levels and others also are considered by the rating agencies. The major U.S. credit rating agencies have downgraded our senior unsecured debt rating to non-investment grade. These and further ratings downgrades may impact our cost of capital and ability to access capital markets or other financing sources, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. 14. Table of Contents. We may be subject to changes in tax laws and have additional tax liabilities.. We operate through various subsidiaries in numerous countries throughout the world. Consequently, we are subject to changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof in the United States or jurisdictions in which we or any of our subsidiaries operate or are organized. Furthermore, the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (''OECD'') published a Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Action Plan in July 2013, seeking to reform the taxation of multinational companies. The recommendations made by the OECD may result in unilateral, uncoordinated changes in tax laws in the countries in which we operate or are organized, which may result in double taxation or otherwise increase our tax liabilities which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. The recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (H.R. 1), adopted sweeping changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code which also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to lowering the U.S. corporate income tax rate and numerous other changes, the new law imposes more stringent limitations on the deductibility of interest expense, the deductibility of net operating losses and imposes a type of minimum tax designed to reduce the benefits derived from intercompany transactions and payments that result in base erosion. Tax laws, treaties and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Our income tax expense is based upon our interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. If these tax laws, treaties or regulations change or any tax authority successfully challenges our assessment of the effects of such laws, treaties and regulations in any country, including our operational structure, intercompany pricing policies or the taxable presence of our subsidiaries in certain countries, this could have a material adverse effect on us, resulting in a higher effective tax rate on our consolidated earnings or a reclassification of the tax impact of our significant corporate restructuring transactions.. Changes to or noncompliance with governmental laws and regulations or exposure to environmental liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations.. Drilling of oil and natural gas wells is subject to various laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate, including comprehensive and frequently changing laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including those regulating the transport, storage, use, treatment, storage, disposal and remediation of, and exposure to, solid and hazardous wastes and materials. In addition, the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act provides the federal government with broad discretion in regulating the leasing of offshore oil and gas production sites. Our costs to comply with these laws and regulations may be substantial. Violation of environmental laws or regulations could lead to the imposition of administrative, civil or criminal penalties, capital expenditures, delays in the permitting or performance of projects, and in some cases injunctive relief. Violations may also result in liabilities for personal injuries, property and natural resource damage and other costs and claims. We are not always successful in allocating all risks of these environmental liabilities to customers, and it is possible that customers who assume the risks will be financially unable to bear any resulting costs.. In addition, U.S. federal laws and the laws of other jurisdictions regulate the prevention of oil spills and the release of hazardous substances, and may impose liability for removal costs and natural resource, real or personal property and certain economic damages arising from any spills. Some of these laws may impose strict and/or joint and several liability for clean-up costs and damages without regard to the conduct of the parties. As an owner and operator of onshore and offshore rigs and other equipment, we may be deemed to be a responsible party under federal law. In addition, we are subject to various laws governing the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oilfield waste and other waste materials and the use of underground storage tanks.. The expansion of the scope of laws or regulations protecting the environment has accelerated in recent years, particularly outside the United States, and we expect this trend to continue. For example, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (''EPA'') has promulgated final rules requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions applicable to certain offshore oil and natural gas production and onshore oil and natural gas production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. In June 2016, the EPA published final standards to reduce methane emissions for certain new, modified, or reconstructed facilities in the oil and gas industry but, in June 2017, the EPA published a proposed rule that would stay certain portions of the June 2016 standards for two years and reconsider the entirety of the June 2016 standards. On August 10, 2017, the D.C. Circuit rejected a request by the American Petroleum Institute, an intervenor in the case, to reconsider the court's July 3, 2017 decision to vacate the 90-day stay.. 15. Table of Contents. Changes in environmental laws and regulations may also negatively impact the operations of oil and natural gas exploration and production companies, which in turn could have an adverse effect on us. For example, drilling, fluids, produced water and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or gas, if properly handled, are currently exempt from regulation as hazardous waste under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (''RCRA'') and instead, are regulated under RCRA's less stringent non-hazardous waste provisions. However, following the filing of a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in May 2016 by several non-governmental environmental groups against the EPA for the agency's failure to timely assess its RCRA Subtitle D criteria regulations for oil and gas wastes, The EPA and the environmental groups entered into an agreement that was finalized in a Consent Decree issued by the District Court on December 28, 2016. Under the Consent Decree, the EPA is required to propose no later than March 15, 2019, a rulemaking for revision of certain Subtitle D criteria regulations pertaining to oil and gas wastes or sign a determination that revision of the regulations is not necessary. If the EPA proposes a rulemaking for revised oil and gas waste regulations, the Consent Decree requires that the EPA take final action following notice and comment rulemaking no later than July 15, 2021. Any reclassification of such wastes as RCRA hazardous wastes could result in more stringent and costly handling, disposal and clean-up requirements.. Legislators and regulators in the United States and other jurisdictions where we operate also focus increasingly on restricting the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases that may contribute to warming of the Earth's atmosphere, and other climate changes. The U.S. Congress has considered, but not adopted, legislation designed to reduce emission of greenhouse gases, and some states in which we operate have passed legislation or adopted initiatives, such as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative in the northeastern United States, which establishes greenhouse gas inventories and/or cap-and-trade programs. Some international initiatives have been or may be adopted, which could result in increased costs of operations in covered jurisdictions. In December 2015, the United States joined the international community in the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France that prepared an agreement requiring member countries to review and ''represent a progression'' in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set greenhouse gas emission reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. Although this international agreement, referred to as the \"Paris Agreement', does not create any binding obligations for nations to limit their greenhouse gas emissions, it does include pledges to voluntarily limit or make future emissions. The Paris Agreement was signed by the United States in 2016 but, in August 2017, the U.S. State Department officially informed the United Nations of the intent of the United States to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. In addition, the EPA has published findings that emissions of greenhouse gases present an endangerment to public health and the environment, which may lead to further regulations of greenhouse gas emissions under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act. The EPA has already issued rules requiring monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from the oil and natural gas sector, including onshore and offshore production activities. Furthermore, in November 2016, the Bureau of Land Management (''BLM'') published a final rule requiring reductions in methane emissions from venting, flaring, and leaking activities on public lands, but the BLM has since published a proposed rulemaking in October 2017 that would temporarily suspend certain requirements contained in the November 2016 final rule until January 17, 2019. Future or more stringent federal or state regulation could dramatically increase operating costs for oil and natural gas companies, curtail production and demand for oil and natural gas in areas of the world where our customers operate, and reduce the market for our services by making wells and/or oilfields uneconomical to operate, which may in turn adversely affect results of operations.. We rely on third-party suppliers, manufacturers and service providers to secure equipment, components and parts used in rig operations, conversions, upgrades and construction.. Our reliance on third-party suppliers, manufacturers and service providers to provide equipment and services exposes us to volatility in the quality, price and availability of such items. Certain components, parts and equipment that we use in our operations may be available only from a small number of suppliers, manufacturers or service providers. The failure of one or more third-party suppliers, manufacturers or service providers to provide equipment, components, parts or services, whether due to capacity constraints, production or delivery disruptions, price increases, quality control issues, recalls or other decreased availability of parts and equipment, is beyond our control and could materially disrupt our operations or result in the delay, renegotiation or cancellation of drilling contracts, thereby causing a loss of contract drilling backlog and/or revenue to us, as well as an increase in operating costs.. Additionally, our suppliers, manufacturers, and service providers could be negatively impacted by changes in industry conditions or global economic conditions. If certain of our suppliers, manufacturers or service providers were to curtail or discontinue their business as a result of such conditions, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies. 16. Table of Contents. or equipment available to us and/or a significant increase in the price of such supplies and equipment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Any violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or any other similar anti-corruption laws could have a negative impact on us.. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the United States, which exposes us to complex foreign and U.S. regulations inherent in doing cross-border business and in each of the countries in which we transact business. We are subject to compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (''FCPA'') and other similar anti-corruption laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The SEC and U.S. Department of Justice have continued to focus on enforcement activities with respect to the FCPA. While our employees and agents are required to comply with applicable anti-corruption laws, and we have adopted policies and procedures and related training programs meant to ensure compliance, we cannot be sure that our internal policies, procedures and programs will always protect us from violations of these laws. Violations of these laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Provisions in our organizational documents may be insufficient to thwart a coercive hostile takeover attempt; conversely, they may deter a change of control transaction and decrease the likelihood of a shareholder receiving a change of control premium.. Companies generally seek to prevent coercive takeovers by parties unwilling to pay fair value for the enterprise they acquire. Provisions in our organizational documents that are meant to help us avoid a coercive takeover include:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tAuthorizing the Board to issue a significant number of common shares and up to 25,000,000 preferred shares, as well as to determine the price, rights (including voting rights), conversion ratios, preferences and privileges of the preferred shares, in each case without any vote or action by the holders of our common shares;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLimiting the ability of our shareholders to call or bring business before special meetings;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tProhibiting our shareholders from taking action by written consent in lieu of a meeting unless the consent is signed by all the shareholders then entitled to vote;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRequiring advance notice of shareholder proposals for business to be conducted at general meetings and for nomination of candidates for election to our Board; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tReserving to our Board the ability to determine the number of directors comprising the full Board and to fill vacancies or newly created seats on the Board.. At the request of shareholders, in June 2012 we adopted an amendment to our bye-laws to declassify the Board. In addition, our shareholder rights plan expired in July 2016, and in 2017 we amended our policy regarding nomination and proxy access for director candidates recommended by shareholders. Each of these changes may make it easier for another party to acquire control of the Company. The remaining provisions designed to avoid a coercive takeover may not be fully effective so that a party may still be able to acquire the Company without paying what the Board considers to be fair value, including a control premium.. Legal proceedings and governmental investigations could affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to legal proceedings and governmental investigations from time to time that include employment, tort, intellectual property and other claims, and purported class action and shareholder derivative actions, including claims related to our acquisition of Tesco. We are also subject to complaints and allegations from former, current or prospective employees from time to time, alleging violations of employment-related laws or other whistle blower-related matters. Lawsuits or claims could result in decisions against us that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. See ''Item 3 - Legal Proceedings'' for a discussion of certain existing legal proceedings.. 17. Table of Contents. Our business is subject to cybersecurity risks.. Our operations are increasingly dependent on information technologies and services. Threats to information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risks and cyber incidents or attacks continue to grow, and include, among other things, storms and natural disasters, terrorist attacks, utility outages, theft, viruses, phishing, malware, design defects, human error, or complications encountered as existing systems are maintained, repaired, replaced, or upgraded. Risks associated with these threats include, among other things:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tTheft or misappropriation of funds;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tloss, corruption, or misappropriation of intellectual property, or other proprietary or confidential information (including customer, supplier, or employee data);.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdisruption or impairment of our and our customers' business operations and safety procedures;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdamage to our reputation with our customers and the market;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texposure to litigation;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tloss or damage to our worksite data delivery systems; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincreased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events.. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to mitigate our exposure to such risk, cybersecurity attacks and other cyber events are evolving and unpredictable. Moreover, we have no control over the information technology systems of our customers, suppliers, and others with which our systems may connect and communicate. As a result, the occurrence of a cyber incident could go unnoticed for a period time.. We do not presently maintain insurance coverage to protect against cybersecurity risks. If we procure such coverage in the future, we cannot ensure that it will be sufficient to cover any particular losses we may experience as a result of such cyber attacks. Any cyber incident could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Failure to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, divestitures, investments, joint ventures and other strategic transactions may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position.. We undertake from time to time acquisitions, divestitures, investments, joint ventures, alliances and other strategic transactions that we expect to further our business objectives. For example, in October 2016, we announced an agreement to form a new joint venture in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, which commenced operations in December, 2017. The success of the Saudi joint venture depends, to a large degree, on the satisfactory performance of our joint venture partner's obligations, including contributions of capital, drilling units and related equipment, and our ability to maintain an effective, working relationship with our joint venture partner.. We also completed the acquisition of Tesco in December 2017. Potential issues and difficulties that may be encountered with the Tesco acquisition include the following:.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe inability to successfully integrate the respective businesses of Tesco and Nabors in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated to result from the combination, which could result in the anticipated benefits of the combination not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame currently anticipated or at all;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlost sales and customers as a result of certain customers of either or both of the two companies deciding not to do business with the combined company, or deciding to decrease their amount of business in order to reduce their reliance on a single company;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tintegrating personnel from the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products and customer service;. 18. Table of Contents.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcertain regulatory approvals related to the transaction that we are still in the process of obtaining;.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the Tesco transaction; and.  \t\t\t \t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tperformance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by completing the transaction and integrating the companies' operations.. The anticipated benefits of the Saudi joint venture, the Tesco acquisition, and other strategic transactions may not be realized, or may be realized more slowly than expected, and may result in operational and financial consequences, including, but not limited to, the loss of key customers, suppliers or employees and significant transactional expenses, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The loss of key executives or inability to attract and retain experienced technical personnel could reduce our competitiveness and harm prospects for future success.. The successful execution of our business strategies will depend, in part, on the continued service of certain key executive officers and employees. We have employment agreements with some of our key personnel within the company, but no assurance can be given that any employee will remain with us, whether or not they have entered into an employment agreement with us. We do not carry key man insurance. In addition, our operations depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced technical professionals. Competition for such professionals is intense. The loss of key executive officers and/or our inability to retain or attract experienced technical personnel, could reduce our competitiveness and harm prospects for future success, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, Nabors' performance could be adversely affected if the company does not identify or retain key employees and skilled workers of Tesco. It is possible that these employees may not remain with the combined company. The loss of the services of one or more of such key employees and skilled workers could adversely affect Nabors' future operating results because of their experience and knowledge of Tesco's business. In addition, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the company as the integration of Tesco's operations with Nabors' continues. This may adversely affect the ability of Nabors to attract and retain key personnel, which could adversely affect Nabors' performance.. Significant issuances of common shares or exercises of stock options could adversely affect the market price of our common shares.. As of February 22, 2018, we had 800,000,000 authorized common shares, of which 368,338,349 shares were outstanding and entitled to vote, of which 52,800,203 million were held by our subsidiaries. In addition, 10,629,634 common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to stock option and employee benefit plans, and 31,997,773 common shares were reserved for issuance upon exchange of outstanding Exchangeable Notes. The sale, or availability for sale, of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, whether directly by us or resulting from the exercise of options (and, where applicable, sales pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act) or the exchange of Exchangeable Notes for common shares, would be dilutive to existing shareholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities.. As a holding company, we depend on our operating subsidiaries and investments to meet our financial obligations.. We are a holding company with no significant assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries. In order to meet our financial needs and obligations, we rely exclusively on repayments of interest and principal on intercompany loans that we have made to operating subsidiaries and income from dividends and other cash flow from such subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that such operating subsidiaries will generate sufficient net income to pay dividends or sufficient cash flow to make payments of interest and principal to Nabors in respect of intercompany loans. In addition, from time to time, such operating subsidiaries may enter into financing arrangements that contractually restrict or prohibit these types of upstream payments to Nabors. Nabors' debt instruments do not contain covenants prohibiting any such contractual restrictions. There may also be adverse tax consequences associated with such operating subsidiaries paying dividends. Finally, the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us, may be restricted by the laws of the. 19. Table of Contents. applicable subsidiaries' jurisdiction of organization and other laws and regulations. If subsidiaries are unable to distribute or otherwise make payments to us, we may not be able to pay interest or principal on obligations when due, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary funds from other sources."                                                                                                                                                                                                      
