[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes, and the section titled \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,\" any of which may be relevant to decisions regarding an investment in or ownership of our stock. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a significant adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, growth and ability to accomplish our strategic objectives. We have organized the description of these risks into groupings in an effort to enhance readability, but many of the risks interrelate or could be grouped or ordered in other ways, so no special significance should be attributed to the groupings or order below.. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Capital Requirements. We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history and have incurred significant losses since our inception, and we anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, which makes it difficult to assess our future viability.. We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history upon which our business can be evaluated. To date, we have generated minimal revenue from non-exclusive license agreements with biopharmaceutical companies to which we have granted the right to use our cell lines and intellectual property for non-clinical laboratory testing, and we have no products approved for commercial sale and have not generated any revenue from product sales. We have incurred operating losses on an annual basis since our formation and we may never become profitable. As of December 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $498.7 million. We incurred net losses of $96.4 million, $120.8 million, and $236.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in ongoing preclinical studies, clinical trials and operations, research and development expenses, as well as general and administrative expenses.. 52. A critical aspect of our strategy is to invest significantly in expanding our haNK and taNK platforms and the development of our product candidates. We expect to incur significant expenses as we continue to expand our business, including in connection with conducting research and development across multiple therapeutic areas, participating in clinical trial activities, continuing to acquire or in-license technologies, maintaining, protecting and expanding our intellectual property, seeking regulatory approvals and, upon successful receipt of the Federal Drug Administration, or FDA, approval, commercializing our products. We will also incur costs as we hire additional personnel and increase our manufacturing capabilities, including potentially pursuant to the lease or purchase of a facility, for the manufacturing of our product candidates for our planned clinical trials and, upon potential receipt of FDA approval, for our initial commercialization activities. Moreover, we do not expect to have any significant product sales or revenue for a number of years. These losses have had and, as our operating losses continue to increase significantly in the future due to these expenditures, will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and working capital. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our product development efforts, we are unable to predict when we may become profitable, if at all. Additionally, our net losses may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and as a result a period to period comparison of our results of operations may not be meaningful.  Even if we do become profitable, we may not be able to sustain or increase our profitability on a quarterly or annual basis.. We do not have any therapeutic products that are approved for commercial sale. Our ability to generate revenue from product sales and achieve and maintain profitability depends significantly on our success in a number of factors.. We currently do not have any therapeutic products that are approved for commercial sale. We have not received, and do not expect to receive for at least the next several years, if at all, any revenues from the commercialization of our product candidates if approved. To obtain revenue from sales of our product candidates that are significant or large enough to achieve profitability, we must succeed, either alone or with third parties, in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for, manufacturing and marketing therapies with commercial potential. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve and maintain profitability depends significantly on our success in many areas, including:. •  our research and development efforts, including preclinical studies and clinical trials of our haNK and taNK platforms and our product candidates;. •  developing sustainable, scalable, reliable and cost-effective manufacturing and distribution processes for our product candidates, including establishing and maintaining commercially viable supply relationships with third parties and establishing our own current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, manufacturing facilities and processes;. •  addressing any competing technological and industry developments;. •  identifying, assessing, acquiring and/or developing new technology platforms and product candidates across numerous therapeutic areas;. •  obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing authorizations for product candidates;. •  launching and commercializing any approved products, either directly or with a collaborator or distributor;. •  obtaining market acceptance of and acceptable reimbursement for any approved products;. •  completing collaborations, licenses and other strategic transactions on favorable terms, if at all;. •  maintaining, protecting and expanding our portfolio of intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets and know-how; and. •  attracting, hiring and retaining qualified personnel.. Even if one or more of our product candidates is eventually approved for commercial sale, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with commercializing any approved product candidate and we may not generate significant revenue from sales of such products, resulting in limited or no profitability in the future. Our prior losses and expected future losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders' equity and working capital for the foreseeable future. Any failure to become and remain profitable may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, our ability to raise additional capital and our future viability.. 53. We will need to obtain substantial additional financing to complete the development and any commercialization of our product candidates, and a failure to obtain this necessary capital when needed on acceptable terms, or at all, could force us to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our commercialization efforts, product development or other operations.. Since our inception, we have used substantial amounts of cash to fund our operations and expect our expenses to increase substantially in the foreseeable future. Developing our product candidates and conducting clinical trials for the treatment of cancer and other diseases will require substantial amounts of capital. We will also require a significant additional amount of capital to commercialize any approved products.. As of December 31, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents of $23.9 million and $133.9 million of marketable securities. We are using and expect to continue to use the net proceeds from our initial public offering, or IPO, and the concurrent private placement to fund expenses in connection with our planned clinical trials, our planned manufacturing facility and processes and the hiring of additional personnel, and for other research and development activities, working capital and general corporate purposes, including our share repurchase program. We believe that such proceeds, together with our existing cash and cash equivalents, will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. Our estimate as to how long we expect our existing cash and cash equivalents to be available to fund our operations is based on assumptions that may be proved inaccurate, and we could deplete our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. In addition, changing circumstances may cause us to consume capital significantly faster than we currently anticipate, and we may need to spend more money than currently expected because of circumstances beyond our control. We may require additional capital for the further development and any commercialization of our product candidates and may need to raise additional funds sooner than we anticipate if we choose to expand more rapidly than we presently anticipate.. Our future capital requirements may depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including:. •  the timing of, and the costs involved in, preclinical and clinical development and obtaining any regulatory approvals for our product candidates;. •  the costs of manufacturing, distributing and processing our product candidates;. •  the number and characteristics of any other product candidates we develop or acquire;. •  our ability to establish and maintain strategic collaborations, licensing or other commercialization arrangements and the terms and timing of such arrangements, including our arrangements with Viracta and Altor;. •  the degree and rate of market acceptance of any approved products;. •  the emergence, approval, availability, perceived advantages, relative cost, relative safety and relative efficacy of other products or treatments;. •  the expenses needed to attract and retain skilled personnel;. •  the costs associated with being a public company;. •  the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing intellectual property claims, including litigation costs and the outcome of such litigation;. •  the costs related to commercializing drug candidates independently;. •  the timing, receipt and amount of sales of, or royalties on, any approved products; and. •  any product liability or other lawsuits related to our product candidates.. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect our common stockholders' rights. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaborations, strategic alliances or licensing arrangements with pharmaceutical partners, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams, research programs or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. Additional capital may not be available when we need it, on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or future commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market any approved products that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves , or be unable to continue or expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities, as desired, which could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and cause the price of our common stock to decline.. 54. We invest our cash on hand in various financial instruments which are subject to risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.. We invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally commercial paper, corporate debt securities and foreign government bonds.  All of these investments are subject to credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risk. Such risks, including the failure or severe financial distress of the financial institutions that hold our cash, cash equivalents and investments, may result in a loss of liquidity, impairment to our investments, realization of substantial future losses, or a complete loss of the investments in the long-term, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. In order to manage the risk to our investments, we maintain an investment policy that, among other things, limits the amount that we may invest in any one issue or any single issuer and requires us to only invest in high credit quality securities.. We are involved in pending securities litigation and an adverse resolution of such litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. Following our announcement that we have restated our interim financial statements for the quarters ended June 30, 2015 and September 30, 2015 to address errors related to certain stock-based awards to our Chairman and CEO and build-to-suit lease accounting related to one of our research and development and cGMP facilities, we became the subject of a lawsuit alleging securities law violations. This type of litigation can be expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome can be difficult to predict regardless of the facts involved. An unfavorable outcome with respect to this type of lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For additional information regarding this and other lawsuits in which we are involved, see Part II, Item 1, Legal Proceedings.. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry. The foundation of our business is based upon the success of our aNK cells as a technology platform. Our aNK platform and product candidates derived thereof, including genetically modified haNK, taNK and t-haNK product candidates, will require significant additional clinical testing before we can potentially seek regulatory approval and launch commercial sales.. Our business and future success depend on our ability to utilize our aNK cells as a technology platform, and to obtain regulatory approval for one or more product candidates derived from it, and then successfully commercialize our product candidates addressing numerous therapeutic areas. Our aNK platform and our haNK, taNK and t-haNK product candidates are in the early stages of development and may never become commercialized. All of our product candidates developed from our technology platform will require additional clinical and non-clinical development, regulatory review and approval in multiple jurisdictions, substantial investment, access to sufficient commercial manufacturing capacity and significant marketing efforts before they can be successfully commercialized. Because all of our product candidates are based on the same core aNK technology, if any of our product candidates encounter safety or efficacy problems, developmental delays or regulatory issues or other problems, these could impact the development plans for our other product candidates.. Utilizing haNK and taNK cells represents a novel approach to immunotherapy, including cancer treatment, and we must overcome significant challenges in order to successfully develop, commercialize and manufacture our product candidates.. We have concentrated our research and development efforts on utilizing aNK cells as an immunotherapy platform and genetically modified aNK cells as product candidates based on this platform. We believe that our product candidates represent a novel approach to immunotherapy, including cancer treatment. Advancing this novel immunotherapy creates significant challenges for us, including:. •  educating medical personnel regarding the potential side effect profile of our cells;. •  enrolling sufficient numbers of patients in clinical trials;. •  developing a reliable, safe and effective means of genetically modifying our cells;. •  manufacturing our cells on a large scale and in a cost-effective manner;. •  submitting applications for and obtaining regulatory approval, as the FDA and other regulatory authorities have limited experience with commercial development of immunotherapies for cancer; and. •  establishing sales and marketing capabilities, as well as developing a manufacturing process and distribution network to support the commercialization of any approved products.. We must be able to overcome these challenges in order for us to successfully develop, commercialize and manufacture our product candidates utilizing haNK and taNK cells.. 55. Even if we successfully develop and commercialize our haNK product candidate for pancreatic cancer, we may not be successful in developing and commercializing our other product candidates, and our commercial opportunities may be limited.. While our most advanced product candidate and program is now haNK in pancreatic cancer, after transitioning our aNK product candidate to haNK for Merkel cell carcinoma, we believe that our future success is highly dependent upon our ability to successfully develop and commercialize our other product candidates as well. We are simultaneously pursuing preclinical and clinical development of a number of product candidates spanning several therapeutic areas, including various types of cancer and infectious and inflammatory diseases. For example, we are devoting substantial resources toward the development of haNK product candidates, which we plan to develop as combination therapies with commercially approved mAbs and late-stage product candidates, and taNK product candidates, which we plan to develop for acute myeloid leukemia, or AML, Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, or NHL, and solid tumors such as breast, ovarian, lung, head and neck and colorectal cancers. In addition, our ability to realize the full value of our aNK platform will depend on our success in pursuing our other planned product candidates for a wide range of other indications.. Even if we are successful in continuing to build our pipeline of additional product candidates based on our technology platform, obtaining regulatory approvals and commercializing any approved product candidates will require substantial additional funding beyond the net proceeds of our IPO and are prone to numerous risks of failure. Investment in biopharmaceutical product development involves significant risks that any product candidate will fail to demonstrate adequate efficacy or an acceptable safety profile to the satisfaction of regulatory authorities, gain regulatory approval or become commercially viable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully advance any product candidates through the development process. Our research programs may initially show promise in identifying additional product candidates, but ultimately fail to yield additional product candidates for clinical development or commercialization for many reasons, including the following:. •  our additional product candidates may not succeed in preclinical or clinical testing due to failing to generate enough data to support the initiation or continuation of clinical trials or due to lack of patient enrollment in clinical trials;. •  a product candidate may be shown to have harmful side effects or other characteristics in larger scale clinical studies that indicate it is unlikely to meet applicable regulatory criteria;. •  competitors may develop alternatives that render our product candidates obsolete or less attractive;. •  we may not be able or willing to assemble sufficient resources to acquire or discover additional product candidates from our technology platform;. •  product candidates we develop may nevertheless be covered by third parties' patents or other exclusive rights;. •  the market for a product candidate may change during our program so that the continued development of that product candidate is no longer reasonable;. •  a product candidate may not be capable of being manufactured in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost, or at all; and. •  a product candidate may not be accepted as safe and effective by patients, the medical community or third-party payors.. If any of these events occur, we may be forced to abandon our development efforts for a product candidate or the entire platform, or we may not be able to identify, discover, develop or commercialize additional product candidates, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and could potentially cause us to cease operations.. We may not be able to file INDs to commence additional clinical trials on the timelines we expect, and even if we are able to, the FDA may not permit us to proceed in a timely manner, or at all.. Prior to commencing clinical trials in the United States for any of our product candidates, we may be required to have an allowed IND for each product candidate. As of the date of this filing, we have several INDs that have been allowed in the U.S., including 12 for our haNK product candidate as part of our NANT Cancer Vaccine, or NCV, program.  We are required to file additional INDs prior to initiating our planned clinical trials. We believe that the data from previous preclinical studies will support the filing of additional INDs, to enable us to undertake additional clinical studies as we have planned. However, submission of an IND may not result in the FDA allowing further clinical trials to begin and, once begun, issues may arise that will require us to suspend or terminate such clinical trials. Additionally, even if relevant regulatory authorities agree with the design and implementation of the clinical trials set forth in an IND or clinical trial application, these regulatory authorities may change their requirements in the future. The fact that we are pursuing novel technologies may also exacerbate these risks with respect to our product candidates, and as a result we may not meet our anticipated clinical development timelines.. 56. We face significant competition in the biopharmaceutical industry, and many of our competitors have substantially greater experience and resources than we have.. Even if our aNK platform products prove successful, we might not be able to remain competitive because of the rapid pace of technological development in the biopharmaceutical field. Our haNK, taNK and t-haNK product candidates will compete with other cell-based immunotherapy approaches using T- and dendritic cells. We are aware of companies developing product candidates focused on natural killer, or NK, cells. These companies include Bristol-Myers Squibb, Celgene Corporation, and Innate Pharma. Companies that are currently focused on T-cell based treatments include Adaptimmune Limited, Amgen Inc., Bellicum Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Bluebird Bio, Inc., Celgene Corporation, Cellectis SA, GlaxoSmithKline plc, Intrexon Corporation, Juno Therapeutics, Inc., Kite Pharma/Gilead Sciences, Novartis AG, Pfizer Inc. and Ziopharm Oncology, Inc. There is currently one approved dendritic cell-based cancer vaccine, PROVENGE, which is marketed by Valeant Pharmaceuticals for the treatment of metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer. Other companies focused on developing dendritic cell-based product candidates include Argos Therapeutics, Inc., Biovest International, Inc., ImmunoCellular Therapeutics, Ltd., Immune Design, Inc., Inovio Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Intrexon Corporation and Northwest Biotherapeutics, Inc.. Many of our current or potential competitors have greater financial and other resources, larger research and development staffs, and more experienced capabilities in researching, developing and testing products than we do. All of these companies also have more experience in conducting clinical trials, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals, and manufacturing, marketing and distributing therapeutic products. Smaller or early-stage companies like us may successfully compete by establishing collaborative relationships with larger pharmaceutical companies or academic institutions. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. These competitors also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel and establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient, or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. Furthermore, currently approved products could be discovered to have application for treatment of cancer and other diseases, which could give such products significant regulatory and market timing advantages over any of our product candidates.  In addition, large pharmaceutical companies or other companies with greater resources or experience than us may choose to forgo therapy opportunities that would have otherwise been complementary to our product development and collaboration plans. Our competitors may succeed in developing, obtaining patent protection for, or commercializing their products more rapidly than us, which could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market. A competing company developing or acquiring rights to a more effective therapeutic product for the same diseases targeted by us, or one that offers significantly lower costs of treatment, could render our products noncompetitive or obsolete.  We may not be successful in marketing any product candidates we may develop against competitors.. Our business plan involves the creation of a complex integrated ecosystem capable of addressing a wide range of indications. As a result, our future success depends on our ability to prioritize among many different opportunities.. We do not have sufficient resources to pursue development of all or even a substantial portion of the potential opportunities that we believe will be afforded to us by our planned integrated ecosystem. Because we have limited resources and access to capital to fund our operations, our management must make significant prioritization decisions as to which product candidates to pursue and how much of our resources to allocate to each. Our management has broad discretion to suspend, scale down, or discontinue any or all of these development efforts, or to initiate new programs to treat other diseases. If we select and commit resources to opportunities that we are unable to successfully develop, or we forego more promising opportunities, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected.. Our planned integrated ecosystem is to be comprised of multiple novel technologies that have never been tested in combination with our product candidates, and we do not know whether our attempts to use them in combination will be effective.. Our business strategy includes using our integrated discovery engine to introduce new product candidates in combination with technologies that were developed by other companies with whom we have entered into strategic collaborations. Each technology and collaboration is unique and has its own risks, and the failure of any individual technology or the combination could materially impair our ability to successfully pursue our own aNK platform and related product candidates.. Our Joint Development and License Agreement with Sorrento Therapeutics, Inc., or Sorrento, expired in December 2017.  During our exclusive term, no joint taNK product candidates were identified for development.  Although we have been free to independently pursue Her2Neu, CSPG4, CD33, CD123 GD2 and other specified antibodies during the Sorrento exclusive term and are now free to independently pursue all antibodies, we are reliant on third parties for such antibodies on which to base our taNK product candidates.  We do not know if we can obtain such antibodies from third parties on commercially reasonable terms and such reliance on third parties may delay our development and increase the associated development costs.. 57. We have also entered into collaborations with affiliates of NantWorks, LLC, or NantWorks, to provide us with access to their database of genomic, transcriptomic and proteomic information collected from a broad array of tumor cell and peripheral blood samples. Our rights to use the database are non-exclusive and are governed by agreements cancelable with 90 days' notice, and we therefore cannot guarantee that we would ultimately have any competitive advantage based on our use of this technology. The database also may not be able to identify novel tumor-associated antigens that are targetable with our technology and the genetic and proteomic analysis capability may not be effective as a companion diagnostic to guide therapeutic treatments.. Although we have agreements with these parties, we cannot control their actions and they may make mistakes, work with our competitors, or not devote sufficient time and attention to us. The arrangements may become cost-prohibitive for us, and their technologies may become obsolete or better options may be available that we are unable to utilize. Using our technology in combination with theirs has never been tried, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in producing product candidates in connection with these arrangements.. Clinical drug development involves a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome, results of earlier studies and clinical trials may not be predictive of future clinical trial results, we may not be able to rely on the aNK and haNK phase I clinical trials data for our other product candidates, and our clinical trials may fail to adequately demonstrate substantial evidence of safety and efficacy of our product candidates.. Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. The results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials of our product candidates may not be predictive of the results of later-stage clinical trials. There is a high failure rate for drugs proceeding through clinical trials, and product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the required safety and efficacy despite having progressed through preclinical studies and initial clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or adverse safety profiles, notwithstanding promising results in earlier clinical trials, and we cannot be certain that we will not face similar setbacks. Even if our clinical trials are completed, the results may not be sufficient to support obtaining regulatory approval for our product candidates. In addition, our strategy and anticipated timelines are predicated upon our ability to utilize the phase I clinical trial data for aNK and haNK observed to date to support our planned clinical trials for all of our product candidates, including our haNK and taNK product candidates. To date, we have several INDs for our haNK product candidates, and we cannot offer assurances that the FDA will allow us to utilize the phase I aNK and haNK data to support other planned clinical trials or allow our anticipated INDs for (1) planned phase I or phase Ib/IIa clinical trials for our other product candidates, (2) planned phase IIb/III clinical trials for our haNK and taNK product candidates as potential combination therapies, or (3) any other planned clinical trials, including registration studies.. We have in the past experienced delays in our ongoing clinical trials and we may experience additional delays in the future. We do not know whether future clinical trials, if any, will begin on time, need to be redesigned, enroll an adequate number of patients on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed, suspended or terminated by us, regulatory authorities, clinical trial investigators, and ethics committees for a variety of reasons, including failure to:. •  generate sufficient preclinical, toxicology, or other in vivo or in vitro data to support the initiation or continuation of clinical trials;. •  obtain regulatory approval, or feedback on clinical trial design, to commence a clinical trial;. •  identify, recruit and train suitable clinical investigators;. •  reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs and clinical trial sites;. •  obtain and maintain institutional review board, or IRB, approval at each clinical trial site;. •  identify, recruit and enroll suitable patients to participate in a clinical trial;. •  have a sufficient number of patients complete a clinical trial or return for post-treatment follow-up;. •  ensure clinical investigators observe clinical trial protocol or continue to participate in a clinical trial;. •  address any patient safety concerns that arise during the course of a clinical trial;. •  address any conflicts with new or existing laws or regulations;. •  add a sufficient number of clinical trial sites;. •  timely manufacture sufficient quantities of product candidate for use in clinical trials; or. •  raise sufficient capital to fund a clinical trial.. 58. Patient enrollment is a significant factor in the timing of clinical trials and is affected by many factors, including the size and nature of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial, the design of the clinical trial, competing clinical trials and clinicians' and patients' or caregivers' perceptions as to the potential advantages of the drug candidate being studied in relation to other available therapies, including any new drugs or treatments that may be approved for the indications we are investigating.. We could also encounter delays if a clinical trial is suspended or terminated by us, by the data safety monitoring board for such clinical trial or by the FDA or any other regulatory authority, or if the IRBs of the institutions in which such clinical trials are being conducted suspend or terminate the participation of their clinical investigators and sites subject to their review. Such authorities may suspend or terminate a clinical trial due to a number of factors, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements, including Good Clinical Practices, or GCPs, or our clinical protocols, inspection of the clinical trial operations or clinical trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold, unforeseen safety issues or adverse side effects, failure to demonstrate a benefit from using a product candidate, changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions or lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial.. If we experience delays in the completion of, or termination of, any clinical trial of our product candidates for any reason, the commercial prospects of our product candidates may be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues from any of these product candidates will be delayed. In addition, any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow down our product candidate development and approval process and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenues. Any of these occurrences may significantly harm our business, financial condition and prospects. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our product candidates.. We may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. The denial or delay of any such approval would delay commercialization and have a material adverse effect on our potential to generate revenue, our business and our results of operations.. The research, development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, approval, promotion, advertising, storage, recordkeeping, marketing, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, and export and import of biopharmaceutical products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, and by foreign regulatory authorities in other countries. These regulations differ from country to country. To gain approval to market our product candidates, we must provide regulatory authorities with substantial evidence of safety, purity and potency of the product for each indication we seek to commercialize. We have not yet obtained regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in the United States or any other country. Our business depends upon obtaining these regulatory approvals.. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of our product candidates for many reasons, including:. •  our inability to satisfactorily demonstrate with substantial clinical evidence that the product candidates are safe, pure and potent for the requested indication;. •  the FDA's disagreement with our clinical trial protocol or the interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials;. •  the population studied in the clinical trial not being sufficiently broad or representative to assess safety in the full population for which we seek approval;. •  our inability to demonstrate that clinical or other benefits of our product candidates outweigh any safety or other perceived risks;. •  the FDA's determination that additional preclinical or clinical trials are required;. •  the FDA's non-approval of the labeling or the specifications of our product candidates;. •  the FDA's failure to accept the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party manufacturers with which we contract; or. •  the potential for approval policies or regulations of the FDA to significantly change in a manner rendering our clinical data insufficient for approval.. 59. Even if we eventually successfully complete clinical testing and receive approval of any regulatory filing for our product candidates, the FDA may only grant approval contingent on the performance of costly additional post-approval clinical trials. The FDA may also approve our product candidates for a more limited indication or a narrower patient population than we originally requested, and the FDA may not approve the labeling that we believe is necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. To the extent we seek regulatory approval in foreign countries, we may face challenges similar to those described above with regulatory authorities in applicable jurisdictions. Any delay in obtaining, or our inability to obtain, applicable regulatory approval for any of our product candidates would delay or prevent commercialization of our product candidates and would materially adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.. Use of our product candidates could be associated with side effects or adverse events.. As with most biopharmaceutical products, use of our product candidates could be associated with side effects or adverse events which can vary in severity and frequency. Side effects or adverse events associated with the use of our product candidates may be observed at any time, including in clinical trials or once a product is commercialized, and any such side effects or adverse events may negatively affect our ability to obtain regulatory approval or market our product candidates. Side effects such as toxicity or other safety issues associated with the use of our product candidates could require us to perform additional studies or halt development or sale of these product candidates or expose us to product liability lawsuits which will harm our business. We may be required by regulatory agencies to conduct additional preclinical or clinical trials regarding the safety and efficacy of our product candidates which we have not planned or anticipated. We cannot assure you that we will resolve any issues related to any product-related adverse events to the satisfaction of the FDA or any regulatory agency in a timely manner or ever, which could harm our business, prospects and financial condition.. In the phase I clinical trial of aNK conducted by Rush University in 12 patients, one case of transient grade 4 hypoglycemia and several mild-to-moderate fevers were seen in five out of six patients receiving higher doses. In the phase I clinical trial of aNK in 15 patients conducted by the University of Frankfurt, one report of mild fever and a report of sustained back pain were observed.  In the phase I clinical trial of aNK in seven patients conducted at the University of Pittsburgh, one report of grade 2 fever, chills and transient hypotension, responsive to supportive care was observed. In the phase I clinical trial of aNK in 12 patients conducted at the Princess Margaret Hospital, four grade 1-2 transient fevers and chills were observed.  If we are successful in commercializing our product candidates, the FDA and other foreign regulatory agency regulations will require that we report certain information about adverse medical events if those products may have caused or contributed to those adverse events. The timing of our obligation to report would be triggered by the date we become aware of the adverse event as well as the nature of the event. We may inadvertently fail to report adverse events we become aware of within the prescribed timeframe. We may also fail to appreciate that we have become aware of a reportable adverse event, especially if it is not reported to us as an adverse event or if it is an adverse event that is unexpected or removed in time from the use of our products. If we fail to comply with our reporting obligations, the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies could take action including criminal prosecution, the imposition of civil monetary penalties, seizure of our products, or delay in approval or clearance of future products.. The clinical and commercial utility of our aNK platform is uncertain and may never be realized.. Our aNK platform is in the early stages of development. To date, aNK cells have only been evaluated in early clinical trials including four published phase I clinical safety trials in approximately 46 patients.  These clinical trials were designed to evaluate safety and tolerability, and not designed to produce statistically significant results as to efficacy. Most of the data to date regarding aNK cells were derived from clinical trials not conducted by us, including physician-sponsored clinical trials, and utilizing product not manufactured by us but which we believe is comparable to aNK.  haNK cells are presently being evaluated in 12 ongoing company sponsored clinical trials and we are still very early in enrollment.  Success in early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful nor does it predict final results. In addition, we will not be able to treat patients if we cannot manufacture a sufficient quantity of NK cells that meet our minimum specifications. In addition, our haNK and Her2.taNK product candidates have only been tested in a small number of patients Results from these clinical trials may not necessarily be indicative of the safety and tolerability or efficacy of our products as we expand into larger clinical trials.. We may not ultimately be able to provide the FDA with substantial clinical evidence to support a claim of safety, purity and potency sufficient to enable the FDA to approve aNK platform product candidates for any indication. This may be because later clinical trials fail to reproduce favorable data obtained in earlier clinical trials, because the FDA disagrees with how we interpret the data from these clinical trials, or because the FDA does not accept these therapeutic effects as valid endpoints in pivotal clinical trials necessary for market approval. We will also need to demonstrate that aNK platform product candidates are safe. We do not have data on possible harmful long-term effects of aNK platform product candidates and do not expect to have this data in the near future. As a result, our ability to generate clinical safety and effectiveness data sufficient to support submission of a marketing application or commercialization of our aNK platform therapy is uncertain and is subject to significant risk.. 60. We have limited experience as a company conducting clinical trials and have relied on third parties to conduct many of our preclinical studies and clinical trials. Any failure by a third party or by us to conduct the clinical trials according to Good Clinical Practices and in a timely manner may delay or prevent our ability to seek or obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates.. To date, the only company sponsored studies have been in Merkel cell carcinoma, pancreatic cancer and haNK in advanced solid tumor. All four completed phase I clinical trials with aNK have been investigator-initiated studies sponsored by the investigator's institution. Ten additional INDs for new phase Ib/II clinical trials in various indications are newly opened, but not yet recruiting. This relative lack of experience may contribute to our planned clinical trials not beginning or completing on time, if at all. Large-scale clinical trials will require significant additional resources and reliance on contract research organizations, or CROs, clinical investigators, or consultants. Consequently, our reliance on outside parties may introduce delays beyond our control. Our CROs and other third parties must communicate and coordinate with one another in order for our trials to be successful. Additionally, our CROs and other third parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If our CROs or other third parties conducting our clinical trials do not perform their contractual duties or regulatory obligations, experience work stoppages, do not meet expected deadlines, terminate their agreements with us or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical trial protocols, GCPs, or other regulatory requirements or for any other reason, we may need to conduct additional clinical trials or enter into new arrangements with alternative CROs, clinical investigators or other third parties. We may be unable to enter into arrangements with alternative CROs on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.. We and the third parties upon which we rely are required to comply with GCPs. GCPs are regulations and guidelines enforced by regulatory authorities around the world, through periodic inspections, for products in clinical development. If we or these third parties fail to comply with applicable GCP regulations, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and have to be repeated, and our submission of marketing applications may be delayed or the regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We are subject to the risk that, upon inspection, a regulatory authority will determine that any of our clinical trials fail to comply or failed to comply with applicable GCP regulations. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with material produced under GMP and Good Tissue Practice, or GTP, regulations, which are enforced by regulatory authorities. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with material produced under GMP regulations, which are enforced by regulatory authorities. Our failure to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. Moreover, our business may be significantly impacted if our CROs, clinical investigators or other third parties violate federal or state healthcare fraud and abuse or false claims laws and regulations or healthcare privacy and security laws.. We also anticipate that part of our strategy for pursuing the wide range of indications potentially addressed by our aNK, haNK, taNK and t-haNK platforms will involve further investigator-initiated clinical trials. While these trials generally provide us with valuable clinical data that can inform our future development strategy in a cost-efficient manner, we generally have less control over not only the conduct but also the design of these clinical trials. Third-party investigators may design clinical trials involving our product candidates with clinical endpoints that are more difficult to achieve or in other ways that increase the risk of negative clinical trial results compared to clinical trials we may design on our own. Negative results in investigator-initiated clinical trials, regardless of how the clinical trial was designed or conducted, could have a material adverse effect on our prospects and the perception of our product candidates.. Moreover, principal investigators for our clinical trials may serve as scientific advisors or consultants to us from time to time and receive compensation in connection with such services. In addition, some of our trials are being run by an entity controlled by our employees.  Under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to report some of these relationships to the FDA. The FDA may conclude that a financial relationship between the company and a principal investigator has created a conflict of interest or otherwise affected interpretation of the study. The FDA may therefore question the integrity of the data generated at the applicable clinical trial site and the utility of the clinical trial itself may be jeopardized. This could result in a delay in approval, or rejection, of our marketing applications by the FDA and may ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of one or more of our product candidates.. We have not initiated any development of our taNK product candidates through our collaboration with Sorrento, which expired in December 2017.  Accordingly, we will not receive any benefits as a result of this collaboration.. Our Joint Development and License Agreement with Sorrento Therapeutics, Inc., or Sorrento, expired in December 2017.  During our exclusive term, no joint taNK product candidates were identified for development.  Although we have been free to independently pursue Her2Neu, CSPG4, CD33, CD123 GD2 and other specified antibodies during the Sorrento exclusive term and are now free to independently pursue all antibodies, we are reliant on third parties for such antibodies on which to base our taNK product candidates.  We do not know if we can obtain such antibodies from third parties on commercially reasonable terms and such reliance on third parties may delay our development and increase the associated development costs.. 61. We are heavily dependent on our senior management, particularly Drs. Patrick Soon-Shiong and Barry Simon, and a loss of a member of our senior management team in the future could harm our business.. If we lose members of our senior management, we may not be able to find appropriate replacements on a timely basis, and our business could be adversely affected. Our existing operations and continued future development depend to a significant extent upon the performance and active participation of certain key individuals, including Drs. Patrick Soon-Shiong, our Chairman and CEO and our principal stockholder, and Barry Simon, our President and Chief Administrative Officer. Although Dr. Soon-Shiong will primarily focus on NantKwest matters and is highly active in our management, he does devote a certain amount of his time to a number of different endeavors and companies, including NantWorks, a collection of multiple companies in the healthcare and technology space, which he founded in 2011. The risks related to our dependence upon Dr. Soon-Shiong are particularly acute given his ownership percentage, the commercial and other relationships that we have with entities affiliated with him, role in our company and reputation. If we were to lose Drs. Soon-Shiong or Simon, we may not be able to find appropriate replacements on a timely basis and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. Competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology and pharmaceuticals industry is intense due to the limited number of individuals who possess the skills and experience required.  To induce valuable employees to remain at our company, in addition to salary and cash incentives, we have provided stock options and warrants that vest over time. Additionally, we provided warrants that vest upon the achievement of certain performance milestones to Dr. Soon-Shiong. The value to employees of stock options and warrants that vest over time may be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that are beyond our control, and may at any time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. Despite our efforts to retain valuable employees, members of our management, scientific and development teams may terminate their employment with us on short notice. We face significant competition for employees, particularly scientific personnel, from other biopharmaceutical companies, which include both publicly-traded and privately-held companies, and we may not be able to hire new employees quickly enough to meet our needs. Although we have employment agreements with our key employees, these employment agreements provide for at-will employment, which means that any of our employees could leave our employment at any time, with or without notice. Except with respect to Dr. Simon, we do not maintain \"key man\" insurance policies on the lives of these individuals or the lives of any of our other employees.  We may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms, or at all, which may cause our business and operating results to suffer.. Dr. Soon-Shiong, our Chairman and CEO and our principal stockholder, has significant interests in other companies which may conflict with our interests.. Our Chairman and CEO, Dr. Soon-Shiong, is the founder of NantWorks. The various NantWorks companies are currently exploring opportunities in the immunotherapy, infectious disease and inflammatory disease fields. In particular, we have agreements with NantOmics, LLC (\"NantOmics\"), NanoCav, LLC (\"NanoCav\"), NantCell, Inc. (\"NantCell\"), NantBio, Inc. (\"NantBio\"), VivaBioCell S.p.A. (\"VivaBioCell\"), and Altor BioScience Corporation (\"Altor\") to provide services, technology and equipment for use in our efforts to develop our product pipeline. Dr. Soon-Shiong holds a controlling interest in these entities.  As a result, they or other companies affiliated with Dr. Soon-Shiong may compete with us for business opportunities or, in the future, develop products that are competitive with ours (including products in the other therapeutic fields in which we may target in the future). In addition, we may enter into an agreement relating to an IL-15 superagonist product developed by an affiliate and we are also pursuing supply arrangements for various investigational agents controlled by affiliates to be used in our clinical trials. If Dr. Soon-Shiong was to cease his affiliation with us or with NantWorks, these entities may be unwilling to continue these relationships with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and as a result may impede our ability to control the supply chain for our combination therapies. These collaboration agreements do not typically specify how sales will be apportioned between the parties upon successful commercialization of the product.  As a result, we cannot guarantee that we will receive a percentage of the revenue that is at least proportional to the costs that we will incur in commercializing the product candidate.. In addition, in April 2017, we entered into a sublease agreement with Tensorcom, Inc., or Tensorcom, related to our San Diego, California, research and development laboratory and office space, with an initial lease from May 1, 2017 through April 30, 2018.  In January 2018, we entered into another sublease agreement with NantBio, Inc., or NantBio, related to our San Diego, California, facility.  This agreement for space and services was effective as of December 1, 2017 for a term of 24 months.  Our Chairman and CEO indirectly owns all of the outstanding equity of Tensorcom and a controlling interest in NantBio. As a result Dr. Soon-Shiong's interests may not be aligned with our other stockholders and he may from time to time be incentivized to take certain actions that benefit his other interests and that our other stockholders do not view as being in their interest as investors in our company. Moreover, even if they do not directly relate to us, actions taken by Dr. Soon-Shiong and the companies with which he is involved could impact us. Given we changed our corporate name to NantKwest during 2015, this is particularly true of the various NantWorks companies.. 62. We will need to grow the size and capabilities of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth.. To effect our business plan, we will need to rapidly add other management, accounting, regulatory, manufacturing and scientific staff. As of December 31, 2017, we had 139 employees. We will need to attract, retain and motivate a significant number of new additional managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial, and other personnel, as well as highly skilled scientific and medical personnel, and to expand our capabilities to successfully pursue our research, development, manufacturing and commercialization efforts and secure collaborations to market and distribute our products. This growth may strain our existing managerial, operational, financial and other resources. We also intend to add personnel in our research and development and manufacturing departments as we expand our clinical trial and research capabilities. Moreover, we will need to hire additional accounting and other personnel and augment our infrastructure as a result of operating as a public company. Any inability to attract and retain qualified employees to enable our planned growth and establish additional capabilities or our failure to manage our growth effectively could delay or curtail our product development and commercialization efforts and harm our business.. We have limited manufacturing experience and may not be able to manufacture haNK or taNK cells on a large scale or in a cost-effective manner.. haNK and Her2.taNK cells have been grown in various quantities in closed cell culture systems and small scale bioreactors. With all manufacturing efforts being conducted in-house, we will need to develop the ability to grow haNK and taNK cells on a large scale basis in a cost efficient manner. While we have made great strides with our haNK production, including a validated cryopreserved form of the product, we have not demonstrated the ability to manufacture these cells beyond quantities sufficient for our clinical programs. We have not demonstrated the ability to manufacture our taNK cells beyond quantities sufficient for research and development and limited clinical activities.  Additionally, we have no experience manufacturing our NK cells specifically at the capacity that will be necessary to support commercial sales. The novel nature of our technology also increases the complexity and risk in the manufacturing process. We have opened our Culver City, California, site for the manufacture of cryopreserved haNK cells for our planned clinical trials and plan to open our larger El Segundo, California, site in 2018 for the manufacture of all of our haNK and taNK cells for our clinical trials and, if we receive FDA approval, initial commercialization. However, we may encounter difficulties in obtaining the approvals for, and designing, constructing, validating and operating, any new manufacturing facility. We may also be unable to hire the qualified personnel that we will require to accommodate the expansion of our operations and manufacturing capabilities. If we relocate our manufacturing activities to a new facility during or after a pivotal clinical trial, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval unless and until we demonstrate to the FDA's satisfaction the similarity of our haNK and taNK cells manufactured in the new facility to our cells manufactured in prior facilities. If we cannot adequately demonstrate similarity to the FDA, we could be required to repeat clinical trials, which would be expensive, and would substantially delay regulatory approval.. Because our product candidates are cell-based, their manufacture is complicated. In addition, we rely on certain third party suppliers for manufacturing supplies such as X-VIVO 10 media to grow and produce our cells. Reliance on such third-party suppliers exposes us to supply interruptions and shortages that could have an adverse effect on our ability to produce product.  Moreover, our present production process may not meet our initial expectations as to reproducibility, yield, purity or other measurements of performance. Any supply interruption from third parties and entities that are affiliated with Patrick Soon-Shiong and/or NantWorks could materially harm our ability to manufacture our product candidates until a new source of supply, if any, could be identified and qualified. We may be unable to find a sufficient alternative supply channel in a reasonable time or on commercially reasonable terms.  In addition, we may have to customize a bioreactor system to our manufacturing process. Because our manufacturing process is unproven, we may never successfully commercialize our products. In addition, because the clinical trials were conducted using a system that will not be sufficient for commercial quantities, we may have to show comparability of the different versions of systems we have used. For these and other reasons, we may not be able to manufacture haNK and taNK cells on a large scale or in a cost-effective manner.. aNK platform cells have been produced at academic institutions associated with our other clinical trial sites. In the past, the lack of production of aNK platform cells has caused delays in the commencement of our clinical trials.. We have been establishing NK cell production capacity to meet anticipated demand for our planned clinical trials but may not be able to successfully build out our capacity to meet our current and anticipated future needs. Any damage to or destruction of our facility and equipment, prolonged power outage, contamination or shut down by the FDA or other regulatory authority could significantly impair or curtail our ability to produce haNK and taNK cells.. 63. We are dependent on third parties to store our aNK, haNK, taNK or t-haNK cells, and any damage or loss to our master cell bank would cause delays in replacement, and our business could suffer.. The aNK cells of our master and working cell banks are stored in freezers at a third party biorepository (BioReliance) and also stored in our freezers at our production facility. If these cells are damaged at both facilities, including by the loss or malfunction of these freezers or our back-up power systems, as well as by damage from fire, power loss or other natural disasters, we would need to establish replacement master and working cell banks, which would impact clinical supply and delay our patients' treatments. If we are unable to establish replacement cell banks, we could incur significant additional expenses and liability to patients whose treatment is delayed, and our business could suffer.. If we or any of our third party manufacturers that we may use do not maintain high standards of manufacturing, our ability to develop and commercialize haNK, taNK or t-haNK cells could be delayed or curtailed.. We and any third parties that we may use in the future to manufacture our products must continuously adhere to cGMP regulations rigorously enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. If our facilities or the facilities of third parties who we may use in the future to produce our products do not pass a pre-approval inspection, the FDA will not grant market approval for haNK, taNK or t-haNK cells. In complying with cGMP, we and any third-party manufacturers must expend significant time, money and effort in production, record-keeping and quality control to assure that each component of our haNK, taNK or t-haNK cell therapies meets applicable specifications and other requirements. We or any of these third-party manufacturers may also be subject to comparable or more stringent regulations of foreign regulatory authorities. If we or any of our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to regulatory action, which could delay or curtail our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval of, and commercialize haNK, taNK or t-haNK cells. If our component part manufacturers and suppliers fail to provide components of sufficient quality, and that meet our required specifications, our clinical trials or commercialization of haNK, taNK or t-haNK cells could be delayed or halted, and we could face product liability claims.. If we or our third-party manufacturers that we may engage use hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages.. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous substances, including chemical and biological materials, by us and any third-party manufacturers that we may use in the future. We and our manufacturers are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of medical and hazardous materials. Although we believe that our procedures for using, storing and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from medical or hazardous materials. As a result of any such contamination or injury, we may incur liability or local, city, state or federal authorities may curtail the use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from medical or hazardous materials. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts, which could harm our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations.. We have not yet developed a validated methodology for freezing and thawing large quantities of taNK cells, which we believe will be required for the storage and distribution of our taNK product candidates.. We have not demonstrated that taNK cells can be frozen and thawed in large quantities without damage, in a cost-efficient manner and without degradation over time. We may encounter difficulties not only in developing freezing and thawing methodologies, but also in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for using such methodologies in treatment. If we cannot adequately demonstrate similarity of our frozen product to the unfrozen form to the satisfaction of the FDA, we could face substantial delays in our regulatory approvals. If we are unable to freeze taNK cells for shipping purposes, our ability to promote adoption and standardization of our products, as well as achieve economies of scale by centralizing our production facility, will be limited. Even if we are able to successfully freeze and thaw taNK cells in large quantities, we will still need to develop a cost-effective and reliable distribution and logistics network, which we may be unable to accomplish. For these and other reasons, we may not be able to commercialize haNK or taNK cells on a large scale or in a cost-effective manner.. We will rely on third party healthcare professionals to administer haNK or taNK cells to patients, and our business could be harmed if these third parties administer these cells incorrectly.. We will rely on the expertise of physicians, nurses and other associated medical personnel to administer haNK or taNK cells to clinical trial patients. If these medical personnel are not properly trained to administer, or do not properly administer, haNK or taNK cells, the therapeutic effect of haNK or taNK cells may be diminished or the patient may suffer injury.. 64. In addition, if we achieve the ability to freeze and thaw our taNK cells, third-party medical personnel will have to be trained on proper methodology for thawing haNK or taNK cells received from us. If this thawing is not performed correctly, the cells may become damaged and/or the patient may suffer injury. While we intend to provide training materials and other resources to these third-party medical personnel, the thawing of haNK or taNK cells will occur outside our supervision and may not be administered properly. If, due to a third-party error, people believe that haNK or taNK cells are ineffective or harmful, the desire to use haNK or taNK cells may decline, which would negatively impact our business, reputation and prospects. We may also face significant liability even though we may not be responsible for the actions of these third parties.. Even if any of our product candidates receive regulatory approvals, they may fail to achieve the broad degree of market acceptance and use necessary for commercial success.. Any potential future commercial success of any of our product candidates will depend, among other things, on its acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors, and other members of the medical community as a therapeutic and cost-effective alternative to commercially available products. Because only a few cell-based therapy products have been commercialized, we do not know to what extent cell-based immunotherapy products will be accepted as therapeutic alternatives. If we fail to gain market acceptance, we may not be able to earn sufficient revenues to continue our business. Market acceptance of, and demand for, any product that we may develop, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on many factors, including:. •  our ability to provide substantial evidence of safety and efficacy;. •  convenience and ease of administration;. •  prevalence and severity of adverse side effects;. •  availability of alternative and competing treatments;. •  cost effectiveness;. •  the ability to offer appropriate patient access programs, such as co-pay assistance;. •  the extent to which physicians recommend our products to their patients;. •  effectiveness of our marketing and distribution strategy and pricing of any product that we may develop;. •  publicity concerning our products or competitive products; and. •  our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage and adequate reimbursement.. If haNK and taNK cells are approved for use but fail to achieve the broad degree of market acceptance necessary for commercial success, our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. In addition, even if haNK and taNK cells gain acceptance, the markets for treatment of patients with our target indications may not be as significant as we estimate.. Even if we are able to commercialize any product candidates, such products may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which would harm our business.. The regulations that govern marketing approvals, pricing and reimbursement for new drugs vary widely from country to country. In the United States, recently enacted legislation may significantly change the approval requirements in ways that could involve additional costs and cause delays in obtaining approvals. Some countries require approval of the sale price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, the pricing review period begins after marketing or product licensing approval is granted. In some foreign markets, prescription pharmaceutical pricing remains subject to continuing governmental control even after initial approval is granted. As a result, we might obtain marketing approval for a product in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations that delay the commercial launch of the product and negatively impact the revenue we are able to generate from the sale of the product in that country. Adverse pricing limitations may hinder our ability to recoup our investment in one or more product candidates, even if any product candidates we may develop obtain marketing approval.. 65. Our ability to successfully commercialize any products that we may develop also will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for these products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which medications they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. A primary trend in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. Government authorities and third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. Reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of, any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. Government authorities also impose mandatory discounts for certain patient groups and may seek to increase such discounts at any time. Future regulation may negatively impact the price of our products, if approved. It may be difficult to promptly obtain coverage and profitable payment rates from both the government-funded and private payors for any of our approved product candidates, and this may have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital and our overall financial condition.. There are risks inherent in our business that may subject us to potential product liability suits and other claims, which may require us to engage in expensive and time-consuming litigation or pay substantial damages and may harm our reputation and reduce the demand for our product.. Our business exposes us to product liability risks, which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of biopharmaceutical products. We will face an even greater risk of product liability if we commercialize haNK, taNK and t-haNK cells. For example, we may be sued if any product we develop allegedly causes or is perceived to cause injury or is found to be otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Any such product liability claims may include allegations of defects in manufacturing, defects in design, a failure to warn of dangers inherent in the product, negligence, strict liability and a breach of warranties. Claims could also be asserted under state consumer protection acts. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Even a successful defense would require significant financial and management resources.. Certain aspects of how haNK, taNK and t-haNK cells are processed and administered may increase our exposure to liability. Medical personnel administer haNK, taNK and t-haNK cells to patients intravenously in an outpatient procedure. This procedure poses risks to the patient similar to those occurring with infusions of other cell products, such as T-cells and stem cells, including blood clots, infection and mild to severe allergic reactions. Additionally, haNK, taNK and t-haNK cells or components of our haNK, taNK and t-haNK cell therapy may cause unforeseen harmful side effects. For example, a patient receiving haNK, taNK and t-haNK cells could have a severe allergic reaction or could develop an autoimmune condition to materials infused with the haNK, taNK t-haNK cells.. In addition, we have not conducted studies on the long-term effects associated with the media that we use to grow our haNK, taNK and t-haNK cells. Similarly, we expect to use media in freezing our haNK, taNK and t-haNK cells for shipment. These media could contain substances that have proved harmful if used in certain quantities. As we continue to develop our haNK, taNK and t-haNK cell therapy, we may encounter harmful side effects that we did not previously observe in our prior studies and clinical trials. Additionally, the discovery of unforeseen side effects of haNK, taNK and t-haNK cells could also lead to lawsuits against us.. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability or other claims may, among other things, result in:. •  decreased demand for any approved products;. •  injury to our reputation and significant negative media attention;. •  withdrawal of clinical trial participants or cancellation of clinical trials;. •  costs to defend the related litigation;. •  a diversion of management's time and our resources;. •  substantial monetary awards to clinical trial participants or patients;. •  regulatory investigations, product recalls, withdrawals or labeling, marketing or promotional restrictions;. •  exhaustion of any available insurance and our capital resources;. •  loss of revenue;. •  a potential decrease in our share price; and. •  the inability to commercialize any products we develop.. 66. Our inability to obtain and maintain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost and scope of coverage to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. We obtained product liability insurance covering our clinical trials with policy limits that we believe are customary for similarly situated companies and adequate to provide us with coverage for foreseeable risks. Although we maintain such insurance, any claim that may be brought against us could result in a court judgment or settlement in an amount that is not covered, in whole or in part, by our insurance or that is in excess of the limits of our insurance coverage. If we determine that it is prudent to increase our product liability coverage due to the commercial launch of any approved product, we may be unable to obtain such increased coverage on acceptable terms, or at all. Our insurance policies also have various exclusions and deductibles, and we may be subject to a product liability claim for which we have no coverage. We will have to pay any amounts awarded by a court or negotiated in a settlement that exceed our coverage limitations or that are not covered by our insurance, and we may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient capital to pay such amounts. Moreover, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses. If and when we obtain approval for marketing our product candidates, we intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of the applicable products; however, we may be unable to obtain this liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms. If a successful product liability or other claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, our assets may not be sufficient to cover these claims and our business operations could suffer.. We currently have no marketing and sales organization and have no experience in marketing products. If we are unable to establish marketing and sales capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, we may not be able to generate product revenue.. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities and have no experience as a company in marketing products. If we develop internal sales, marketing and distribution organization, this would require significant capital expenditures, management resources and time, and we would have to compete with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to recruit, hire, train and retain marketing and sales personnel.. If we are unable or decide not to establish internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, we expect to pursue collaborative arrangements regarding the sales, marketing and distribution of our products. However, we may not be able to establish or maintain such collaborative arrangements, or if we are able to do so, their sales forces may not be successful in marketing our products. Any revenue we receive would depend upon the efforts of such third parties, which may not be successful. We may have little or no control over the sales, marketing and distribution efforts of such third parties and our revenue from product sales may be lower than if we had commercialized our product candidates ourselves. We also face competition in our search for third parties to assist us with the sales, marketing and distribution efforts of our product candidates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop internal sales, marketing distribution capabilities or establish or maintain relationships with third-party collaborators to commercialize any product in the United States or overseas.. A variety of risks associated with marketing our product candidates internationally could materially adversely affect our business.. We plan to seek regulatory approval of our product candidates outside of the United States and, accordingly, we expect that we will be subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries if we obtain the necessary approvals, including:. •  differing regulatory requirements in foreign countries;. •  unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers, price and exchange controls and other regulatory requirements;. •  economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;. •  compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad;. •  foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes;. •  foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenue, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country;. •  difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations;. •  workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States;. •  differing payor reimbursement regimes, governmental payors or patient self-pay systems, and price controls;. •  potential liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 or comparable foreign regulations;. •  challenges enforcing our contractual and intellectual property rights, especially in those foreign countries that do not respect and protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States;. 67. •  production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and. •  business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism.. These and other risks associated with international operations may materially adversely affect our ability to attain or maintain profitable operations.. We have formed, and may in the future form or seek, strategic alliances or enter into additional licensing arrangements in the future, and we may not realize the benefits of such alliances or licensing arrangements.. We have formed, and may in the future form or seek, strategic alliances, create joint ventures or collaborations or enter into additional licensing arrangements with third parties that we believe will complement or augment our development and commercialization efforts with respect to our product candidates and any future product candidates that we may develop.  For example, we entered into an agreement whereby Viracta granted to us exclusive world-wide rights to Viracta's phase II drug candidate, VRx-3996, for use in combination with our platform of natural killer cell therapies.  However, if Viracta fails to raise sufficient capital to complete their pivotal phase II trial, if their trial is unsuccessful, or if our future clinical trial of NK cell therapy in combination with VRx-3996 fails, the value of the Viracta license would be materially adversely affected.. Any of these relationships may require us to incur non-recurring and other charges, increase our near and long-term expenditures, issue securities that dilute our existing stockholders or disrupt our management and business. In addition, we face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic partners and the negotiation process is time-consuming and complex. Moreover, we may not be successful in our efforts to establish a strategic partnership or other alternative arrangements for our product candidates because they may be deemed to be at too early of a stage of development for collaborative effort and third parties may not view our product candidates as having the requisite potential to demonstrate safety and efficacy. If we license products or businesses, we may not be able to realize the benefit of such transactions if we are unable to successfully integrate them with our existing operations and company culture. We cannot be certain that, following a strategic transaction or license, we will achieve the revenue or specific net income that justifies such transaction. Any delays in entering into new strategic partnership agreements related to our product candidates could delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates in certain geographies for certain indications, which would harm our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Our internal computer systems, or those used by our contractors or consultants, may fail or suffer security breaches.. Our business model involves the storage and transmission of clinical trial and other data on our systems and on the systems of our consultants and contractors, and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, governmental fines and penalties, litigation and/or potential liability, in addition to negative publicity. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses and unauthorized access. Our security measures and those of our contractors and consultants may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. If such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our development programs and our business operations. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed, ongoing or future clinical trials could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. Likewise, we rely on affiliated entities and third parties for research and development of our product candidates and to conduct clinical trials and may rely on third parties for the manufacture of our product candidates and similar events relating to their computer systems could also have a material adverse effect on our business.. We expect that these risks and exposures related to our internal computer systems will remain high for the foreseeable future due to the rapidly evolving nature and sophistication of cyber threats to our internal computer systems.  There can be no assurance that our efforts to implement adequate security measures will remain sufficient to protect the Company against future cyber attacks. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability, suffer damage to our reputation, the further development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed and our stock price could decline.. Future acquisitions and investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results.. Our success may depend, in part, on our ability to expand our products and services. In some circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses and technologies rather than through, or in conjunction with, internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. The risks we face in connection with acquisitions include:. •  diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition integration challenges;. •  retention of key employees from the acquired company;. 68. •  coordination of research and development functions;. •  integration of the acquired company's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems;. •  liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property infringement claims, employee disputes, and alleged violations of laws; and. •  unanticipated write-offs or charges.. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. Future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, incremental operating expenses or the write-off of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition or operating results.. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses.. Our operations, and those of our contractors and consultants, could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, acts of terrorism, acts of war and other natural or man-made disasters or business interruptions, for which we are predominantly self-insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our operations and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. We may rely on third-party manufacturers to produce and process our product candidates. Our ability to obtain clinical supplies of our product candidates could be disrupted if the operations of these suppliers are affected by a man-made or natural disaster or other business interruption. Our corporate headquarters are in California near major earthquake faults and fire zones. Our operations and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake, fire or other natural disaster.. Our employees, affiliates, independent contractors, clinical investigators, CROs, data safety and monitoring boards, consultants, commercial partners and vendors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements, and insider trading.. We are exposed to the risk of employee fraud, misconduct or other illegal activity by our employees, affiliates, independent contractors, clinical investigators, CROs, data safety and monitoring boards, consultants, commercial partners and vendors. Misconduct by these parties could include intentional, reckless and/or negligent conduct that fails to:. •  comply with the laws of the FDA and other similar foreign regulatory bodies;. •  provide true, complete and accurate information to the FDA and other similar foreign regulatory bodies;. •  comply with manufacturing standards we have established;. •  comply with healthcare fraud and abuse, privacy and security and other laws in the United States and similar foreign fraudulent misconduct laws;. •  comply with federal securities laws regulating insider trading; or. •  report financial information or data accurately or to disclose unauthorized activities to us.. 69. If we obtain FDA approval of any of our product candidates and begin commercializing those products in the United States, our potential exposure under such laws will increase significantly, and our costs associated with compliance with such laws are also likely to increase. These laws may impact, among other things, our current activities with principal investigators and research patients, as well as proposed and future sales, marketing and education programs. In particular, the promotion, sales and marketing of healthcare items and services, as well as certain business arrangements in the healthcare industry, are subject to extensive laws designed to prevent fraud, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, structuring and commission(s), certain customer incentive programs and other business arrangements generally. Activities subject to these laws also include the collection and/or use of information obtained in the course of patient recruitment for clinical trials. The healthcare laws that may affect our ability to operate include, but are not limited to:. •  the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or providing any remuneration (including any kickback, bribe, or rebate), directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward, or in return for, either the referral of an individual, or the purchase, lease, order or recommendation of any good, facility, item or service for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs;. •  federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, including the civil False Claims Act, which impose criminal and civil penalties against individuals or entities for, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment or approval from the federal government including Medicare and Medicaid, that are false or fraudulent or knowingly making a false statement to improperly avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government;. •  the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which created additional federal criminal statutes that prohibit, among other actions, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any of the money or property owned by, or under the custody or control of, any healthcare benefit program, regardless of the payor (e.g., public or private), and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up by any trick or device a material fact or making any materially false statements in connection with the delivery of, or payment for, healthcare benefits, items or services relating to healthcare matters;. •  HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, or HITECH, and their respective implementing regulations, which impose requirements, including mandatory contractual terms, on certain covered healthcare providers, health plans, and healthcare clearinghouses as well as their respective business associates that perform services for them that involve the use, or disclosure of, individually identifiable health information, relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information;. •  the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, created under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care Education Reconciliation Act, which we refer to collectively as ACA, and its implementing regulations, which require certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologicals and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the United States Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, information related to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members by the 90th day of each subsequent calendar year, and disclosure of such information will be made by HHS on a publicly available website; and. •  federal consumer protection and unfair competition laws, which broadly regulate marketplace activities and activities that potentially harm consumers.. Additionally, we are subject to state and foreign laws and regulations that are analogous to the healthcare laws and regulations described above, among others, some of which may be broader in scope and may apply regardless of the payor. Some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry's voluntary compliance guidelines and relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government; some state laws require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; and some state and foreign laws govern the privacy and security of health information in ways that differ, and in certain cases are more stringent than, HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts.. 70. We have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics, but it is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent inappropriate conduct may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements will comply with applicable healthcare laws may involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental and enforcement authorities will conclude that our business practices do not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law interpreting applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of civil, criminal and/or administrative penalties, damages, disgorgement, monetary fines, possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, and curtailment of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations. Defending against any such actions can be costly, time-consuming, and may require significant financial and personnel resources. Therefore, even if we are successful in defending against any such actions that may be brought against us, our business may be impaired.. Competing generic medicinal products or biosimilars may be approved.. In the E.U., there exists a process for approval of generic biological medicinal products once patent protection and other forms of data and market exclusivity have expired. Arrangements for approval of biosimilar products exist in the United States, as well. Other jurisdictions are considering adopting legislation that would allow the approval of generic biological medicinal products. If generic medicinal products are approved, competition from such products may substantially reduce sales of our products.. Public opinion and scrutiny of cell-based immunotherapy approaches may impact public perception of our company and product candidates, or may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and our business plans.. Our platform utilizes a relatively novel technology involving the genetic modification of human cells and utilization of those modified cells in other individuals, and no NK cell-based immunotherapy has been approved to date. Public perception may be influenced by claims, such as claims that cell-based immunotherapy is unsafe, unethical, or immoral and, consequently, our approach may not gain the acceptance of the public or the medical community. Negative public reaction to cell-based immunotherapy in general could result in greater government regulation and stricter labeling requirements of cell-based immunotherapy products, including any of our product candidates, and could cause a decrease in the demand for any products we may develop. Adverse public attitudes may adversely impact our ability to enroll clinical trials. Moreover, our success will depend upon physicians specializing in the treatment of those diseases that our product candidates target prescribing, and their patients being willing to receive, treatments that involve the use of our product candidates in lieu of, or in addition to, existing treatments they are already familiar with and for which greater clinical data may be available. More restrictive government regulations or negative public opinion could have an adverse effect on our business or financial condition and may delay or impair the development and commercialization of our product candidates or demand for any products we may develop. Adverse events in our clinical trials, even if not ultimately attributable to our product candidates, and the resulting publicity could result in increased governmental regulation, unfavorable public perception, potential regulatory delays in the testing or approval of our potential product candidates, stricter labeling requirements for those product candidates that are approved and a decrease in demand for any such product candidates.. Our business may be materially affected by changes to fiscal and tax policies. Negative or unexpected tax consequences could adversely affect our results of operations.. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 was approved by Congress on December 20, 2017. This legislation will make significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Such changes include a reduction in the corporate tax rate and limitations on certain corporate deductions and credits, among other changes. Certain of these changes could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, adverse changes in financial outlook of our operations or changes in tax law could lead to changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets on our consolidated balance sheets, which could materially affect our results of operations.. Risks Relating to Government Regulation. We may fail to obtain or may experience delays in obtaining regulatory approval to market our aNK platform product candidates, which will significantly harm our business.. We do not have the necessary approval to market or sell aNK platform products in the United States or any foreign market. Before marketing aNK platform product candidates, we must successfully complete extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials and rigorous regulatory approval procedures. We cannot offer assurances that we will apply for or obtain the necessary regulatory approval to commercialize aNK platform product candidates in a timely manner, or at all.. 71. Conducting clinical trials is uncertain and expensive and often takes many years to complete. The results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials are often not predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. In conducting clinical trials, we may fail to establish the effectiveness of haNK, taNK and haNK cells for the targeted indication or we may discover unforeseen side effects. Moreover, clinical trials may require the enrollment of large numbers of patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. Clinical trials are also often subject to unanticipated delays. In addition, haNK, taNK and t-haNK cells are produced in small scale cell culture systems and we may be unable to adapt the production method to large scale production systems. Also, patients participating in the trials may die before completion of the clinical trial or suffer adverse medical effects unrelated to treatment with haNK, taNK and t-haNK cells. This could delay or lead to termination of our clinical trials. A number of companies in the biotechnology industry have suffered significant setbacks in every stage of clinical trials, even in advanced clinical trials after positive results in earlier clinical trials.. To date, the FDA has approved only a few cell-based therapies for commercialization. The processes and requirements imposed by the FDA may cause delays and additional costs in obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates. Because our aNK platform product is novel, and cell-based therapies are relatively new, regulatory agencies may lack experience in evaluating product candidates like our aNK platform products. This inexperience may lengthen the regulatory review process, increase our development costs and delay or prevent commercialization of our aNK platform products. In addition, the following factors may impede or delay our ability to obtain timely regulatory approvals, if at all:. •  our limited experience in filing and pursuing Biologics License Applications, or BLAs, necessary to gain regulatory approvals related to genetically modified cancer cell line therapies;. •  any failure to develop substantial evidence of clinical efficacy and safety, and to develop quality standards;. •  a decision by us or regulators to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks;. •  regulatory inspections of our clinical trials, clinical trial sites or manufacturing facilities, which may, among other things, require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical trials if investigators find us not to be in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements;. •  our ability to produce sufficient quantities of haNK or taNK cells to complete our clinical trials;. •  varying interpretations of the data generated from our clinical trials; and. •  changes in governmental regulations or administrative action.. Any delays in, or termination of, our clinical trials could materially and adversely affect our development and collaboration timelines, which may cause our stock price to decline. If we do not complete clinical trials for haNK, taNK and t-haNK cells and seek and obtain regulatory approvals, we may not be able to recover any of the substantial costs we have invested in the development of haNK, taNK and t-haNK cells.. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals for aNK related platform products, those approvals and ongoing regulation of our products may limit how we manufacture and market our products, which could prevent us from realizing the full benefit of our efforts.. If we obtain regulatory approvals, our aNK platform products, and our manufacturing facilities will be subject to continual regulatory review, including periodic unannounced inspections, by the FDA and other United States and foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, regulatory authorities may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies. aNK platform product candidates would also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping and submission of safety and other post-market information. These and other factors may significantly restrict our ability to successfully commercialize haNK and taNK cell therapies.. Manufacturers of biopharmaceutical products and their facilities, vendors and suppliers are subject to continual review and periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with cGMP regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as to the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Furthermore, our manufacturing facilities must be approved by regulatory agencies before these facilities can be used to manufacture aNK platform products, and they will also be subject to additional regulatory inspections. Any material changes we may make to our manufacturing process or to the components used in our products may require additional prior approval by the FDA and state or foreign regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with FDA or other applicable regulatory requirements may result in criminal prosecution, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, partial or total suspension of production or withdrawal of a product from the market.. 72. We must also report adverse events that occur when our products are used. The discovery of previously unknown problems with aNK, haNK, taNK and t-haNK cells and therapies or our manufacturing facilities may result in restrictions or sanctions on our products or manufacturing facilities, including withdrawal of our products from the market or suspension of manufacturing. Regulatory agencies may also require us to reformulate our products, conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in the labeling of our product or obtain re-approvals. This may cause our reputation in the market place to suffer or subject us to lawsuits, including class action suits.. In addition, if we, our product candidates or the manufacturing facilities for our product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may:. •  issue warning letters that can produce adverse publicity;. •  impose civil or criminal penalties;. •  suspend regulatory approval;. •  suspend any ongoing clinical trials;. •  refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications filed by us;. •  impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements;. •  seize or detain products or request us to initiate a product recall; or. •  pursue and obtain an injunction.. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval of our product candidates in one jurisdiction does not mean that we will be successful in obtaining regulatory approval of our product candidates in other jurisdictions.. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval of our product candidates in one jurisdiction does not guarantee that we will be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approval in any other jurisdiction, while a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative effect on the regulatory approval process in others. For example, even if the FDA grants marketing approval of a product candidate, comparable regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions must also approve the product, manufacturing, and in many cases reimbursement of the product candidate in those countries. Approval procedures vary among jurisdictions and can involve requirements and administrative review periods different from, and greater than, those in the United States, including additional preclinical studies or clinical trials as clinical studies conducted in one jurisdiction may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. In some cases, the price that we intend to charge for our products is also subject to approval by regulatory authorities.. We may also submit marketing applications in other countries. Regulatory authorities in jurisdictions outside of the United States have requirements for approval of product candidates with which we must comply prior to marketing in those jurisdictions. Obtaining foreign regulatory approvals and compliance with foreign regulatory requirements could result in significant delays, difficulties and costs for us and could delay or prevent the introduction of our products in certain countries. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements in international markets and/or receive applicable marketing approvals, our target market will be reduced and our ability to realize the full market potential of our product candidates will be harmed.. We may seek orphan drug status or breakthrough therapy designation for one or more of our product candidates, but even if either is granted, we may be unable to maintain any benefits associated with breakthrough therapy designation or orphan drug status, including market exclusivity.. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan designation to a drug or biologic intended to treat a rare disease or condition or for which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making available in the United States a drug or biologic for a disease or condition will be recovered from sales in the United States for that drug or biologic. If a product that has orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan product exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications, including a full BLA to market the same drug or biologic for the same indication for seven years, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority to the product with orphan drug exclusivity. In 2012, the FDA established a Breakthrough Therapy Designation which is intended to expedite the development and review of products that treat serious or life-threatening conditions.. 73. We may seek orphan drug status for one or more of our products candidates, but exclusive marketing rights in the United States may be lost if we seek approval for an indication broader than the orphan designated indication and may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if we are unable to assure sufficient quantities of the product to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition. In addition, we may seek breakthrough therapy designation for one or more of our product candidates, but there can be no assurance that we will receive such designation.. We will need to obtain FDA approval of any proposed product brand names, and any failure or delay associated with such approval may adversely impact our business.. A biopharmaceutical product cannot be marketed in the United States or other countries until we have completed rigorous and extensive regulatory review processes, including review and approval of a brand name. Any brand names we intend to use for our product candidates will require approval from the FDA regardless of whether we have secured a formal trademark registration from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO. The FDA may object to a product brand name if they believe the name creates potential for confusion or inappropriately implies medical claims. If the FDA objects to any of our proposed product brand names, we may be required to adopt an alternative brand name for our product candidates. If we adopt an alternative brand name, we would lose the benefit of our existing trademark applications for such product candidate and may be required to expend significant additional resources in an effort to identify a suitable product brand name that would qualify under applicable trademark laws, not infringe the existing rights of third parties and be acceptable to the FDA. We may be unable to build a successful brand identity for a new trademark in a timely manner or at all, which would limit our ability to commercialize our product candidates.. Coverage and reimbursement decisions by third-party payors may have an adverse effect on pricing and market acceptance.. There is significant uncertainty related to the third-party coverage and reimbursement of newly approved drugs. Patients who are provided medical treatment for their conditions generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the costs associated with their treatment. Therefore, market acceptance and sales of our products, if approved, in both domestic and international markets will depend significantly on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party and/or government payors for any of our products and may be affected by existing and future healthcare reform measures. Government authorities and third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which drugs they will cover and establish approved lists, known as formularies, and establish payment levels for such drugs. Formularies may not include all FDA-approved drugs for a particular indication. Private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Any reduction in payment under Medicare Part D may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payors. We cannot be certain that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be available for any of our products, if approved, or that such coverage and reimbursement will be authorized in a timely fashion. Also, we cannot be certain that reimbursement policies will not reduce the demand for, or the price paid for, any of our products, if approved. If reimbursement is not available or is available on a limited basis for any of our products, if approved, we may not be able to successfully commercialize any such products.. Reimbursement by a third-party or government payor may depend upon a number of factors, including, without limitation, the third-party or government payor's determination that use of a product is:. •  a covered benefit under its health plan;. •  safe, effective and medically necessary;. •  appropriate for the specific patient;. •  cost-effective; and. •  neither experimental nor investigational.. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval for a product from a government or other third-party payor is a time consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products to the payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to coverage and reimbursement or to have pricing set at a satisfactory level. If reimbursement of our products, if any, is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels such as may result where alternative or generic treatments are available, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability.. Assuming we obtain coverage for a given product, the resulting reimbursement payment rates might not be adequate or may require co-payments that patients find unacceptably high. Patients are unlikely to use our products unless coverage is provided and reimbursement is adequate to cover a significant portion of the cost of our products.. 74. In the United States, third-party payors include federal and state healthcare programs, government authorities, private managed care providers, private health insurers, and other organizations. No uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for products exists among third-party payors, and third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price, examining the medical necessity, and reviewing the cost-effectiveness of medical drug products and medical services, in addition to questioning their safety and efficacy. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement for products can differ significantly from payor to payor. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that will require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our products to each payor separately, with no assurance that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be obtained. We or our collaborators may need to conduct expensive pharmaco-economic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of our products, in addition to the costs required to obtain the FDA approvals.. In some foreign countries, particularly in Europe, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials that compare the cost-effectiveness of our products to other available therapies. If reimbursement of any of our products, if approved, is unavailable or limited in scope or amount in a particular country, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability of our products in such country.. Recent legislative and regulatory activity may exert downward pressure on potential pricing and reimbursement for our products, if approved, that could materially affect the opportunity to commercialize.. The United States and several other jurisdictions are considering, or have already enacted, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell any of our products profitably, if approved. Among policy-makers and payors in the United States and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and/or expanding access to healthcare. In the United States, the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives. There have been, and likely will continue to be, legislative and regulatory proposals at the federal and state levels directed at broadening the availability of healthcare and containing or lowering the cost of healthcare. We cannot predict the initiatives that may be adopted in the future. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of healthcare may adversely affect:. •  the demand for any of our products, if approved;. •  our ability to set a price that we believe is fair for any of our products, if approved;. •  our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability;. •  the level of taxes that we are required to pay; and. •  the availability of capital.. In March 2010, ACA became law in the United States. The goal of ACA is to reduce the cost of healthcare, broaden access to health insurance, constrain healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add transparency requirements for the healthcare and health insurance industries, impose taxes and fees on the health industry, impose additional health policy reforms, and substantially change the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. While we cannot predict what impact on federal reimbursement policies this legislation will have in general or on our business specifically, ACA may result in downward pressure on pharmaceutical reimbursement, which could negatively affect market acceptance of any of our products, if they are approved. Provisions of ACA relevant to the pharmaceutical industry include the following:. •  an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs, not including orphan drug sales;. •  an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for most branded and generic drugs, respectively;. •  a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts on negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer's outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D;. •  extension of manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations;. 75. •  expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the Federal Poverty Level, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers' Medicaid rebate liability;. •  expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program;. •  new requirements for certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics, and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid, or the Children's Health Insurance Program, with specific exceptions to report annually certain financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals, as defined in ACA and its implementing regulations, including reporting any payment or \"transfer of value\" provided to physicians and teaching hospitals and any ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year;. •  expansion of healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the federal False Claims Act and the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers and enhanced penalties for noncompliance;. •  a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; and. •  a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted, or injected.. The ACA has been modified and amended recently, including the elimination of the individual mandate that individuals purchase healthcare insurance.  Furthermore, the current presidential administration and Congress are also expected to attempt more broad sweeping changes to the current health care laws.  We face uncertainties that might result from modification or repeal of any of the provisions of the ACA, including as a result of current and future executive orders and legislative actions.  The impact of those changes on us and potential effect on the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry as a whole is currently unknown.  But, any changes to the ACA are likely to have an impact on our results of operations, and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  We cannot predict what other healthcare programs and regulations will ultimately be implemented at the federal or state level or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the United States may have on our business.. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets due to licensing requirements and subject us to liability if we are not in compliance with applicable laws.. Our products and solutions are subject to export control and import laws and regulations, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, U.S. Customs regulations, and various economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Controls. Exports of our products and solutions outside of the United States must be made in compliance with these laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we and certain of our employees could be subject to substantial civil or criminal penalties, including the possible loss of export or import privileges; fines, which may be imposed on us and responsible employees or managers; and, in extreme cases, the incarceration of responsible employees or managers.. In addition, changes in our products or solutions or changes in applicable export or import laws and regulations may create delays in the introduction, provision, or sale of our products and solutions in international markets, prevent customers from using our products and solutions or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products and solutions to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. Any limitation on our ability to export, provide, or sell our products and solutions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws with respect to our operations and non-compliance with such laws can subject us to criminal and/or civil liability and harm our business.. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, or the FCPA, the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. § 201, the U.S. Travel Act, the USA PATRIOT Act, and possibly other state and national anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws in countries in which we conduct activities. Anti-corruption laws are interpreted broadly and prohibit companies and their employees, agents, third-party intermediaries, joint venture partners and collaborators from authorizing, promising, offering, or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to recipients in the public or private sector. We currently use contract research organizations abroad for clinical trials. In addition, we may engage third party intermediaries to sell our products and solutions abroad once we enter a commercialization phase for our product candidates and/or to obtain necessary permits, licenses, and other regulatory approvals. We or our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities. We can be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, partners, and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize or have actual knowledge of such activities.. 76. We adopted an anti-corruption policy in connection with the consummation of the IPO of our common stock in July 2015. The anti-corruption policy mandates compliance with the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws applicable to our business throughout the world. However, there can be no assurance that our employees and third party intermediaries will comply with this policy or such anti-corruption laws. Noncompliance with anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws could subject us to whistleblower complaints, investigations, sanctions, settlements, prosecution, other investigations, or other enforcement actions are launched, or governmental or other sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially harmed. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a materially significant diversion of management's attention and resources and significant defense and compliance costs and other professional fees. In certain cases, enforcement authorities may even cause us to appoint an independent compliance monitor which can result in added costs and administrative burdens.. Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property. If our efforts to protect the intellectual property related to our product candidates are not adequate, we may not be able to compete effectively in our market.. We rely upon a combination of patents, trade secret protection and contractual agreements, including confidentiality agreements to protect the intellectual property related to our product candidates and technology. Any disclosure to or misappropriation by third parties of our confidential proprietary information could enable competitors to quickly duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, eroding our competitive position in the market. We believe that we have worldwide commercial rights to the NK-92 cell line and we believe that we control commercial use of our haNK, taNK and t-haNK cells in key territories. We have developed and in-licensed numerous patents and patent applications and we possess substantial know-how and trade secrets relating to the development and commercialization of natural killer cell-based immunotherapy product candidates, including related manufacturing processes and technology. Our owned and licensed patent portfolio consists of patents and pending patent applications in the U.S. disclosing subject matter directed to certain of our proprietary technology, inventions, and improvements and our most advanced product candidates, as well as licensed and owned patents and pending applications in jurisdictions outside of the U.S., that, in many cases, are counterparts to the foregoing U.S. patents and patent applications. We believe we have intellectual property rights that are necessary to commercialize haNK, taNK and t-haNK cells. However, our patent applications may not result in issued patents, and, even if issued, the patents may be challenged and invalidated. Moreover, our patents and patent applications may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or developing competing products. We also face the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or may design around our proprietary property.. The patent application process, also known as patent prosecution, is expensive and time-consuming, and we and our current or future licensors and licensees may not be able to prepare, file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we or our current licensors, or any future licensors or licensees, will fail to identify patentable aspects of inventions made in the course of development and commercialization activities before it is too late to obtain patent protection on them. Therefore, these and any of our patents and applications may not be prosecuted and enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business. Defects of form in the preparation or filing of our patents or patent applications may exist, or may arise in the future, for example with respect to proper priority claims, inventorship, etc. If we or our current licensors, or any future licensors or licensees, fail to establish, maintain or protect such patents and other intellectual property rights, such rights may be reduced or eliminated. If our current licensors, or any future licensors or licensees, are not fully cooperative or disagree with us as to the prosecution, maintenance or enforcement of any patent rights, such patent rights could be compromised. If there are material defects in the form or preparation of our patents or patent applications, such patents or applications may be invalid and unenforceable. Any of these outcomes could impair our ability to prevent competition from third parties, which may have an adverse impact on our business.. The strength of patents in the biopharmaceutical field involves complex legal and scientific questions and can be uncertain. This uncertainty includes changes to the patent laws through either legislative action to change statutory patent law or court action that may reinterpret existing law or rules in ways affecting the scope or validity of issued patents. The patent applications that we own or in-license may fail to result in issued patents in the United States or foreign countries with claims that cover our product candidates. We are currently involved in a dispute with the US. Patent and Trademark Office over one of our patent applications, as described in Part I, Item 3 \"Legal Proceedings\" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Even if patents do successfully issue from the patent applications that we own or in-license, third parties may challenge the validity, enforceability or scope of such patents, which may result in such patents being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable.. 77. For example, patents granted by the European Patent Office, or EPO, may be challenged, also known as opposed, by any person within nine months from the publication of their grant. In this regard, we note that a third party filed an opposition in the EPO seeking revocation of one of our European patents relating to composition of matter  claims and method of use claims, and the EPO subsequently revoked that patent in April 2017. A third party also filed an opposition in the EPO seeking revocation of a related European patent with composition of matter claims and method of use claims in October 2015. Oral proceedings before the EPO Opposition Division for this patent are scheduled in March 2018.. Any successful challenge to our patents could deprive us of exclusive rights necessary for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. Furthermore, even if they are unchallenged, our patents may not adequately protect our product candidates, provide exclusivity for our product candidates, or prevent others from designing around our claims. If the breadth or strength of protection provided by the patents we hold or pursue with respect to our product candidates is challenged, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to develop, or threaten our ability to commercialize our product candidates.. Patents have a limited lifespan. In the United States, the natural expiration of a patent is generally 20 years after its earliest effective non-provisional filing date. Various extensions may be available; however the life of a patent, and the protection it affords, is limited. Without patent protection for our product candidates, we may be open to competition from generic versions of our product candidates. Further, if we encounter delays in our development efforts, including our clinical trials, the period of time during which we could market our product candidates under patent protection would be reduced.. In addition to the protection afforded by patents, we also rely on trade secret protection to protect proprietary know-how that may not be patentable or that we elect not to patent, processes for which patents may be difficult to obtain or enforce, and any other elements of our product candidates, and our product development processes (such as a manufacturing and formulation technologies) that involve proprietary know-how, information or technology that is not covered by patents. However, trade secrets can be difficult to protect. If the steps taken to maintain our trade secrets are deemed inadequate, we may have insufficient recourse against third parties for misappropriating any trade secrets. Misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of our trade secrets could significantly affect our competitive position and may have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, trade secret protection does not prevent competitors from independently developing substantially equivalent information and techniques and we cannot guarantee that our competitors will not independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. The FDA, as part of its Transparency Initiative, is currently considering whether to make additional information publicly available on a routine basis, including information that we may consider to be trade secrets or other proprietary information, and it is not clear at the present time how the FDA's disclosure policies may change in the future, if at all.. In an effort to protect our trade secrets and other confidential information, we require our employees, consultants, advisors, and any other third parties that have access to our proprietary know-how, information or technology, for example, third parties involved in the formulation and manufacture of our product candidates, and third parties involved in our clinical trials to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual's relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. However, we cannot be certain that our trade secrets and other confidential proprietary information will not be disclosed despite having such confidentiality agreements. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets. In addition, in some situations, these confidentiality agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants, or advisors have previous employment or consulting relationships. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use any intellectual property owned by third parties in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in any related or resulting know-how and inventions. If we are unable to prevent unauthorized material disclosure of our trade secrets to third parties, we may not be able to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in our market, which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.. Changes in U.S. patent law could diminish the value of patents in general, thereby impairing our ability to protect our products.. As is the case with other biopharmaceutical companies, our success is heavily dependent on intellectual property, particularly on obtaining and enforcing patents. Obtaining and enforcing patents in the pharmaceutical industry involves both technological and legal complexity, and therefore, is costly, time-consuming and inherently uncertain. In addition, the United States has recently enacted and is currently implementing wide-ranging patent reform legislation. Further, recent U.S. Supreme Court rulings have either narrowed the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakened the rights of patent owners in certain situations. In addition to increasing uncertainty with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future, this combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained.. 78. For our U.S. patent applications containing a claim not entitled to priority before March 16, 2013, there is a greater level of uncertainty in the patent law. In September 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the American Invents Act, or AIA, was signed into law. The AIA includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law, including provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The USPTO has developed regulations and procedures to govern administration of the AIA, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the AIA. It still remains unclear what other, if any, impact the AIA will have on the operation of our business. Moreover, the AIA and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.. An important change introduced by the AIA is that, as of March 16, 2013, the United States transitioned to a \"first-inventor-to-file\" system for deciding which party should be granted a patent when two or more patent applications are filed by different parties claiming the same invention. A third party that files a patent application in the USPTO after that date but before us could therefore be awarded a patent covering an invention of ours even if we had made the invention before it was made by the third party. This will require us to be cognizant going forward of the time from invention to filing of a patent application. Furthermore, our ability to obtain and maintain valid and enforceable patents depends on whether the differences between our technology and the prior art allow our technology to be patentable over the prior art. Since patent applications in the United States and most other countries are confidential for a period of time after filing, we cannot be certain that we were the first to either (1) file any patent application related to our product candidates or (2) invent any of the inventions claimed in our patents or patent applications.. Among some of the other changes introduced by the AIA are changes that limit where a patentee may file a patent infringement suit and providing opportunities for third parties to challenge any issued patent in the USPTO. This applies to all of our U.S. patents, even those issued before March 16, 2013. Because of a lower evidentiary standard in USPTO proceedings compared to the evidentiary standard in United States federal court necessary to invalidate a patent claim, a third party could potentially provide evidence in a USPTO proceeding sufficient for the USPTO to hold a claim invalid even though the same evidence would be insufficient to invalidate the claim if first presented in a district court action. Accordingly, a third party may attempt to use the USPTO procedures to invalidate our patent claims that would not have been invalidated if first challenged by the third party as a defendant in a district court action.. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, documentary, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements.. The USPTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent prosecution process. Periodic maintenance fees and various other governmental fees on any issued patent and/or pending patent applications are due to be paid to the USPTO and foreign patent agencies in several stages over the lifetime of a patent or patent application. We have systems in place to remind us to pay these fees, and we employ an outside firm and rely on our outside counsel to pay these fees. While an inadvertent lapse may sometimes be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are many situations in which noncompliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. If we fail to maintain the patents and patent applications directed to our product candidates, our competitors might be able to enter the market earlier than should otherwise have been the case, which would have a material adverse effect on our business.. Third-party claims alleging intellectual property infringement may adversely affect our business.. Our commercial success depends in part on our avoiding infringement of the patents and proprietary rights of third parties, for example, the intellectual property rights of competitors. Our research, development and commercialization activities may be subject to claims that we infringe or otherwise violate patents owned or controlled by third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we are developing our product candidates. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our activities related to our product candidates may give rise to claims of infringement of the patent rights of others. We cannot assure you that our product candidates will not infringe existing or future patents. We may not be aware of patents that have already issued that a third party, for example a competitor in our market, might assert are infringed by our product candidates. It is also possible that patents of which we are aware, but which we do not believe are relevant to our product candidates, could nevertheless be found to be infringed by our product candidates. Nevertheless, we are not aware of any issued patents that we believe would prevent us from marketing our product candidates, if approved. There may also be patent applications that have been filed but not published that, when issued as patents, could be asserted against us.. 79. Third parties making claims against us for infringement or misappropriation of their intellectual property rights may seek and obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize our product candidates. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us by a third party, we may have to (1) pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys' fees if we are found to have willfully infringed the third party's patents; (2) obtain one or more licenses from the third party; (3) pay royalties to the third party; and/or (4) redesign any infringing products. Redesigning any infringing products may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure. Further, we cannot predict whether any required license would be available at all or whether it would be available on commercially reasonable terms. In the event that we could not obtain a license, we may be unable to further develop and commercialize our product candidates, which could harm our business significantly. Even if we are able to obtain a license, the license would likely obligate us to pay license fees or royalties or both, and the rights granted to us might be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms.. Defending ourselves or our licensors in litigation is very expensive, particularly for a company of our size, and time-consuming. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of litigation or administrative proceedings more effectively than we can because of greater financial resources. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or other intellectual property or the patents of our licensors, which could be expensive and time consuming.. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property, including our existing patents, patents that may issue to us in the future, or the patents of our licensors to which we have a license. As a result, we may be required to file infringement claims to stop third-party infringement or unauthorized use. Further, we may not be able to prevent, alone or with our licensors, misappropriation of our intellectual property rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the United States.. Generic drug manufacturers may develop, seek approval for, and launch generic versions of our products. If we file an infringement action against such a generic drug manufacturer, that company may challenge the scope, validity or enforceability of our or our licensors' patents, requiring us and/or our licensors to engage in complex, lengthy and costly litigation or other proceedings.. For example, if we or one of our licensors initiated legal proceedings against a third party to enforce a patent covering our product candidates, the defendant could counterclaim that the patent covering our product candidates is invalid and/or unenforceable. In patent litigation in the United States, defendant counterclaims alleging invalidity and/or unenforceability are commonplace, and there are numerous grounds upon which a third party can assert invalidity or unenforceability of a patent.. In addition, within and outside of the United States, there has been a substantial amount of litigation and administrative proceedings, including interference and reexamination proceedings before the USPTO or oppositions and other comparable proceedings in various foreign jurisdictions, regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the biopharmaceutical industry. Recently, the AIA introduced new procedures including inter partes review and post grant review. The implementation of these procedures brings uncertainty to the possibility of challenges to our patents in the future, including those that patents perceived by our competitors as blocking entry into the market for their products, and the outcome of such challenges.. 80. In March 2009, we received a final rejection in one of our original patent applications pertaining to certain limited methods of use claims for NK-92 from the USPTO (but the USPTO allowed claims on all of the other proposed claims, including other methods of use). We filed a Notice of Appeal to the USPTO Board of Appeals and Interferences and a Decision on Appeal was rendered in the fall of 2013. That decision reversed the Examiner's rejection of the claim to certain limited methods of use with NK-92, but affirmed the Examiner's rejection of the remaining patent claims. In December 2013, we brought an action in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia to review the decision of the USPTO as we disagreed with the decision as to the certain limited non-allowed claims. On September 2, 2015, the U.S. District Court granted the USPTO's motion for summary judgment. On September 24, 2015, we filed a notice of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.  In September 2015, the USPTO filed a Motion for Expenses seeking $0.1 million for attorney's fees and the USPTO's expert witness fees.  In February 2016, the U.S. District Court denied the USPTO's Motion for Expenses for attorney's fees and granted Director's Motion for Expenses for the USPTO's expert witness fees.  The USPTO filed a notice of appeal on April 5, 2016.  In May 2017, the Federal Circuit affirmed the U.S. District Court's summary judgment ruling. The formal mandate was issued on June 26, 2017.  In June 2017, the Federal Circuit reversed the U.S. District Court and remanded the case for the U.S. District Court to enter an award of $0.1 million in favor of the USPTO.  On August 31, 2017, a majority of active Federal Circuit judges voted to vacate the June 2017 decision and hear the case en banc sua sponte. The USPTO filed its opening brief on November 15, 2017.  We filed our opening brief on January 16, 2018. The USPTO filed its reply brief on January 31, 2018. Oral argument was heard on March 8, 2018.. Such litigation and administrative proceedings could result in revocation of our patents or amendment of our patents such that they do not cover our product candidates. They may also put our pending patent applications at risk of not issuing, or issuing with limited and potentially inadequate scope to cover our product candidates. The outcome following legal assertions of invalidity and unenforceability is unpredictable. With respect to the validity question, for example, we cannot be certain that there is no invalidating prior art, of which we and the patent examiner were unaware during prosecution. Additionally, it is also possible that prior art of which we are aware, but which we do not believe affects the validity or enforceability of a claim, may, nonetheless, ultimately be found by a court of law or an administrative panel to affect the validity or enforceability of a claim, for example if a priority claim is found to be improper. If a defendant were to prevail on a legal assertion of invalidity and/or unenforceability, we would lose at least part, and perhaps all, of the patent protection on our product candidates. Such a loss of patent protection could have a material adverse impact on our business.. Enforcing our or our licensor's intellectual property rights through litigation is very expensive, particularly for a company of our size, and time-consuming. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of litigation more effectively than we can because of greater financial resources. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation or administrative proceedings, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure. In addition, during the course of litigation or administrative proceedings, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments or public access to related documents. If investors perceive these results to be negative, the market price for our common stock could be significantly harmed.. If we fail to comply with our obligation in any of the agreements under which we license intellectual property rights from third parties or otherwise experience disruptions to our business relationships with our licensors, we could lose license rights that are important to our business.. Licensing of intellectual property rights is of critical importance to our business and involves complex legal, business and scientific issues. We rely on our exclusive license from Hans Klingemann, M.D., Ph.D., one of our founders and the inventor of our aNK and related platform product cell therapies, and may rely on our exclusive licenses from Rush University Medical Center and other licensors such as Fox Chase Cancer Research Center and the University Health Network. If we fail to comply with the diligence obligations or otherwise materially breach our license agreement, and fail to remedy such failure or cure such breach, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license.. Our obligation to pay royalties to Dr. Klingemann under the license agreement, as amended, runs until the expiration of the underlying patents and the license agreement may be terminated earlier by either party for material breach. Under the license agreement, we have the right to enforce the licensed patents. Our license agreement with Rush University Medical Center terminates on the 12th anniversary of our first payment of royalties, at which point the license is deemed perpetual, irrevocable, fully-paid royalty-free, exclusive license, and may be terminated earlier by either party for material breach.. 81. Disputes may arise between us and our licensors regarding intellectual property rights subject to a license agreement, including:. •  the scope of rights granted under the license agreement and other interpretation-related issues;. •  our right to sublicense intellectual property rights to third parties under collaborative development relationships; and. •  our diligence obligations with respect to the use of the licensed technology in relation to our development and commercialization of our product candidates, and what activities satisfy those diligence obligations.. While we would expect to exercise all rights and remedies available to us, including seeking to cure any breach by us, and otherwise seek to preserve our rights under the patents licensed to us, we may not be able to do so in a timely manner, at an acceptable cost or at all. Generally, the loss of any one of our current licenses, or any other license we may acquire in the future, could materially harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property, which could limit our ability to compete.. Because we operate in the highly technical field of research and development, we rely in part on trade secret protection in order to protect our proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect, and we cannot be certain that others will not develop the same or similar technologies on their own. We have taken steps, including entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors, to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how. These agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties all confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party's relationship with us. We also typically obtain agreements from these parties which provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. However, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets or know-how is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets or know-how. The failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position.. We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information of third parties.. We have received confidential and proprietary information from third parties. In addition, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees, consultants or independent contractors have inadvertently or otherwise improperly used or disclosed confidential information of these third parties or our employees' former employers. Further, we may be subject to ownership disputes in the future arising, for example, from conflicting obligations of consultants or others who are involved in developing our product candidates. We may also be subject to claims that former employees, consultants, independent contractors, collaborators or other third parties have an ownership interest in our patents or other intellectual property. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these and other claims challenging our right to and use of confidential and proprietary information. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose our rights therein. Such an outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial cost and be a distraction to our management and employees.. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world.. We strive to control cell line distribution as well as limit commercial use through licenses and material transfer agreements with third parties in addition to its patents and patent applications. However, a company may illicitly obtain our cells or create their own modified variants and attempt to commercialize them in foreign countries where we do not have any patents or patent applications where legal recourse may be limited.  For example, we believe that a company in China may be using our NK-92 cell line without our permission.  This may have a significant commercial impact on our foreign business operations.. 82. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on our product candidates in all countries throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. The requirements for patentability may differ in certain countries, particularly developing countries. For example, China has a heightened requirement for patentability, and specifically requires a detailed description of medical uses of a claimed drug. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. Consequently, we may not be able to prevent third parties from practicing our inventions in all countries outside the United States. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection to develop their own products and further, may export otherwise infringing products to territories where we have patent protection, but enforcement on infringing activities is inadequate. These products may compete with our products, and our patents or other intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent them from competing.. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to pharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business, could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing, and could provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially meaningful. In addition, certain countries in Europe and certain developing countries, including India and China, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In those countries, we may have limited remedies if our patents are infringed or if we are compelled to grant a license to our patents to a third party, which could materially diminish the value of those patents. This could limit our potential revenue opportunities. Accordingly, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights around the world may be inadequate to obtain a significant commercial advantage from the intellectual property that we own or license. Finally, our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights may be adversely affected by unforeseen changes in foreign intellectual property laws.. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock. Our Chairman and CEO and entities affiliated with him collectively own a significant majority of our common stock and will exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, regardless of the wishes of other stockholders.. As of December 31, 2017, our Chairman and CEO, Patrick Soon-Shiong, M.D., and entities affiliated with him, collectively own approximately 59.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Additionally, Dr. Soon-Shiong is the owner of options, a warrant and restricted stock units to purchase an aggregate of 20.3 million shares of our common stock which would give him and his affiliates ownership of approximately 67.6% of our outstanding shares of common stock if they were fully vested and exercised in full. In addition, pursuant to the Nominating Agreement between us and Cambridge Equities, LP, or Cambridge, an entity that Dr. Soon-Shiong controls, Cambridge has the ability to designate one director to be nominated for election to our board of directors for as long as Cambridge continues to hold at least 20% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. Dr. Soon-Shiong was selected by Cambridge to hold this board seat. Dr. Soon-Shiong and his affiliates will therefore have significant influence over management and significant control over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the annual election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets, for the foreseeable future. This concentrated control will limit stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our stockholders do not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected.. The market price of our stock may fluctuate significantly, and investors may have difficulty selling their shares.. Prior to our IPO in July 2015, there was no public market for our common stock. Although our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, the market for our shares has demonstrated varying levels of trading activity.  You may not be able to sell your shares quickly or at the market price if trading in shares of our common stock is not active. Further, an inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares of our common stock and may impair our ability to enter into strategic partnerships or acquire companies or products by using our shares of common stock as consideration.. 83. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile.. The stock market in general and the market for biopharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:. •  the commencement, enrollment or results of the planned clinical trials of our product candidates or any future clinical trials we may conduct, or changes in the development status of our product candidates;. •  any delay in our regulatory filings for our product candidates and any adverse development or perceived adverse development with respect to the applicable regulatory authority's review of such filings, including without limitation the FDA's issuance of a \"refusal to file\" letter or a request for additional information;. •  adverse results or delays in clinical trials;. •  our decision to initiate a clinical trial, not to initiate a clinical trial or to terminate an existing clinical trial;. •  adverse regulatory decisions, including failure to receive regulatory approval of our product candidates. •  changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products, including but not limited to clinical trial requirements for approvals;. •  our failure to commercialize our product candidates;. •  additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel;. •  unanticipated serious safety concerns related to the use of our product candidates;. •  announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;. •  our ability to effectively manage our growth;. •  variations in our quarterly operating results;. •  our cash position;. •  announcements that our revenue or income are below or that costs or losses are greater than analysts' expectations;. •  publication of research reports about us or our industry, or immunotherapy in particular, or positive or negative recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts;. •  changes in the market valuations of similar companies;. •  general economic slowdowns;. •  sales of large blocks of our common stock;. •  fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes;. •  disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies;. •  significant lawsuits, including patent or stockholder litigation; and. •  the other factors described in this \"Risk Factors\" section.. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities. This type of litigation, such as the securities litigation described in Note 8  -  Commitments and Contingencies  -  Securities Litigation to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which would harm our business, operating results or financial condition.. 84. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including pursuant to our equity incentive plan and the warrant held by our Chairman and CEO, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall.. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. If our stockholders sell, or the market perceives that our stockholders intend to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. In particular, the options, warrant, and restricted stock units to purchase or receive common stock held by our Chairman and CEO at December 31, 2017, may entitle him to acquire up to an aggregate of 20.3 million shares of our common stock, or approximately 25.8% of our outstanding common stock. Sales of stock by these stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock.. Certain holders of approximately 52.7 million shares of our common stock, including shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants, are entitled to certain rights with respect to the registration of their shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in the shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, except for shares held by our affiliates as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Any sales of securities by these stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.. In addition, we expect that additional capital may be needed in the future to continue our planned operations, including conducting clinical trials, commercialization efforts, expanded research and development activities and costs associated with operating a public company. To raise capital, we may sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities, investors may be materially diluted by subsequent sales. Such sales may also result in material dilution to our existing stockholders, and new investors could gain rights, preferences and privileges senior to the holders of our common stock.. We have incurred and will continue to incur costs as a result of operating as a public company and our management has been and will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives and corporate governance practices, including maintaining an effective system of internal control over financial reporting.. As a public company listed in the United States, and increasingly after we are no longer an \"emerging growth company,\" we have incurred and will continue to incur significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including Sarbanes-Oxley and regulations implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission or SEC, and The NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, may increase legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. We intend to invest resources to create a larger finance function with additional personnel to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If notwithstanding our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards, we fail to comply, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed.. As a public company in the United States, we are required, pursuant to Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, or Section 404, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We must disclose any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting, and, when we are no longer an \"emerging growth company,\" we will need to provide a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our internal control over financial reporting.. The controls and other procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file with the SEC is disclosed accurately and is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms. Our independent registered public accounting firm was not engaged to perform an audit of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2017 or for any other period. Accordingly, no such opinion was expressed.. Even after we develop these new procedures, these new controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with these policies or procedures may deteriorate and material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may be discovered. We may err in the design or operation of our controls, and all internal control systems, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because there are inherent limitations in all control systems, there can be no absolute assurance that all control issues have been or will be detected. If we are unable, or are perceived as unable, to produce reliable financial reports due to internal control deficiencies, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and operating results, which could result in a negative market reaction.. 85. To fully comply with Section 404, we will need to retain additional employees to supplement our current finance staff, and we may not be able to do so in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, in the process of evaluating our internal control over financial reporting, we expect that certain of our internal control practices will need to be updated to comply with the requirements of Section 404 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and we may not be able to do so on a timely basis, or at all. In the event that we are not able to demonstrate compliance with Section 404 in a timely manner, or are unable to produce timely or accurate financial statements, we may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or NASDAQ, and investors may lose confidence in our operating results and the price of our common stock could decline. Furthermore, if we are unable to certify that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and in compliance with Section 404, we may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or stock exchanges, and we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could hurt our business, the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets.. We also expect that being a public company will make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on committees of our board of directors or as members of senior management.. The restatement of our interim financial statements for the quarters ended June 30, 2015 and September 30, 2015 may affect shareholder confidence, may consume a significant amount of our time and resources, and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price.. As disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 10, 2016, we have restated our interim financial statements for the quarters ended June 30, 2015 and September 30, 2015. The restatements, which are included in our 2015 Annual Report, are attributable to certain stock-based awards to the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and build-to-suit lease accounting related to one of its research and development and cGMP facilities.  Specifically, errors resulted from the modification of the performance-based vesting criteria to a combination of performance-based and services-based vesting criteria of a warrant subsequent to the grant date and the value of non-cash, stock-based compensation expense recorded by the Company for the quarters ended June 30, 2015 and September 30, 2015.  The error related to the use of build-to-suit lease accounting, which resulted from the Company's involvement in the construction of structural improvements to the leased facility space and, therefore, was deemed the owner, for accounting purposes, of the construction project having a non-cash impact for the quarters ending June 30, 2015 and September 30, 2015.. Although we have remediated the material weakness associated with the restatements described above, if any additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to further restate our financial results. In addition, if we are unable to successfully remediate any future material weaknesses in our internal controls or if we are unable to produce accurate and timely financial statements, our stock price may be adversely affected and we may be unable to maintain compliance with applicable stock exchange listing requirements.. We have not paid cash dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock.. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at such time as the board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates.. Because we are relying on the exemptions from corporate governance requirements as a result of being a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NASDAQ listing standards, you do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements.. Our Chairman and CEO, Dr. Patrick Soon-Shiong, and entities affiliated with him, control a majority of our common stock. As a result, we are a \"controlled company\" within the meaning of the NASDAQ listing standards. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company is a \"controlled company\" and may elect not to comply with certain NASDAQ corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors and (2) the requirement that we have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities. We have elected not to have a nominating and corporate governance committee in reliance on the \"controlled company\" exemptions. Accordingly, you do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements.. 86. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an \"emerging growth company,\" as defined in the JOBS Act enacted in April 2012, or the JOBS Act, and may remain an \"emerging growth company\" for up to five years following the completion of our IPO, or December 31, 2020, although, if we have more than $1.0 billion in annual revenue, the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700.0 million as of June 30 of any year, or we issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period before the end of that five-year period, we would cease to be an \"emerging growth company\" as of the following December 31. For as long as we remain an \"emerging growth company,\" we are permitted and intend to continue to rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not \"emerging growth companies.\" These exemptions include:. •  being permitted to provide only two years of audited financial statements, in addition to any required unaudited interim financial statements, with correspondingly reduced \"Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations\" disclosure;. •  not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements in the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting;. •  not being required to comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor's report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements;. •  reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation; and. •  exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved.. We have taken advantage of reduced reporting requirements in our public filings. In particular, we have not included all of the executive compensation related information that would be required if we were not an emerging growth company. In addition, the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards, delaying the adoption of these accounting standards until they would apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption and, as a result, we will adopt new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for other public companies. Investors may find our common stock less attractive as a result of our reliance on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and the market price of our common stock may be reduced or more volatile.. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, and certain other tax attributes to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations.. As of December 31, 2017 we had U.S. federal, state and foreign NOLs of approximately $165.9 million, $136.2 million and $0.2 million, respectively, which begin to expire in various years starting with 2022, if not utilized. As of December 31, 2017, we also had federal and state research and development tax credit carryforwards of approximately $3.2 million and $1.9 million, respectively. Under Sections 382 and 383 of Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, if a corporation undergoes an \"ownership change,\" the corporation's ability to use its pre-change NOLs and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its future post-change income and taxes may be limited. In general, an \"ownership change\" occurs if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by \"5% shareholders\" that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. We completed an IRC Section 382/383 analysis in 2016 regarding the limitation of net operating loss and research and development credit carryforwards.  As a result of the analysis, we have derecognized deferred tax assets for net operating losses and federal and state research and development credits of $0.8 million and $1.2 million from our deferred tax asset schedule as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.. We are a U.S.-based company subject to tax in the U.S. and in Korea.  Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities, and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. While we believe our tax positions are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, it is possible that these positions may be overturned by jurisdictional tax authorities, which may have a significant impact on our global provision for income taxes.. Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. The U.S. recently enacted significant tax reform, and certain provisions of the new law may adversely affect us. In addition, governmental tax authorities are increasingly scrutinizing the tax positions of companies. U.S. or other foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted.. 87. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline.. The trading market for our common stock will depend on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. There can be no assurance that analysts will cover us or provide favorable coverage. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or change their opinion of our stock, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline.. We are not subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could negatively affect your investment.. We elected in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to not be subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a \"business combination\" with an \"interested stockholder\" for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. A \"business combination\" includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. An \"interested stockholder\" is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns (or, in certain cases, within three years prior, did own) 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock. Our decision not to be subject to Section 203 will allow, for example, our Chairman and CEO (who with members of his immediate family and entities affiliated with him owned approximately 59.2% of our common stock as of December 31, 2017) to transfer shares in excess of 15% of our voting stock to a third-party free of the restrictions imposed by Section 203. This may make us more vulnerable to takeovers that are completed without the approval of our board of directors and/or without giving us the ability to prohibit or delay such takeovers as effectively.. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or increase the cost of acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions include:. •  a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the board of directors, the president or the chief executive officer;. •  advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to our board of directors; and. •  the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock on terms determined by the board of directors without stockholder approval and which preferred stock may include rights superior to the rights of the holders of common stock.. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirors to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors and could also delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing or cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.. 88. Claims for indemnification by our directors and officers may reduce our available funds to satisfy successful third-party claims against us and may reduce the amount of money available to us.. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws provide that we will indemnify our directors and officers, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law. In addition, as permitted by Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated bylaws and our indemnification agreements that we have entered into with our directors and officers provide that:. •  We will indemnify our directors and officers for serving us in those capacities or for serving other business enterprises at our request, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law. Delaware law provides that a corporation may indemnify such person if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the registrant and, with respect to any criminal proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful.. •  We may, in our discretion, indemnify employees and agents in those circumstances where indemnification is permitted by applicable law.. •  We are required to advance expenses, as incurred, to our directors and officers in connection with defending a proceeding, except that such directors or officers shall undertake to repay such advances if it is ultimately determined that such person is not entitled to indemnification.. •  We are not be obligated pursuant to our amended and restated bylaws to indemnify a person with respect to proceedings initiated by that person against us or our other indemnitees except with respect to proceedings authorized by our board of directors or brought to enforce a right to indemnification.. •  The rights conferred in our amended and restated bylaws are not exclusive, and we are authorized to enter into indemnification agreements with our directors, officers, employees and agents and to obtain insurance to indemnify such persons.. •  We may not retroactively amend our bylaw provisions to reduce our indemnification obligations to directors, officers, employees and agents.. To the extent that a claim for indemnification is brought by any of our directors or officers, it would reduce the amount of funds available for use in our business."
