[1] "ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS. The risks described below are among those that could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. These risks could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results and from any results predicted by any forward-looking statements related to conditions or events that may occur in the future.. Our Business Could Be Materially Adversely Affected as a Result of General Economic and Market Conditions. We are subject to the effects of general economic and market conditions. In the event that the U.S. or international economic conditions deteriorate, our revenue, profit and cash-flow levels could be materially adversely affected in future periods. In the event of such deterioration, many of our current or potential future customers may experience serious cash flow problems and as a result may, modify, delay or cancel purchases of our products. Additionally, customers may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. If such events do occur, they may result in our expenses being too high in relation to our revenues and cash flows.. We Are Dependent Upon the Efforts of Richard L. Soloway, Our Chief Executive Officer and There is No Succession Plan in Place. The success of the Company is largely dependent on the efforts of Richard L. Soloway, Chief Executive Officer. The loss of his services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and prospects. There is currently no succession plan to address the loss of Mr. Soloway’s services.. Competitors May Develop New Technologies or Products in Advance of Us. Our business may be materially adversely affected by the announcement or introduction of new products and services by our competitors, and the implementation of effective marketing or sales strategies by our competitors. The industry in which the Company operates is characterized by constantly improved products. There can be no assurance that competitors will not develop products that are superior to the Company's products. The Company has historically invested approximately 6% to 8% of annual revenues on Research and Development to mitigate this risk. Future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to develop and market products and product enhancements cost-effectively. The Company's research and development expenditures are principally targeted at enhancing existing products, and to a lesser extent at developing new ones. Further, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience additional price competition, and that such competition may not adversely affect the Company's revenues and results of operations.. Our Business Could Be Materially Adversely Affected by the Inability to Maintain Expense Levels Proportionate to Sales Volume. While expense levels relative to current sales levels result in positive net income and cash flows, if sales levels decrease significantly and we are unable to decrease expenses proportionately, our business may be adversely affected.. Our Business Could Be Materially Adversely Affected as a Result of Housing and Commercial Building Market Conditions. We are subject to the effects of housing and commercial building market conditions. If these conditions deteriorate, resulting in declines in new housing or commercial building starts, existing home or commercial building sales or renovations, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected, particularly in our intrusion and door locking product lines.. Our Business Could Be Materially Adversely Affected as a Result of Lessening Demand in the Security Market. Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for our products. Delays or reductions in spending, domestically or internationally, for electronic security systems could materially adversely affect demand for our products, which could result in decreased revenues or earnings.. The Markets We Serve Are Highly Competitive and We May Be Unable to Compete Effectively. We compete with approximately 20 other companies that manufacture and market security equipment to distributors, dealers, control stations and original equipment manufacturers. Most of these companies may have substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company. The Company competes primarily on the basis of the features, quality, reliability and pricing of, and the incorporation of the latest innovative and technological advances into, its products. The Company also competes by offering technical support services to its customers. In addition, the Company competes on the basis of its expertise, its proven products, its reputation and its ability to provide products to customers on a timely basis. The inability of the Company to compete with respect to any one or more of the aforementioned factors could have an adverse impact on the Company's business.. Our Business Could be Materially Adversely Affected as a Result of Offering Extended Payment Terms to Customers. We regularly grant credit terms beyond 30 days to certain customers. These terms are offered in an effort to keep a full line of our products in-stock at our customers’ locations. The longer the terms that are granted, the more risk is inherent in collection of those receivables. We believe that our Bad Debt reserves are adequate to account for this inherent risk.. We Rely On Distributors To Sell Our Products And Any Adverse Change In Our Relationship With Our Distributors Could Result In A Loss Of Revenue And Harm Our Business.. We distribute our products primarily through independent distributors and wholesalers of security alarm and security hardware equipment. Our distributors and wholesalers also sell our competitors' products, and if they favor our competitors' products for any reason, they may fail to market our products as effectively or to devote resources necessary to provide effective sales, which would cause our results to suffer. In addition, the financial health of these distributors and wholesalers and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. Some of these distributors and wholesalers may be unable to withstand adverse changes in business conditions. Our business could be seriously harmed if the financial condition of some of these distributors and wholesalers substantially weakens.. Members of Management and Certain Directors Beneficially Own a Substantial Portion of the Company’s Common Stock and May Be in a Position to Determine the Outcome of Corporate Elections. Richard L. Soloway, our Chief Executive Officer, members of management and the Board of Directors beneficially own approximately 33% of the currently outstanding shares of Common Stock. By virtue of such ownership and their positions with Napco, they may have the practical ability to determine the election of all directors and control the outcome of substantially all matters submitted to Napco’s stockholders.. In addition, Napco has a staggered Board of Directors. Such concentration of ownership and the staggered Board could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discourage a third party from seeking to acquire, control of Napco.. Our Business Could be Materially Adversely Affected by Adverse Tax Consequences of Offshore Operations. We operate on a global basis, with a portion of our operating income generated outside the United States.. We intend to reinvest these earnings in our foreign operations indefinitely, except where we are able to repatriate these earnings to the United States without material incremental tax expense.  A significant portion of our assets that result from these earnings remain outside the United States.  If these indefinitely reinvested earnings were repatriated into the United States as dividends, we would be subject to additional withholding taxes.. Our Business Could Be Materially Adversely Affected as a Result of the Inability to Maintain Adequate Financing. Our business is dependent on maintaining adequate levels of financing used to fund operations and capital expenditures. The current debt facilities provide for certain financial covenants relating to ratios affected by profit, asset and debt levels. If the Company’s profits, asset or cash-flow levels decline below the minimums required to meet these covenants, the Company may be materially adversely affected. Effects on the Company could include higher interest costs, reduction in borrowing availability or revocation of these credit facilities.. If We are Unable to Successfully Remediate any Material Weakness in our Internal Control over Financial Reporting, or Identify any Additional Material Weaknesses, the Accuracy and Timing of our Financial Reporting may be Adversely Affected, We May be Unable to Maintain Compliance with Securities Law Requirements Regarding Timely Filing of Periodic Reports in Addition to Applicable Stock Exchange Listing Requirements, and our Stock Price May Decline Materially as a Result.. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2018, our management and independent registered public accounting firm concluded that there was a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or a combination of significant deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that it is reasonably possible that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The one material weakness identified related to controls over financial reporting regarding controls related to a lack of supervision and review to ensure proper internal control over financial reporting.. While we expect to take the measures necessary to address the underlying causes of this material weakness, we cannot at this time estimate how long it will take and our efforts may not prove to be successful in remediating this material weakness. While we have not incurred and do not expect to incur material expenses specifically related to the remediation of this material weakness, actual expenses may exceed our current estimates and overall costs of compiling the system and processing documentation necessary to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting may be material.. We cannot assure you that we have identified all, or that we will not in the future have additional, material weaknesses. If we are unable to successfully remediate any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or identify any additional material weaknesses that may exist, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected, we may be unable to maintain compliance with securities law requirements regarding timely filing of periodic reports in addition to applicable stock exchange listing requirements, and our stock price may decline materially as a result.. Our Business Could Be Materially Adversely Affected by a weakening of the US Dollar against the Dominican Peso. We are exposed to foreign currency risks due to our operations in the Dominican Republic. We have significant operations in the Dominican Republic, which conducts certain transactions in Dominican pesos. We are subject to the risk that currency exchange rates between the United States and the Dominican Republic will fluctuate significantly, potentially resulting in an increase in some of our expenses when US dollars are transferred to Dominican pesos to pay these expenses."
