[1] "Item 1A.     Risk Factors.. Making or continuing an investment in our common stock involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price of your common stock could decline and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes a forward-looking statement, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of the Company.. Risks Relating to Our Business. Our business is concentrated in, and largely dependent on, the continued growth and welfare of the general geographic markets in which we operate.. Our commercial banking operations are concentrated in the southeastern United States, particularly in Alabama, in central and northeast Florida, and in the Atlanta, Georgia metro area. As of December 31, 2017, approximately 91.5% of our total loans were to borrowers located in Alabama, Florida and Georgia. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations and cash flows are affected by changes in the economic conditions of those states or the regions of which they are a part. Our success depends to a significant extent on the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in these markets. Although our customers’ business and financial interests may extend well beyond these market areas, adverse conditions that affect these market areas could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans, affect the value of collateral underlying loans, impact our ability to attract deposits and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Because of our geographic concentration, we may be less able than other regional or national financial institutions to diversify our credit risks across multiple markets.. A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of nonperforming loans and/or reduced demand for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.. Economic recession or other economic problems, including those affecting our markets and regions, but also those affecting the United States or world economies, could have a material adverse impact on the demand for banking products and services. Since the conclusion of the last recession, economic growth has been uneven. If economic conditions deteriorate, or if there are negative developments affecting the domestic and international credit markets, the value of our loans and investments may be harmed, which in turn would have an adverse effect on our financial performance and condition, as it would for other banks. In addition, although deteriorating market conditions could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, there can be no assurance that we would benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions, either in our primary market areas or nationally, even if they do occur.. Our small to medium-sized business and entrepreneurial customers may have fewer financial resources than larger entities to weather a downturn in the economy, which may impair their ability to repay their loans, and such impairment could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. We focus our business development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses and entrepreneurs. These small to medium-sized businesses and entrepreneurs may have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If economic conditions negatively impact our primary market areas in Alabama, central and northeast Florida, and the Atlanta, Georgia metro area generally, and small to medium-sized businesses are adversely affected, then our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected.. 12. Table of Contents. Our financial performance will be negatively impacted if we are unable to execute our growth strategy.. Our current growth strategy is to grow organically and to supplement that growth with select acquisitions. Our ability to grow organically depends primarily on our ability to generate loans and deposits of acceptable risk and expense, and we may not be successful in continuing this organic growth. Our ability to identify appropriate markets for expansion, recruit and retain qualified personnel and fund growth at a reasonable cost depends on prevailing economic conditions, maintenance of sufficient capital, competitive factors and changes in banking laws, among other factors. Conversely, if we grow too quickly and are unable to control costs and maintain asset quality, such growth, whether organic or through select acquisitions, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. External economic factors, such as changes in monetary policy and inflation and deflation, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our financial condition and results of operations are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. Actions by monetary and fiscal authorities, including the Federal Reserve, could lead to inflation, deflation or other economic phenomena that could adversely affect our financial performance. The primary impact of inflation on our operations most likely will be reflected in increased operating costs. Conversely, deflation generally will tend to erode collateral values and diminish loan quality. Virtually all of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates have a significant impact on our performance. Interest rates do not necessarily move in the same direction or by the same magnitude as the prices of goods and services.. Our profitability is vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations.. Our profitability depends substantially on our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest earned on assets (such as loans and securities held in our investment portfolio) and the interest paid for liabilities (such as interest paid on savings and money market accounts and time deposits).. Income associated with interest-earning assets and costs associated with interest-bearing liabilities may not be affected uniformly by fluctuations in interest rates. The magnitude and duration of changes in interest rates are events over which we have no control, and such changes may have an adverse effect on our net interest income. Prepayment and early withdrawal levels, which are also impacted by changes in interest rates, can significantly affect our assets and liabilities. For example, an increase in interest rates could, among other things, reduce the demand for loans and decrease loan repayment rates. Such an increase could also adversely affect the ability of our floating-rate borrowers to meet their higher payment obligations, which could in turn lead to an increase in non-performing assets and net charge-offs. Conversely, a decrease in the general level of interest rates could affect us by, among other things, leading to greater competition for deposits and incentivizing borrowers to prepay or refinance their loans more quickly or frequently than they otherwise would. The primary tool that management uses to measure interest rate risk is a simulation model that evaluates the impact of varying levels of prevailing interest rates on net interest income and the economic value of equity. As of December 31, 2017, this simulation analysis indicated that, if prevailing interest rates immediately decreased by 300 basis points, we would expect net interest income to decrease by approximately $20.6 million, or 18.0%, over the next 12 months, and a decline in the economic value of equity of $77.8 million, or 14.8%. We believe that this is unlikely based on current interest rate levels. Conversely, if prevailing interest rates immediately increased by 300 basis points, we would expect net interest income to increase by approximately $15.0 million, or 13.2%, over the next 12 months, and the economic value of equity to increase by $28.0 million, or 5.3%. However, fluctuations in interest rates affect different classes of income-earning assets differently, and there can be no assurance as to the actual effect on our results of operations should such an increase or decrease occur.. Generally, the interest rates on our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities do not change at the same rate, to the same extent or on the same basis. Even assets and liabilities with similar maturities or re-pricing periods may react in different degrees to changes in market interest rates. Interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate in advance of changes in general market interest rates, while interest rates on other types of assets and liabilities may lag behind changes in general market rates. Certain assets, such as fixed and adjustable rate mortgage loans, have features that limit changes in interest rates on a short-term basis and over the life of the asset. Changes in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. 13. Table of Contents. Market interest rates for loans, investments and deposits are highly sensitive to many factors beyond our control.. Generally, interest rate spreads (the difference between interest rates earned on assets and interest rates paid on liabilities) have narrowed in recent years as a result of changing market conditions, policies of various government and regulatory authorities and competitive pricing pressures, and we cannot predict whether these rate spreads will narrow even further. This narrowing of interest rate spreads could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot predict whether interest rates will continue to remain at present levels. Changes in interest rates may cause significant changes, up or down, in our net interest income.. We attempt to minimize the adverse effects of changes in interest rates by structuring our asset-liability composition in order to obtain the maximum spread between interest income and interest expense. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in minimizing the adverse effects of changes in interest rates. Depending on our portfolio of loans and investments, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates.. We could suffer losses from a decline in the credit quality of the assets that we hold.. We could sustain losses if borrowers, guarantors and related parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and policies that we believe are appropriate to minimize this risk, including the establishment and review of the allowance for credit losses, periodic assessment of the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, we face credit quality risks presented by past, current, and potential economic and real estate market conditions.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could negatively impact our business.. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by either residential or commercial real estate. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $508.9 million in residential real estate loans and $888.3 million in commercial real estate loans outstanding, representing approximately 23.8% and 41.5%, respectively, of our total loans outstanding on that date.. There are significant risks associated with real estate-based lending. Real estate collateral may deteriorate in value during the time that credit is extended, in which case we might not be able to sell such collateral for an amount necessary to satisfy a defaulting borrower’s obligation to us. In such an event, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, commercial real estate loans are subject to unique risks. These types of loans are often viewed as having more risks than residential real estate or other consumer loans, primarily because relatively large amounts are loaned to a relatively small number of borrowers. Thus, the deterioration of even a small number of these loans could cause a significant increase in our loan loss allowance or loan charge-offs, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, commercial real estate loans depend on cash flows from the property securing the debt. Cash flows may be affected significantly by general economic conditions, and a downturn in a local economy in one of our markets or in occupancy rates where a property is located could increase the likelihood of default.. The foregoing risks are enhanced as a result of the limited geographic scope of our principal markets. Most of the real estate securing our loans is located in Alabama, in central and northeast Florida, and in the Atlanta, Georgia metro area. Because the value of this collateral depends on local real estate market conditions and is affected by, among other things, neighborhood characteristics, real estate tax rates, the cost of operating the properties and local governmental regulation, adverse changes in any of these factors in Alabama, central and northeast Florida or the Atlanta, Georgia metro area could cause a decline in the value of the collateral securing a significant portion of our loan portfolio. Further, the concentration of real estate collateral in these markets limits our ability to diversify the risk of such occurrences.. 14. Table of Contents. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, which may require us to take a charge to earnings and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. We maintain an allowance for estimated loan losses that we believe is adequate to absorb any probable losses in our loan portfolio. Management determines the amount of the allowance based on an analysis of general market conditions, the credit quality of our loan portfolio and the performance of our customers relative to their financial obligations to us. We periodically evaluate the loan portfolio for risk grading, which can result in changes in the allowance. The amount of future losses is affected by changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control, and such losses may exceed the allowance for estimated loan losses. Although we believe that our allowance for estimated loan losses is adequate to absorb any probable losses on existing loans that may become uncollectible, there can be no assurance that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future. If actual losses exceed the estimate, the excess losses could adversely affect our net income and capital. Such excess could also lead to larger allowances for loan losses in future periods, which could in turn adversely affect new income and capital in those periods. If economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used in the estimate, or if the performance of our loan portfolio deteriorates, future losses may occur, and increases in the allowance may be necessary, either of which would have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Additionally, federal banking regulators periodically review the adequacy of our allowance for estimated loan losses. These agencies may require additional allowances based on their judgment of the information available at the time of their examinations. If these regulatory agencies require us to increase our allowance for estimated loan losses, our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected.. We may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses as a result of a recent change to an accounting standard.. The measure of our allowance for loan losses depends in part on the adoption and interpretation of accounting standards. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, recently issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses. This ASU provides a new credit impairment model, the Current Expected Credit Loss, or CECL model, which will apply to us beginning on January 1, 2020, though we may choose, or may be encouraged by our regulators, to adopt CECL on January 1, 2019. CECL will require financial institutions to estimate and develop a provision for credit losses at origination for the lifetime of the loan, as opposed to reserving for incurred or probable losses up to the balance sheet date. Under the CECL model, credit deterioration would be reflected in the income statement in the period of origination or acquisition of the loan, with changes in expected credit losses due to further credit deterioration or improvement reflected in the periods in which the expectation changes. Accordingly, implementation of the CECL model will change our current method of providing allowances for loan losses, which would likely require us to increase our allowance for loan losses. Moreover, the CECL model likely would create more volatility in our level of allowance for loan losses. A material increase in our level of allowance for loan losses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our use of appraisals in deciding whether to make a loan secured by real property does not ensure the value of the real property collateral.. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we generally require an appraisal. However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time that the appraisal is made. If the appraisal does not reflect the amount that may be obtained upon any sale or foreclosure of the property, then we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property.. 15. Table of Contents. Any expansion into new markets or new lines of business might not be successful.. As part of our ongoing strategic plan, we may consider expansion into new geographic markets. Such expansion might take the form of the establishment of de novo branches or the acquisition of existing banks or bank branches. There are considerable costs associated with opening new branches, and new branches generally do not generate sufficient revenues to offset costs until they have been in operation for some time. Additionally, we may consider expansion into new lines of business through the acquisition of third parties or organic growth and development. There are substantial risks associated with such efforts, including risks that (i) revenues from such activities might not be sufficient to offset the development, compliance and other implementation costs; (ii) competing products and services and shifting market preferences might affect the profitability of such activities; and (iii) our internal controls might be inadequate to manage the risks associated with new activities. Furthermore, it is possible that our unfamiliarity with new markets or lines of business might adversely affect the success of such actions. If any such expansion into a new geographic or product market is not successful, there could be an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We have incurred, and expect to continue incurring, substantial expenses related to our recent acquisitions.. We have incurred, and expect to continue incurring, substantial expenses in connection with completing our recent acquisitions and integrating the operations of the acquired businesses with our operations. A number of factors beyond our control could affect the total amount or the timing of our transaction and integration expenses, and such expenses may exceed our initial projections. Many of the expenses that will be incurred by their nature are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. As a result, the transaction and integration expenses associated with our recent acquisitions could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings related to the integration of the acquired businesses.. Acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value, and integrating acquired companies may be more difficult, costly, or time-consuming than expected.. Our business strategy focuses on both organic growth and growth through acquisitions of financial institutions located in the southeastern United States. Our pursuit of acquisitions may disrupt our business, and common stock that we issue as merger consideration may have the effect of diluting the value of your investment. In addition, we may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of completed acquisitions, including our acquisitions of Private Bancshares and Patriot in 2017 and of FirstAtlantic in January 2018. We anticipate that the continued integration process for these entities and any other businesses that we may acquire in the future will be a time-consuming and expensive process, even if the integration process is effectively planned and implemented.. In addition, our acquisition activities could be material to our business and involve a number of significant risks, including the following:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincurring time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and negotiating potential transactions, resulting in management’s attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tusing inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management, and market risks with respect to the target company or the assets and liabilities that we seek to acquire;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tintense competition from other banking organizations and other potential acquirers, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of banks and businesses that we acquire, including, without limitation, liabilities for regulatory and compliance issues;. 16. Table of Contents. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinability to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and other projected benefits of the acquisition;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tincurring time and expense required to integrate the operations and personnel of the combined businesses;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tinconsistencies in standards, procedures, and policies that would adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\texperiencing higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new operations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcreating an adverse short-term effect on our results of operations;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tlosing key employees and customers;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsignificant problems relating to the conversion of the financial and customer data of the acquired entity;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tdifficulties with integrating acquired customers into our financial and customer product systems;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpotential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company; or. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trisks of impairment to goodwill or other-than-temporary impairment of investment securities.. If difficulties arise with respect to the integration process, then the economic benefits expected to result from an acquisition might not occur. As with any merger of financial institutions, there also may be business disruptions that cause customers to move their business to other financial institutions. Failure to successfully integrate businesses that we acquire could have an adverse effect on our profitability, return on equity, return on assets or ability to implement our strategy, any of which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.. Our liquidity needs might adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. The primary sources of funds for the Bank are customer deposits and loan repayments. Loan repayments are subject to the credit risks described above. In addition, deposit levels may be affected by a number of factors, including interest rates paid by competitors, general interest rate levels, returns available to customers on alternative investments and general economic conditions. Therefore, we may be required to rely from time to time on secondary sources of liquidity to meet withdrawal demands or otherwise fund operations or support growth. The Bank has lines of credit in place with the FHLB and correspondent banks that management believes are adequate to meet our liquidity needs. However, there can be no assurance that these arrangements will be sufficient to meet future liquidity needs, particularly if loan demand grows faster than anticipated.. As a bank holding company, the sources of funds available to NCC are limited.. Any future constraints on liquidity at the holding company level could impair NCC’s ability to declare and pay dividends on its common stock. In some instances, notice to, or approval from, the Federal Reserve may be required prior to NCC’s declaration or payment of dividends. Further, our banking operations are conducted by NBC, which is subject to significant regulation. Federal banking laws restrict the payment of dividends by banks to their holding companies, and NBC is subject to these restrictions with respect to paying dividends to NCC. For example, NBC’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock to NCC without OCC approval is limited under federal banking laws such that the amount available for payment may not exceed NBC’s retained net income available to holders of its common stock to date for the then-current fiscal year, plus retained net income from the prior two fiscal years. Because NCC’s ability to receive dividends from NBC is restricted, its ability to pay dividends to its own stockholders is also restricted.. Additionally, the right of a bank holding company to participate in the assets of its subsidiary bank in the event of a bank-level liquidation or reorganization is subject to the claims of the bank’s creditors, including depositors, which take priority, except to the extent that the holding company may be a creditor with a recognized claim.. 17. Table of Contents. Our largest loan relationships currently make up a material percentage of our total loan portfolio.. As of December 31, 2017, our ten largest loan relationships totaled more than $122.6 million in loan exposure, or 4.7% of our total loan portfolio. The concentration risk associated with having a small number of large loan relationships is that, if one or more of these relationships were to become delinquent or suffer default, we could be at serious risk of material losses. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover losses associated with any of these relationships, and any loss or increase in the allowance would negatively affect our earnings and capital. Even if the loans are collateralized, the large increase in classified assets could harm our reputation with our regulators and inhibit our ability to execute our business plan.. Several of our large depositors have relationships with each other, which creates a higher risk that one customer’s withdrawal of its deposit could lead to a loss of other deposits from customers within the relationship, which, in turn, could force us to fund our business through more expensive and less stable sources.. As of December 31, 2017, our ten largest non-brokered depositors accounted for $383.3 million in deposits, or approximately 16.8% of our total deposits. Further, our non-brokered deposit account balance was $2.29 billion, or approximately 99.5% of our total deposits, as of December 31, 2017. Several of our large depositors have business, family or other relationships with each other, which creates a risk that any one customer’s withdrawal of its deposit could lead to a loss of other deposits from customers within the relationship.. Withdrawals of deposits by any one of our largest depositors or by one of these related customer groups could force us to rely more heavily on borrowings and other sources of funding for our business and withdrawal demands, adversely affecting our net interest margin and results of operations. We may also be forced, as a result of any withdrawal of deposits, to rely more heavily on other, potentially more expensive and less stable funding sources. Consequently, the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects.. Our factoring services are concentrated in the transportation and automotive parts and services industry, and economic conditions or other factors negatively impacting the transportation and automotive parts and services industry could adversely affect our factoring business.. Factoring for transportation and automotive parts and services businesses constituted approximately 89% of our total factoring business as of December 31, 2017, calculated based on the gross purchases of invoices from such businesses compared to total gross purchases of factored receivables for December 2017. Given the concentration of our factoring business in the transportation and automotive parts and services industries, economic conditions or other factors that negatively impact these industries could impact our factoring revenues, as the revenues earned from purchasing invoices are directly correlated with the amount of revenue generated by our factoring clients (i.e., the volume of transportation and automotive parts and services invoices that they are able to generate by providing their services). Reductions in economic activity will typically cause a decrease in the volume of goods in commerce available to be transported by our factoring clients. Moreover, the operations of a large number of our factoring clients are susceptible to changing economic conditions in the energy industry. For example, fluctuations in prices of oil and diesel fuel may affect demand for transportation services, which may in turn affect the ability of such factoring clients to satisfy their obligations to us. Additionally, the factoring industry may not continue its historical growth, and we may face increased competition. A failure to compete effectively in our market could restrain our growth or cause a loss in market share. Any of these events could adversely impact the returns that we realize on our factoring activities or result in a decrease in the overall amount of our factoring activities and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. 18. Table of Contents. Additional regulations and rulemaking impacting the transportation industry may have a disproportionate impact on the small to medium-sized trucking businesses that comprise our primary transportation factoring clients and adversely affect our factoring business.. Our primary transportation factoring clients are small to medium-sized owner-operators and trucking fleets. Recently implemented federal regulations, and regulations proposed to be implemented in the future, may significantly increase the costs and expenses associated with owning or operating a trucking fleet. These regulations include maximum hours of service limitations and other rules promulgated by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration of the United States Department of Transportation, electronic log requirements, regulations proposed by the federal Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) requiring increased labeling and monitoring by carriers of any FDA-regulated commodity, and regulations regarding the amount of combined single-limit liability insurance coverage required of carriers. The costs and burdens of compliance with these requirements will have a disproportionate impact on the small to medium-sized trucking businesses that comprise our factoring client base and could force some or all of these businesses out of the market. Such an occurrence could adversely impact the returns that we realize on our factoring activities or result in a decrease in the overall amount of our factoring activities and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our asset-based lending and factoring products may expose us to an increased risk of fraud.. We rely on the structural features embedded in our asset-based lending and factoring products to mitigate the credit risk associated with such products. With respect to asset-based loans, we limit our lending to a percentage of the customer’s borrowing base assets that we believe can be readily liquidated in the event of financial distress of the borrower. With respect to factoring products, we purchase the underlying invoices of our customers and become the direct payee under such invoices, thus transferring the credit risk in such transactions from our customers to the underlying account debtors on such invoices. In the event that one or more customers fraudulently represents the existence or valuation of borrowing base assets in the case of an asset-based loan, or the existence or validity of a purchased invoice in the case of a factoring transaction, we may advance more funds to such customers than we otherwise would and lose the benefit of the structural protections of our products with respect to such advances. In such event, we could be exposed to material additional losses with respect to such loans or factoring products. Although we believe that we have adequate controls in place to monitor and detect fraud with respect to our asset-based lending and factoring products, there is no guarantee that such controls will be effective. Losses from such fraudulent activity could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may not be able to adequately measure and limit the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio, which could adversely affect our profitability.. As a part of the products and services that we offer, we make commercial business and real estate loans. The principal economic risk associated with each class of loans is the creditworthiness of the borrower, which is affected by the strength of the relevant business market segment, local market conditions and general economic conditions. Additional factors related to the credit quality of commercial loans include the quality of the management of the business and the borrower’s ability both to properly evaluate changes in the supply and demand characteristics affecting the market for its products and services and to effectively respond to those changes. Additional factors related to the credit quality of commercial real estate loans include tenant vacancy rates and the quality of management of the property. A failure to effectively measure and limit the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We operate in a highly competitive industry and face significant competition from other financial institutions and financial services providers, which may decrease our growth or profits.. Consumer and commercial banking are highly competitive industries. Our market areas contain not only a large number of community and regional banks, but also a significant presence of the country’s largest commercial banks. We compete with other state and national financial institutions, as well as savings and loan associations, savings banks and credit unions, for deposits and loans. In addition, we compete with financial intermediaries, such as consumer finance companies, commercial finance companies, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, securities firms, mutual funds and several government agencies, as well as major retailers, all actively engaged in providing various types of loans and other financial services. Some of these competitors may have a long history of successful operations in our market areas, greater ties to local businesses and more expansive banking relationships, as well as more established depositor bases, fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures, than we do. Competitors with greater resources may possess an advantage through their ability to maintain numerous banking locations in more convenient sites, to conduct more extensive promotional and advertising campaigns, or to operate a more developed technology platform. Due to their size, many competitors may offer a broader range of products and services, as well as better pricing for certain products and services, than we can offer. For example, in the current low interest rate environment, competitors with lower costs of capital may solicit our customers to refinance their loans with a lower interest rate. Further, increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions may adversely affect our ability to market our products and services. Technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for banks to compete in our market areas without a retail footprint by offering competitive rates and for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks.. 19. Table of Contents. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking.. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to develop, maintain, and build upon long-term customer relationships based on quality service and high ethical standards;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to attract and retain qualified employees to operate our business effectively;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tour ability to expand our market position;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe scope, relevance, and pricing of products and services that we offer to meet customer needs and demands;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tthe rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tcustomer satisfaction with our level of service; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tindustry and general economic trends.. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a community bank, we have lower lending limits and different lending risks than certain of our larger, more diversified competitors.. We are a community banking institution that provides banking services to the local communities in the market areas in which we operate. Our ability to diversify our economic risks is limited by our own local markets and economies. We lend primarily to individuals and small to medium-sized businesses, which may expose us to greater lending risks than those of banks that lend to larger, better-capitalized businesses with longer operating histories. In addition, our legally mandated lending limits are lower than those of certain of our competitors that have more capital than we do. These lower lending limits may discourage borrowers with lending needs that exceed our limits from doing business with us. We may try to serve such borrowers by selling loan participations to other financial institutions; however, this strategy may not succeed.. Our financial projections are based on numerous assumptions about future events, and our actual financial performance may differ materially from our projections if our assumptions are inaccurate.. If the communities in which we operate do not grow, or if the prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are less favorable than we have assumed, then our ability to reduce our non-performing loans and other real estate owned portfolios and to implement our business strategies may be adversely affected, and our actual financial performance may be materially different from our projections.. 20. Table of Contents. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our market areas even if they do occur. If our senior management team is unable to provide the effective leadership necessary to implement our strategic plan for the Bank, then our actual financial performance may be materially adversely different from our projections. Additionally, to the extent that any component of our strategic plan requires regulatory approval, if we are unable to obtain necessary approval, we will be unable to completely implement our strategy, which may adversely affect our actual financial results. A failure to successfully implement our strategic plan could adversely affect the price of our common stock.. Our recent acquisitions may make it difficult for investors to evaluate our business, financial condition and results of operations and may also impair our ability to accurately forecast our future performance.. We acquired United Group Banking Company of Florida, Inc. and a controlling interest in CBI in 2014, Reunion Bank of Florida in 2015, Private Bancshares and Patriot in 2017 and FirstAtlantic in January 2018. Our limited history operating these businesses and the lack of combined historical financial information relating to the more recent acquisitions may not provide an adequate basis for investors to evaluate our business, financial condition and results of operations or to assess trends that may be affecting the acquired businesses or our business as a whole. Our future operating results depend on a number of factors, including our ability to continue to integrate these acquisitions, manage our growth, retain the respective customer bases and successfully identify and respond to emerging trends affecting our primary product lines and markets. As a result of these uncertainties, predictions about our future financial performance may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer operating history, which in turn may affect the trading price and volatility of our common stock.. Because our business success depends significantly on key management personnel, the departure of such personnel could impair operations.. We depend heavily on our senior management team. The loss of the services of a member of our senior management team, or an inability to attract other experienced banking personnel, could adversely affect our business. Some of these adverse effects could include the loss of personal contacts with existing or potential customers, as well as the loss of special technical knowledge, experience and skills of such individuals who are responsible for our operations.. We may be adversely affected by the lack of soundness of other financial institutions.. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial institutions or market utilities, or the financial services industry generally, may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence, and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions.. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties.. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information, as well as representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. With respect to financial statements, we may rely on reports of independent auditors. In deciding whether to extend credit or engage in other business transactions, we may rely on our customers’ representations that their financial statements conform to GAAP and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the customer. We may also rely on customer representations and certifications, or other audit or accountants’ reports, with respect to the business and financial condition of our clients. Our financial condition, results of operations, financial reporting and reputation could be negatively affected if we rely on materially misleading, false, inaccurate, or fraudulent information.. 21. Table of Contents. We are subject to environmental risk in our lending activities.. Because a significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property, we may foreclose on and take title to such property in the ordinary course of business. If hazardous substances are found on such property, we could be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws might require us to incur substantial expenses, materially reduce the property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the property. Although management has policies requiring environmental reviews before loans secured by real property are made and before foreclosure is commenced, it is still possible that environmental risks might not be detected and that the associated costs might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We continually encounter technological change and may have fewer resources than our competitors to invest in technological improvements.. The banking and financial services industries are undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to enhancing the level of service provided to customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that enhance customer convenience and create additional efficiencies in operations. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technological improvements, and we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services, which could reduce our ability to effectively compete.. Our information systems may experience a failure or interruption.. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure or interruption in the operation of these systems could impair or prevent the effective operation of our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, lending or other functions. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure or interruption in the operation of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions impacting our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business and expose us to additional regulatory scrutiny, civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We use information technology in our operations and offer online banking services to our customers, and unauthorized access to our or our customers’ confidential or proprietary information as a result of a cyber-attack or otherwise could expose us to reputational harm and litigation and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers.. Information security risks for financial institutions have generally increased in recent years, in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists and other external parties. We are under a continuous threat of loss due to hacking and cyber-attacks, especially as we continue to expand customer capabilities to utilize the internet and other remote channels to transact business. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of the evolving nature and complexity of these threats from cybercriminals and hackers, our plans to continue to provide internet banking and mobile banking channels and our plans to develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers. Therefore, the secure processing, transmission and storage of information in connection with our online banking services are critical elements of our operations. However, our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other malware, phishing schemes or other security failures. In addition, our customers may use personal smartphones, tablets or other mobile devices that are beyond our control systems in order to access our products and services. Our technologies, systems and networks, as well as our customers’ devices, may become the target of cyber-attacks, electronic fraud or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our customers’ confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our customers’ or other third parties’ business operations. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against these threats or to alleviate or investigate problems caused by such threats. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the processing, storage or transmission of confidential customer information, any breaches or unauthorized access to such information could present significant regulatory costs and expose us to litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent these types of security threats could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could adversely affect our reputation and ability to generate deposits. While we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches to date, we may suffer such losses in the future. The occurrence of any cyber-attack or information security breach could result in potential legal liability, reputational harm, damage to our competitive position and the disruption of our operations, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.. 22. Table of Contents. We depend on outside third parties for the processing and handling of our records and data, which exposes us to additional risk for cybersecurity breaches or regulatory actions.. We rely on software and internet-based platforms developed by third-party vendors to process various transactions. In some cases, we have contracted with third parties to run their proprietary software on our behalf. These systems include, but are not limited to, general ledger, payroll, employee benefits, loan and deposit processing, and securities portfolio accounting. If these third-party service providers experience difficulties, are subject to cybersecurity breaches or terminate their services, and we are unable to replace them with other service providers on a timely basis, our operations could be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. While we perform a review of controls instituted by the applicable vendors over these programs in accordance with industry standards and perform our own testing of user controls, we must rely on the continued maintenance of controls by these third-party vendors, including safeguards over the security of customer data. In addition, we maintain, or contract with third parties to maintain, daily backups of key processing outputs in the event of a failure on the part of any of these systems. Nonetheless, we may incur a temporary disruption in our ability to conduct business or process transactions, or damage to our reputation, if the third-party vendor fails to adequately maintain internal controls or institute necessary changes to systems. Such a disruption or breach of security may have a material adverse effect on our business.. In addition, federal regulators have issued guidance outlining their expectations for third-party service provider oversight and monitoring by financial institutions. Any failure to adequately oversee the actions of our third-party service providers could result in regulatory actions against us, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The internal controls that we have implemented to mitigate risks inherent to the business of banking might fail or be circumvented.. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls and procedures that are designed to manage the various risks in our business, including credit risk, operational risk and interest rate risk. No system of controls, however well-designed and operated, can provide absolute assurance that the objectives of the system will be met. If there were a failure of such a system, or if a system were circumvented, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our financial statements.. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the SEC may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. Such changes may result in new or different accounting and reporting standards. In addition, the bodies that interpret the accounting standards (such as banking regulators or outside auditors) may change their interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retrospectively, or to apply an existing standard differently, also retrospectively, in each case resulting in a need to revise or restate prior period financial statements.. 23. Table of Contents. Adverse weather or manmade events could negatively affect our core markets or disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. Our market areas are susceptible to natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, tropical storms, other severe weather events related flooding and wind damage and manmade disasters, such as the 2010 oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future weather or manmade events will affect our operations or the economies in our current or future market areas, but such events could negatively impact economic conditions in these regions and result in a decline in local loan demand and loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans, damage to our banking facilities and offices, and an increase in delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of natural or manmade disasters. Further, severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other external events could adversely affect us in a number of ways, including an increase in delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults that could result in a higher level of non-performing assets, net charge-offs, and provision for loan losses. Such risks could also impair the value of collateral securing our outstanding loans and hurt our deposit base.. We may become involved from time to time in suits, legal proceedings, information-gathering requests, investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory agencies that may lead to adverse consequences.. Many aspects of the banking business involve some risk of legal liability. From time to time, we may be named or threatened to be named as defendants in lawsuits arising from our business activities (and in some cases from the activities of companies that we have acquired). In addition, from time to time, we could become the subject of governmental and self-regulatory agency information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations, proceedings and other forms of regulatory inquiry, including by bank regulatory agencies, the SEC and law enforcement authorities. The results of such proceedings could lead to significant civil or criminal penalties, including monetary penalties, damages, adverse judgments, settlements, fines, injunctions, restrictions on the way in which we conduct our business or reputational harm.. Federal income tax reform could have unforeseen effects on our financial condition and results of operations.. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. The Company is still in the process of analyzing this law and its possible effects on the Company. The law includes a number of provisions, including the lowering of the United States corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, effective January 1, 2018. There are also provisions that may partially offset the benefit of such rate reduction. Financial statement impacts include adjustments for, among other things, the re-measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities. While the provisions of the law generally are expected to benefit the Company, the law remains subject to implementation through rulemaking and administrative guidance that has not yet been implemented. The Company anticipates that the impact of Tax Cuts and Jobs Act may be material to our business, financial condition and results of operations; however, the intended and unintended consequences of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and of future tax legislation on our business are uncertain.. Risks Relating to the Regulation of the Banking Industry. We are subject to extensive regulation in the conduct of our business, which imposes additional costs on us and adversely affects our profitability.. As a financial holding company, NCC is subject to federal regulation under the BHCA and the examination and reporting requirements of the Federal Reserve. As a national banking association, NBC is subject to federal regulation under the National Bank Act and the examination and reporting requirements of the OCC. Federal regulation of the banking industry, along with tax and accounting laws, regulations, rules and standards, may limit our operations significantly and control the methods by which we conduct business. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors, deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and not stockholders or creditors. These regulations affect lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and overall growth, among other things. For example, federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations limit the manner in which we may offer and extend credit. In addition, the laws governing bankruptcy generally favor debtors, making it more expensive and more difficult to collect from customers who become subject to bankruptcy proceedings.. 24. Table of Contents. The Federal Reserve and OCC periodically conduct examinations of our business, including our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Accommodating such examinations may require management to reallocate resources that would otherwise be used in our day-to-day operations. If, as a result of an examination, any such banking agency was to determine that the financial condition, capital resources, allowance for loan losses, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity or other aspects of our operations had become unsatisfactory, or that we or our management were in violation of any law or regulation, such banking agency may take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate. These actions include the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in capital, to restrict our growth, to assess civil monetary penalties against us and our officers and directors, to remove officers and directors, and, if it is concluded that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate our deposit insurance. If we become subject to such a regulatory action, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. FDIC deposit insurance assessments may continue to materially increase in the future, which would have an adverse effect on our earnings.. As a member institution of the FDIC, NBC is assessed a quarterly deposit insurance premium. In the aftermath of the most recent recession, a number of bank failures led to a depletion of the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC has adopted a Deposit Insurance Fund Restoration Plan, which requires the Deposit Insurance Fund to attain a 1.35% reserve ratio by September 30, 2020. As a result of this requirement, NBC could be required to pay significantly higher premiums or additional special assessments that would adversely affect its earnings, thereby reducing the availability of funds to pay dividends to NCC (subject to the other limitations discussed herein).. We are subject to certain capital requirements by our regulators.. Applicable regulations require us to maintain specific capital standards in relation to the credit risks of our assets and off-balance sheet exposures. Various components of these requirements are subject to qualitative judgments by regulators. Both NCC and NBC are “well capitalized” under the current regulatory framework. A failure to remain “well capitalized” could affect our customers’ confidence, which could adversely affect our ability to do business. In addition, a failure to maintain such status could also result in restrictions imposed by regulatory authorities on our growth and other activities. Any such effect on customers or restrictions by regulators could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, including as a result of potential increased minimum capital thresholds established by regulators, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or may be dilutive to stockholders.. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate capital levels to support our operations. New regulations implementing minimum capital standards could require financial institutions to maintain higher minimum capital ratios and may place a greater emphasis on common equity as a component of “Tier 1 Capital,” which consists generally of shareholders’ equity and qualifying preferred stock, less certain goodwill items and other intangible assets. In order to support operations and comply with regulatory standards, we may need to raise capital in the future, and in some cases, NCC may be required to contribute capital to NBC. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, on our financial performance and on a successful execution of our growth strategy. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that any additional needed capital will be available on favorable terms. The capital and credit markets have experienced significant volatility in recent years. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If we have to raise capital in the form of debt, we may have to pledge our assets, including our stock in NBC. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected, and banking regulatory authorities may subject us to regulatory enforcement action, including receivership. Furthermore, an issuance of additional shares of our common stock could dilute the economic ownership interest of our stockholders.. 25. Table of Contents. We are subject to numerous laws designed to protect consumers, including the Community Reinvestment Act and fair lending laws, and failure to comply with these laws could lead to a wide variety of sanctions.. The CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. The United States Department of Justice and other federal agencies are responsible for enforcing these laws and regulations. A successful regulatory challenge to an institution’s performance under the CRA or fair lending laws and regulations could result in a wide variety of sanctions, including damages and civil money penalties, injunctive relief, restrictions on merger and acquisition activities, restrictions on expansion and restrictions on entering new business lines. Private parties may also have the ability to challenge an institution’s performance under fair lending laws in private class action litigation. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. We are subject to laws regarding the privacy, information security and protection of personal information, and any violation of these laws or unauthorized disclosure of such information could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of customer data, including personally identifiable information in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract to provide data services. We also maintain important internal data, such as personally identifiable information about our employees and information relating to our operations. We are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations governing the privacy and protection of personal information of individuals (including customers, employees, suppliers and other third parties). For example, our business is subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which, among other things: (i) imposes certain limitations on our ability to share nonpublic personal information about our customers with nonaffiliated third parties; (ii) requires us to provide certain disclosures to customers about our information collection, sharing and security practices and to afford customers the right to “opt out” of any information sharing by us with nonaffiliated third parties (with certain exceptions); and (iii) requires us to develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing appropriate safeguards based on our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our activities, and the sensitivity of customer information we process, as well as plans for responding to data security breaches. Various state and federal banking regulators and state legislatures have also enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulatory or law enforcement notification in the event of a security breach. Ensuring that our collection, use, transfer and storage of personal information complies with all applicable laws and regulations can increase our costs. Furthermore, we may not be able to ensure that all of our clients, suppliers, counterparties and other third parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the information that they exchange with us, particularly where such information is transmitted by electronic means. If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or others were to be mishandled or misused (in situations where, for example, such information was erroneously provided to unauthorized persons, or where such information was intercepted or otherwise compromised by third parties), we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory sanctions under applicable laws and regulations. Concerns about the effectiveness of our measures to safeguard personal information could cause us to lose customers or potential customers for our products and services and thereby reduce our revenues. Accordingly, any failure or perceived failure to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws and regulations may subject us to inquiries, examinations and investigations that could result in requirements to modify or cease certain operations or practices or in significant liabilities, fines or penalties, and could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial condition.. We are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations, and any deemed deficiency by our regulators with respect to these laws could result in significant liability.. Federal law requires financial institutions to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports when appropriate. In addition to other bank regulatory agencies, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the United States Department of the Treasury is authorized to impose significant civil money penalties for violations of those requirements and has recently engaged in coordinated enforcement efforts with state and federal banking regulators, as well as the United States Department of Justice, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Drug Enforcement Administration, and Internal Revenue Service. We are also subject to increased scrutiny with regard to our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control regarding, among other things, the prohibition on transacting business with, and the need to freeze assets of, certain persons and organizations identified as a threat to the national security, foreign policy or economy of the United States. If our policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient, we could be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may include restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including acquisition activities. Failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects.. 26. Table of Contents. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock. The market price of our common stock may be subject to substantial fluctuations, which may make it difficult for you to sell your shares at the volumes, prices, or times desired.. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, including:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tactual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, financial condition, or asset quality;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tmarket conditions in the broader stock market in general, or in the financial services industry in particular;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tpublication of research reports about us, our competitors, or the financial services industry generally, or changes in, or failure to meet, securities analysts’ estimates of our financial and operating performance, or lack of research reports by industry analysts or ceasing of coverage;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tfuture issuances of our common stock or other securities;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tsignificant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tadditions or departures of key personnel;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\ttrades of large blocks of our stock;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\teconomic and political conditions or events;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tproposed or adopted changes in laws, regulations or policies affecting us;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tother regulatory developments; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tother news, announcements, or disclosures (whether by us or others) related to us, our competitors, our core markets, or the financial services industry.. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock.. We have not historically paid dividends to our stockholders and cannot guarantee that we will pay dividends to our stockholders in the future.. Holders of our common stock will receive dividends if and when declared by our board of directors out of legally available funds. Our board of directors has not declared a dividend on our common stock since our inception. Any future determination relating to our dividend policy will be made at the discretion of the board of directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, regulatory restrictions, and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant.. Our principal business operations are conducted through NBC. Cash available to pay dividends to stockholders of NCC is derived primarily, if not entirely, from dividends paid by NBC to NCC. The ability of NBC to pay dividends to NCC, and therefore NCC’s ability to pay dividends to its stockholders, will continue to be subject to, and limited by, certain legal and regulatory restrictions. Further, any lenders making loans to us may impose financial covenants that may be more restrictive with respect to dividend payments than regulatory requirements.. 27. Table of Contents. A future issuance of stock could dilute the value of our common stock.. Our certificate of incorporation provides that we may issue up to 30,000,000 shares of common stock. As of March 7, 2018, 17,220,188 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding. Those shares outstanding do not include the potential issuance, as of March 7, 2018, of (i) 305,876 shares of our common stock subject to issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants to purchase our common stock, (ii) 220,921 shares of our common stock potentially issuable pursuant to outstanding performance awards (based on projections of the earned percentages of the respective awards as of such date),or (iii) approximately 72,026 shares that have been earned but deferred (and therefore not yet issued) under the National Commerce Corporation Deferral of Compensation Plan for Key Employees and Non-Employee Directors. Any future issuance of new shares could cause further dilution in the value of outstanding shares of our common stock.. Our directors and executive officers beneficially own a significant portion of our outstanding common stock and have substantial influence over us.. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 14.3% of our common stock as of March 7, 2018. As a result of this level of ownership, our directors and executive officers have the ability, by taking coordinated action, to exercise significant influence over our affairs and policies. The interests of our directors and executive officers may not be consistent with your interests as a stockholder. This influence may also have the effect of delaying or preventing changes of control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in the best interests of the Company.. Shares of our common stock are not insured deposits and may lose value.. Shares of our common stock are not savings or deposit accounts and are not insured by the FDIC or any other agency or private entity. Such shares are subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of some or all of the value of your investment.. The laws that regulate our operations are designed for the protection of depositors and the public, not our stockholders.. The federal and state laws and regulations applicable to our operations give regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement responsibilities and generally have been promulgated to protect depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund maintained by the FDIC, and not for the purpose of protecting stockholders. These laws and regulations can materially affect our future business. Laws and regulations now affecting us may be changed at any time, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations by bank regulatory authorities is also subject to change.. We are an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act, and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our common stock less attractive to investors.. We are an emerging growth company under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the “JOBS Act”), and we are therefore permitted to, and intend to, take advantage of exemptions from certain disclosure requirements. We are an emerging growth company until the earliest of: (i) the last day of the fiscal year during which we have total annual gross revenues of $1.0 billion or more; (ii) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our merger with United (December 31, 2019); (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt; or (iv) the date on which we are deemed a “large accelerated filer,” as defined under the federal securities laws. For so long as we remain an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, an exemption from compliance with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on certain executive compensation matters, such as “say on pay” and “say on frequency.” As a result, our stockholders may not have access to certain information that they may deem important. Although we intend to rely on certain of the exemptions provided in the JOBS Act, the exact implications of the JOBS Act for us are still subject to interpretations and guidance by the SEC and other regulatory agencies.. 28. Table of Contents. We cannot predict whether investors will find our common stock less attractive as a result of our decision to take advantage of these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock, and our stock price may be more volatile.. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract our management, which could make it difficult to manage our business, particularly after we are no longer an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act.. Since October 28, 2014, we have been required to comply with the regulatory and reporting requirements of the SEC, and since March 19, 2015, we have been subject to the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Complying with these reporting and other requirements is time consuming, results in increased costs to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. As a public company, we are subject to the requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires us to file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. To maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, we must commit significant resources and management oversight. We continue to implement procedures and processes to address the standards and requirements applicable to public companies. Sustaining our growth also requires us to commit additional resources to maintain appropriate operational and financial systems to adequately support our expansion. These activities may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.. As an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act, we are permitted to, and intend to, take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, an exemption from compliance with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. When these exemptions cease to apply, we expect to incur additional expenses and to devote increased management effort toward ensuring compliance with these reporting requirements.. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs that we may continue to incur as a result of being a public company or the timing of such costs.. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be effective, and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to their effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation.. We are currently required to comply with the SEC’s rules implementing Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which require management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. However, pursuant to the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting until we are no longer an emerging growth company.. 29. Table of Contents. When evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting, we may identify material weaknesses that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the applicable deadline imposed upon us for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that management can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We cannot be certain as to the timing of the completion of our evaluation, testing and any remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue an adverse opinion due to ineffective internal controls over financial reporting, and we may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control system and hiring additional personnel. Any such action could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows.. Our corporate governance documents, and certain corporate and banking laws applicable to us, could make a takeover more difficult.. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and corporate and federal banking laws, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or conduct a proxy contest, even if those events were perceived by many of our stockholders as beneficial to their interests. These provisions, and the corporate and banking laws and regulations applicable to us:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tempower our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock, the terms of which, including voting power, are set by the board;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tonly permit our board of directors or the chairman thereof to call a special stockholders’ meeting;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire at least 120 days’ advance notice of nominations for the election of directors and the presentation of stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\trequire prior regulatory application and approval of any transaction involving control of us.. These provisions may discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control, including under circumstances in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the market price of our common stock."                                                                          
