[1] "Item 1A.  \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRisk Factors. You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment.. We depend on contract renewals, including retention of key clients, for a large share of our revenue and our operating results could be adversely affected.. We expect that a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future will continue to be derived from renewable service contracts. Substantially all contracts are renewable annually at the option of our clients, although contracts with clients under unit-based arrangements generally have no minimum purchase commitments. Client contracts are generally cancelable on short notice without penalty, however we are entitled to payment for services through the cancellation date. To the extent that clients fail to renew or defer their renewals, we anticipate our results may be materially adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of key clients for a substantial portion of our revenue. The Company’s ten largest clients accounted for 19%, 17%, and 15% of the Company’s total revenue in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. Our ability to secure renewals depends on, among other things, our ability to gather and analyze performance data in a consistent, high-quality, and timely fashion. In addition, the service needs of our clients are affected by accreditation requirements, enrollment in managed care plans, the level of use of satisfaction measures in healthcare organizations’ overall management and compensation programs, the size of operating budgets, clients’ operating performance, industry and economic conditions, and changes in management or ownership. As these factors are beyond our control, we cannot ensure that we will be able to maintain our renewal rates. Any material decline in renewal rates from existing levels would have an adverse effect on our revenue and a corresponding effect on our operating and net income.. 8. Table of Contents. Our operating results may fluctuate and this may cause our stock price to decline.. Our overall operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including the size and timing of orders from clients, client demand for our services (which, in turn, is affected by factors such as accreditation requirements, enrollment in managed care plans, operating budgets and clients’ operating performance), the hiring and training of additional staff, expense increases, and industry and general economic conditions. Because a significant portion of our overhead is fixed in the short-term, particularly some costs associated with owning and occupying our building and full-time personnel expenses, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected in any particular period if revenue falls below our expectations. These factors, among others, make it possible that in some future period our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors which would have a material adverse effect on the market price of our class A common stock and/or our class B common stock.. We operate in a highly competitive market and could experience increased price pressure and expenses as a result.. The healthcare information and market research services industry is highly competitive. We have traditionally competed with healthcare organizations’ internal marketing, market research and/or quality improvement departments that create their own performance measurement tools, and with relatively small specialty research firms that provide survey-based healthcare market research and/or performance assessment. The Company’s primary competitors among such specialty firms include Press Ganey, which we believe has significantly higher annual revenue than us, and three or four other firms that we believe have lower annual revenue than us. To a certain degree, we currently compete with, and anticipate that in the future we may increasingly compete with, (1) market research firms and technology solutions which provide survey-based, general market research or Voice of the Customer Feedback capabilities and (2) firms which provide services or products that complement healthcare performance assessments, such as healthcare software or information systems. Although only a few of these competitors have offered specific services that compete directly with our services, many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, information gathering, and marketing resources than the Company and could decide to increase their resource commitments to our market. There are relatively few barriers to entry into the Company’s market, and we expect increased competition in our market which could adversely affect our operating results through pricing pressure, increased marketing expenditures, and market share losses, among other factors. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to compete successfully against existing or new competitors.. Because our clients are concentrated in the healthcare industry, our revenue and operating results may be adversely affected by changes in regulations, a business downturn or consolidation with respect to the healthcare industry.. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from clients in the healthcare industry. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations are influenced by conditions affecting this industry, including changing political, economic, competitive and regulatory influences that may affect the procurement practices and operation of healthcare providers and payers. The 2010 Federal comprehensive healthcare reform plan, which includes provisions to control healthcare costs, improve healthcare quality and expand access to affordable health insurance, could result in lower reimbursement rates and otherwise change the environment in which providers and payers operate. In addition, large private purchasers of healthcare services are placing increasing cost pressure on providers. Healthcare providers may react to these cost pressures and other uncertainties by curtailing or deferring purchases, including purchases of our services. Moreover, there has been consolidation of companies in the healthcare industry, a trend which we believe will continue to grow. Consolidation in this industry, including the potential acquisition of certain of our clients, could adversely affect aggregate client budgets for our services or could result in the termination of a client’s relationship with us. The impact of these developments on the healthcare industry is difficult to predict and could have an adverse effect on our revenue and a corresponding effect on our operating and net income.. 9. Table of Contents. We rely on third parties whose actions could have a material adverse effect on our business.. We outsource certain operations and engage third parties to perform work needed to fulfill our client services. For example, we use vendors to perform certain printing, mailing, information transmittal and other services related to our survey operations. If any of these vendors cease to operate or fail to adequately perform the contracted services and alternative resources and processes are not utilized in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. The loss of any of our key vendors could impair our ability to perform our client services and result in lower revenues and income. It would also be time-consuming and expensive to replace, either directly or through other vendors, the services performed by these vendors, which could adversely impact revenues, expenses and net income. Furthermore, our ability to monitor and direct our vendors’ activities is limited. If their actions and business practices violate policies, regulations or procedures otherwise considered illegal, we could be subject to reputational damage or litigation which would adversely affect our business.. We face several risks relating to our ability to collect the data on which our business relies.. Our ability to provide timely and accurate performance measurement and improvement services to our clients depends on our ability to collect large quantities of high-quality data through surveys and interviews. If our mail survey operations are disrupted and we are unable to mail our surveys in a timely manner, then our revenue and net income could be negatively impacted. If receptivity to our survey and interview methods by respondents declines, or, for some other reason, their willingness to complete and return surveys declines, or if we, for any reason, cannot rely on the integrity of the data we receive, then our revenue could be adversely affected with a corresponding effect on our operating and net income. We also rely on third-party panels of pre-recruited consumer households to produce NRC Health’s Market Insights in a timely manner. If we are not able to continue to use these panels, or the time period in which we use these panels is altered and we cannot find alternative panels on a timely, cost-competitive basis, we could face an increase in our costs or an inability to effectively produce NRC Health’s Market Insights. In either case, our operating and net income could be negatively affected.. Our principal shareholder effectively controls the Company, and holders of class A common stock are not able to independently elect directors of NRC Health or control any of the Company's management policies or business decisions because the holders of class A common stock have substantially less voting power than the holders of the Company's class B common stock, a majority of which is beneficially owned by our principal shareholder.. The Company's outstanding stock is divided into two classes of common stock: class A common stock and class B common stock. The class B common stock has one vote per share on all matters and the class A common stock has one-one-hundredth (1/100th) of one vote per share. As of February 16, 2018, the class B common stock constituted approximately 94% of NRC Health's total voting power. As a result, holders of class B common stock are able to exercise a controlling influence over the Company's business, have the power to elect its directors and indirectly control decisions such as whether to issue additional shares, declare and pay dividends or enter into significant corporate transactions. A majority of the class B common stock was historically owned by Michael D. Hays, our Chief Executive Officer. However, in January and February 2018 Mr. Hays, for estate planning purposes, gifted and/or transferred all of his directly owned class B common stock and class A common stock indirectly to the Amandla MK Trust (the “New Trust”), a trust for the benefit of Mr. Hays’ family.. 10. Table of Contents. As of February 16, 2018, approximately 53% of the outstanding class B common stock and approximately 26% of the outstanding class A common stock was owned by the New Trust, and that collectively constituted approximately 52% of the Company's total voting power. As a result, the New Trust can control matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate matters such as change of control transactions. The effects of such influence could be to delay or prevent a change of control of the Company unless the terms are approved by the New Trust.. The market prices of our two classes of common stock may be volatile and shareholders may be unable to resell shares at or above the price at which the shares were acquired.. The market price of stock can be highly volatile. As a result, the market prices and trading volumes of each of our two classes of common stock may also be highly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases that are in response to factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to:. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tVariations in our financial performance and that of similar companies;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tRegulatory and other developments that may impact the demand for our services;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tReaction to our press releases, public announcements and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tClient, market and industry perception of our services and performance;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tActions of our competitors;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChanges in earnings estimates or recommendations by analysts who follow our stock;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tLoss of key personnel;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tInvestor or management team sales of our stock;. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tChanges in accounting principles; and. <U+25CF> \t\t\t \t\t\t \t\t\tVariations in general market, economic and political conditions or financial markets.. Any of these factors, among others, may result in changes in the trading volumes and/or market prices of each of our classes common stock. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, shareholders have often filed securities class-action lawsuits. Our involvement in a class-action lawsuit would result in substantial legal fees and divert our senior management’s attention from operating our business, which could harm our business and net income.. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain key managers and other personnel.. Our future performance may depend, to a significant extent, upon the efforts and ability of our key personnel who have expertise in gathering, interpreting and marketing survey-based performance information for healthcare markets. Although client relationships are managed at many levels within our company, the loss of the services of Michael D. Hays, our Chief Executive Officer, or one or more of our other senior managers, could have a material adverse effect, at least in the short to medium term, on most significant aspects of our business, including strategic planning, product development, and sales and customer relations. Our success will also depend on our ability to hire, train and retain skilled personnel in all areas of our business. Currently, we do not have employment agreements with our officers or our other key personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, and many of the companies that compete with us for qualified personnel have substantially greater financial and other resources than us. Furthermore, we expect competition for qualified personnel to become more intense as competition in our industry increases. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified personnel to compete successfully.. 11. Table of Contents. If intellectual property and other proprietary information technology were copied or independently developed by our competitors, our operating results could be negatively affected.. Our success depends in part upon our data collection process, research methods, data analysis techniques, and internal systems and procedures that we have developed specifically to serve clients in the healthcare industry. We have no patents. Consequently, we rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret laws and associate nondisclosure agreements to protect our systems, survey instruments and procedures. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to protect our rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of such rights, or that third parties will not independently develop functionally equivalent or superior systems or procedures. We believe that our systems and procedures and other proprietary rights do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot assure you, however, that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future, or that any such claims will not result in protracted and costly litigation, regardless of the merits of such claims, or whether we are ultimately successful in defending against such claims.. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected if we experience business interruptions or failure of our information technology and communication systems.. Our ability to provide timely and accurate performance measurement and improvement services to our clients depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our information technology and communication systems, and those of our external service providers. Our systems and those of our external service providers, could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disasters, energy loss, telecommunication failure, security breach and computer viruses. An operational failure or outage in our information technology and communication systems or those of our external service providers, could result in loss of customers, damage to customer relationships, reduced revenue and profits, refunds of customer charges and damage our reputation and may result in additional expense to repair or replace damaged equipment and recover data loss resulting from the interruption. Although we have taken steps to prevent system failures and have back-up systems and procedures to prevent or reduce disruptions, such steps may not prevent an interruption of services and our disaster recovery planning may not account for all contingencies. Additionally, our insurance may not adequately compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. Any one of the above situations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.. Security breaches or computer viruses could harm our business.. In connection with our client services, we receive, process, store and transmit sensitive business information electronically over the internet. Computer viruses could spread throughout our systems and disrupt operations and service delivery. Unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information or the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruption in our operations. We cannot be certain that the technology protecting our networks and information will successfully prevent computer viruses, data thefts, release of confidential information or security breaches. A compromise in our data security systems that results in inappropriate disclosure of our associates', customers' or vendors' confidential information, could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory action and claims. Changes in privacy and information security laws and standards may require we incur significant expense to ensure compliance due to increased technology investment and operational procedures.  An inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses or failure to comply with privacy and information security laws could result in litigation and regulatory risk, loss of customers, damage to customer relationships, reduced revenue and profits, refunds of customer charges and damage our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.. Reputational harm could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our ability to maintain a good reputation is critical to selling our services. Our reputation could be adversely impacted by any of the following (whether or not valid): the failure to maintain high ethical and social standards; the failure to perform our client services in a timely manner; violations of laws and regulations; and the failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial information. Damage to our reputation or loss of our clients’ confidence in our services for any of these, or any other reasons, could adversely impact our business, revenues, financial condition, and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation.. 12. Table of Contents. Our operations are subject to laws and regulations that impose significant compliance costs and create reputational and legal risk.. Due to the nature of the services we offer, we are subject to significant commercial, trade and privacy regulations. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted, which could have a material and negative impact on our business and our results of operation. For example, recent years have seen an increase in the development or enforcement of legislation related to healthcare reform, privacy, trade compliance and anti-corruption. Additionally, some of the services we provide include information our clients need to fulfill regulatory reporting requirements. If our services result in errors or omissions in our clients’ regulatory reporting, we may be subject to loss of clients, reputational harm or litigation, each potentially adversely impacting our business. Furthermore, although we maintain a variety of internal policies and controls designed to educate, discourage, prevent and detect violations of such laws, we cannot guarantee that such actions will be effective or sufficient or that individual employees will not engage in inappropriate behavior in breach of our policies. Such conduct, or even an allegation of misbehavior, could result in material adverse reputational harm, costly investigations, severe criminal or civil sanctions, or could disrupt our business, and could negatively affect our results of operations or financial condition.. Failure to comply with public company regulations could adversely impact our profitability.. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of NASDAQ and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Additionally, laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are subject to varying interpretations and continue to develop and change. If we misinterpret or fail to comply with these rules and regulations, our legal and financial compliance costs and net income may be adversely affected.. Our growth strategy includes future acquisitions and/or investments which involve inherent risk.. In order to expand services or technologies to existing clients and increase our client base, we have historically, and may in the future, make strategic business acquisitions and/or investments that we believe complement our business. Acquisitions have inherent risks which may have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, or results of operations, including, among other things: (1) failure to successfully integrate the purchased operations, technologies, products or services and maintain uniform standard controls, policies and procedures; (2) substantial unanticipated integration costs; (3) loss of key associates including those of the acquired business; (4) diversion of management’s attention from other operations; (5) failure to retain the customers of the acquired business; (6) failure to achieve any projected synergies and performance targets; (7) additional debt and/or assumption of known or unknown liabilities; (8) dilutive issuances of equity securities; and (9) a write-off of goodwill, software development costs, client lists, other intangibles and amortization of expenses. If we fail to successfully complete acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses, we may not achieve projected results and there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations."                             
