[1] "Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. The following discussion of risk factors includes forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in such forward-looking statements. See \"Note on Forward-Looking Statements.\". Risks Relating to Our Business. If we are unable to accurately underwrite risks and charge competitive yet profitable rates to our policyholders, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.. In general, the premiums for our insurance policies are established at the time a policy is issued and, therefore, before all of our underlying costs are known. Like other insurance companies, we rely on estimates and assumptions in setting our premium rates. Establishing adequate premiums is necessary, together with investment income, to generate sufficient revenue to offset losses, loss adjustment expenses and other underwriting costs and to earn a profit. If we do not accurately assess the risks that we assume, we may not charge adequate premiums to cover our losses and expenses, which would negatively affect our results of operations and our profitability. Alternatively, we could set our premiums too high, which could reduce our competitiveness and lead to lower revenues.. Pricing involves the acquisition and analysis of historical loss data, and the projection of future trends, loss costs and expenses, and inflation trends, among other factors, for each of our products in multiple risk tiers and many different markets. In order to accurately price our policies, we:. • collect and properly analyze a substantial volume of data from our insureds;. • develop, test and apply appropriate actuarial projections and rating formulas;. • closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends; and. • project both frequency and severity of our insureds' losses with reasonable accuracy.. We seek to implement our pricing accurately in accordance with our assumptions. Our ability to undertake these efforts successfully and, as a result, accurately price our policies, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:. • insufficient or unreliable data;. • incorrect or incomplete analysis of available data;. • uncertainties generally inherent in estimates and assumptions;. • our failure to implement appropriate actuarial projections and rating formulas or other pricing methodologies;. • regulatory constraints on rate increases;. • unexpected escalation in the costs of ongoing medical treatment;. • our failure to accurately estimate investment yields and the duration of our liability for loss and LAE; and. • unanticipated court decisions, legislation or regulatory action.. If we are unable to establish and maintain accurate loss reserves, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.. Our financial statements include loss reserves, which represent our best estimate of the amounts that our insurance subsidiaries ultimately will pay on claims that have been incurred, and the related costs of adjusting those claims, as of the date of the financial statements. There is inherent uncertainty in the process of establishing insurance loss reserves.. As a result of these uncertainties, the ultimate paid loss and loss adjustment expenses may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the point-in-time estimates of such losses and expenses, as reflected in the loss reserves included in our financial statements. To the extent that loss and LAE exceed our estimates, we will be required to immediately recognize the unfavorable development and increase loss reserves, with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. Consequently, ultimate losses paid could materially exceed reported loss reserves and have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. 20. General economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, our liquidity and financial condition.. General economic factors beyond our control that affect our business include unemployment rates, consumer spending, residential and commercial real estate prices, U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns, tax rates and policies, and the availability of credit. Such conditions may potentially affect (among other aspects of our business) the demand for and claims made under our products, the ability of customers, counterparties and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us, our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources and our investment performance. In the event that these conditions result in a prolonged period of economic uncertainty, our results of operations, our financial condition and/or liquidity, our prospects and competitor landscape could be materially and adversely affected.. Our business is dependent on the efforts of our executive officers and other personnel. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, our business may be materially adversely affected.. Our success is dependent on the efforts of our executive officers because of their industry expertise, knowledge of our markets, and relationships with our independent agents. Should any of our executive officers cease working for us, we may be unable to find acceptable replacements with comparable skills and experience in the specialty P&C and A&H sectors that we target. In addition, our business is also dependent on skilled underwriters and other skilled employees. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract, train and retain, on a timely basis and on anticipated economic and other terms, experienced and capable senior management, underwriters and support staff. We intend to pay competitive salaries, bonuses and equity-based rewards in order to attract and retain such personnel, but we may not be successful in such endeavors. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. We do not currently maintain life insurance policies with respect to our executive officers or other employees.. Revenues and operating profits from our P&C segment depend on our production in several key states and adverse developments in these key states could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, our P&C segment derived 77.8% of its gross premium written from the following ten states: California (15.2%), North Carolina (15.2%), New York (14.8%), Florida (12.4%), Texas (4.8%), New Jersey (3.7%), Louisiana (3.4%), Virginia (3.2%), Michigan (2.8%) and Washington (2.3%). As a result, our financial results are subject to prevailing regulatory, legal, economic, demographic, competitive, and other conditions in these states. Adverse developments relating to any of these conditions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If we cannot sustain our business relationships, including our relationships with independent agents, agencies and other parties, we may be unable to compete effectively and operate profitably.. We market our P&C segment products primarily through a network of approximately 32,100 independent agents. Our relationships with our agents are generally governed by agreements that may be terminated on short notice. Independent agencies generally are not obligated to promote our products and may sell insurance offered by our competitors. As a result, our ability to compete and remain profitable depends, in part, on our maintaining our business relationship with our independent agents and agencies, the marketing efforts of our independent agents and agencies and on our ability to offer insurance products and maintain financial strength ratings that meet the requirements and preferences of our independent agents and agencies and their policyholders.. In connection with our lender-placed insurance business, we also have relationships with certain mortgage lenders and servicers, and we insure properties securing mortgages serviced by the mortgage loan servicers with whom we do business.. If such lenders terminate important business arrangements with us, or renew contracts on terms less favorable to us, our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. For example, in our lender-placed insurance business, restrictions imposed by state regulators on us or by federal regulators on our customers could affect our ability to do business with certain mortgage loan servicers or the volume or profitability of such business. Furthermore, the transfer by mortgage servicer clients of loan portfolios to other carriers or the new participation by other carriers in insuring or reinsuring lender-placed insurance risks could materially reduce our revenues and profits from this business.. Any failure on our part to be effective in any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.. 21. Our affinity channel depends on a relatively small number of affinity partner relationships for a significant percentage of the net premium revenue that it generates, and the loss of one of these significant affinity partner relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Our affinity channel operates primarily through relationships with affinity partners, which include major retailers and membership organizations. See Item 1, \"Business - P&C Segment - Distribution and Marketing - Affinity Distribution Channel.\" Our top two affinity relationships collectively represent 59.0% of our affinity channel written premium. Although our relationships with these and most of our other affinity partners are long-standing with long-term contracts, in the event of the termination of any of our significant affinity partner relationships, our net earned premium could be adversely affected.. If we, together with our affiliates and the other third parties that we contract with, are unable to maintain our technology platform or our technology platform fails to operate properly, or meet the technological demands of our customers with respect to the products and services we offer, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed.. In 2017, we acquired the policy administration system that we previously licensed from AmTrust. We also use technology systems to more accurately evaluate specific risk exposures in order to assist us in profitably underwriting our P&C products.. If we are unable to properly integrate and maintain our policy administration system and maintain our technology systems or if our technology systems otherwise fail to perform in the manner we currently contemplate, our ability to effectively underwrite and issue policies, process claims and perform other business functions could be significantly impaired and our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. In addition, the success of our business is dependent on our ability to resolve any issues identified with our technology arrangements during operations and make any necessary improvements in a timely manner. Further, we will need to match or exceed the technological capabilities of our competitors over time. We cannot predict with certainty the cost of such integration, maintenance and improvements, but failure to make such improvements could have an adverse effect on our business. See Item 1, \"Business - Technology.\". Also, we use e-commerce and other technology to provide, expand and market our products and services. Accordingly, we believe that it will be essential to continue to invest resources in maintaining electronic connectivity with customers and, more generally, in e-commerce and technology. Our business may suffer if we do not maintain these arrangements or keep pace with the technological demands of customers.. If we experience security breaches or other disruptions involving our technology, our ability to conduct our business could be adversely affected, we could be liable to third parties and our reputation could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.. Our business is dependent upon the uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and telecommunication systems. We rely upon our systems, as well as the systems of our vendors, for all our business operations, including underwriting and issuing policies, processing claims, providing customer service, complying with insurance regulatory requirements and performing actuarial and other analytical functions necessary for underwriting, pricing and product development. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to timely and efficiently maintain and improve our information and telecommunications systems and protect them from physical loss, telecommunications failure or other similar catastrophic events, as well as from security breaches. A shut-down of, or inability to access, one or more of our facilities, a power outage or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, terrorist attack or industrial accident, or due to a computer virus, our systems could be inaccessible for an extended period of time. While we have implemented business contingency plans and other reasonable and appropriate internal controls to protect our systems from interruption, loss or security breaches, a sustained business interruption or system failure could adversely impact our ability to process our business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions.. Our operations depend on the reliable and secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Computer viruses, hackers, employee misconduct and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches, cyberattacks or other disruptions. In addition, we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by electronic means. We have implemented security measures designed to protect against breaches of security and other interference with our systems and networks resulting from attacks by third parties, including hackers,. 22. and from employee or adviser error or malfeasance. We also assess and monitor the security measures of our third-party business partners, who in the provision of services to us are provided with or process information pertaining to our business or our customers. Despite these measures, we cannot assure you that our systems and networks will not be subject to breaches or interference. Any such event may result in operational disruptions as well as unauthorized access to or the disclosure or loss of our proprietary information or our customers' information, which in turn may result in legal claims, regulatory scrutiny and liability, reputational damage, the incurrence of costs to eliminate or mitigate further exposure, the loss of customers or affiliated advisors or other damage to our business. In addition, the trend toward broad consumer and general public notification of such incidents could exacerbate the harm to our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we successfully protect our technology infrastructure and the confidentiality of sensitive data, we could suffer harm to our business and reputation if attempted security breaches are publicized. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities, attempts to exploit vulnerabilities in our systems, data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology or other security measures protecting the networks and systems used in connection with our business.. We may not be able to successfully acquire or integrate additional businesses or manage the growth of our operations, which could make it difficult for us to compete and could adversely affect our profitability.. Since our formation, we have grown our business primarily through a number of acquisitions of insurance companies, agencies or books of business. Part of our growth strategy is to continue to grow our business through acquisitions. This strategy of growing through acquisitions subjects us to numerous risks, including risks associated with:. • our ability to identify profitable geographic markets for entry;. • our ability to identify potential acquisition targets and successfully acquire them on acceptable terms and in a timely manner;. • our ability to integrate acquired businesses smoothly and efficiently;. • our ability to achieve expected synergies, profitability and return on our investment;. • the diversion of management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our business;. • our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for expanded operations;. • encountering unforeseen operating difficulties or incurring unforeseen costs and liabilities;. • our ability to manage risks associated with entering into geographic and product markets with which we are less familiar;. • our ability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals;. • our ability to expand existing agency relationships; and. • our ability to augment our financial, administrative and other operating systems to accommodate the growth of our business.. Due to any of the above risks, we cannot assure you that (i) we will be able to successfully identify and acquire additional businesses on acceptable terms or at all, (ii) we will be able to successfully integrate any business we acquire, (iii) we will be able to effectively manage our growth or (iv) any new business that we acquire or enter into will be profitable. Our failure in any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. If our businesses, including businesses we have acquired, do not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $174.2 million of goodwill recorded on our balance sheet. Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We are required to perform goodwill impairment tests at least annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. If we determine that the goodwill has been impaired, we would be required to write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. Such write-downs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. As of December 31, 2017, we had $404.1 million aggregate amount of intangible assets, excluding goodwill, recorded on our balance sheet. Intangible assets represent the amount of fair value assigned to certain assets when we acquire a subsidiary or a book of business. Intangible assets are classified as having either a finite or an indefinite life. We test the recoverability of our. 23. intangible assets at least annually. We test the recoverability of finite life intangibles whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a finite life intangible may not be recoverable. We recognize an impairment if the carrying value of an intangible asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value, in which circumstances we must write down the intangible asset by the amount of the impairment with a corresponding charge to net income. We own two management companies that are attorneys-in-fact for two reciprocal exchanges. If the reciprocal business does not perform well or the reciprocal exchanges are downgraded, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our intangible assets. Such write downs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. Our relationship with AmTrust and its subsidiaries may present, and make us vulnerable to, difficult conflicts of interest, related party transactions, business opportunity issues and legal challenges.. AmTrust is a publicly-traded insurance holding company controlled by Leah Karfunkel, George Karfunkel and Barry Zyskind. Because Leah Karfunkel beneficially owns 41.8% of our outstanding shares of common stock, AmTrust is a related party.. We are party to arrangements with AmTrust and its affiliates, including, among others, an asset management agreement pursuant to which a subsidiary of AmTrust provides investment management services to us; an asset purchase agreement pursuant to which AmTrust sold to us and our affiliates our policy administration system; a consulting and marketing agreement pursuant to which a subsidiary of AmTrust provides certain consulting and marketing services to promote our captive insurance program; joint investments in entities owning life settlement contracts; joint investments in entities owning office buildings in Ohio, Texas and Illinois; and aircraft timeshare agreements with a subsidiary of AmTrust. Conflicts of interest could arise with respect to any of our contractual arrangements with AmTrust and its affiliates, as well as any other business opportunities that could be advantageous to AmTrust or its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and disadvantageous to us or our subsidiaries, on the other hand. AmTrust's interests may be different from the interests of our company and the interests of our other stockholders.. Our relationship with ACP Re and ACP Re Holdings, LLC may present, and make us vulnerable to, difficult conflicts of interest, related party transactions, business opportunity issues and legal challenges.. ACP Re is a Bermuda reinsurer that is a subsidiary of the Karfunkel Family Trust. We provide management services to ACP Re pursuant to a services agreement we entered into in 2012. We and AmTrust provided ACP Re with financing in an aggregate amount of up to $250.0 million ($125.0 million each), and in July 2016, ACP Re Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company owned by the Karfunkel Family Trust (\"ACP Re Holdings\"), became the borrower in the place of ACP Re. Conflicts of interest could arise with respect to any of the contractual arrangements between us and ACP Re, as well as business opportunities that could be advantageous to ACP Re, on the one hand, and disadvantageous to us or our subsidiaries, on the other hand. There can be no assurance that ACP Re Holdings will have sufficient assets or liquidity to pay its obligations under the terms of the financing. ACP Re Holdings may need to liquidate assets to fulfill these obligations. The majority of ACP Re Holdings' assets currently consist of publicly traded equity securities. As a result of the financing, we, through our subsidiary, have significant credit exposure to ACP Re Holdings.. A downgrade in the A.M. Best rating of our insurance subsidiaries would likely reduce the amount of business we are able to write and could materially adversely impact the competitive positions of our insurance subsidiaries.. Rating agencies evaluate insurance companies based on their ability to pay claims. A.M. Best has currently assigned our insurance subsidiaries that are part of our intercompany quota share agreement to Integon National, a group rating of \"A-\" (Excellent). The ratings of A.M. Best are subject to periodic review using, among other things, proprietary capital adequacy models, and are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time. Our competitive position relative to other companies is determined in part by the A.M. Best rating of our insurance subsidiaries. A.M. Best ratings are directed toward the concerns of policyholders and insurance agencies and are not intended for the protection of investors or as a recommendation to buy, hold or sell securities.. There can be no assurances that our insurance subsidiaries will be able to maintain their current ratings. Any downgrade in ratings would likely adversely affect our business through the loss of certain existing and potential policyholders and the loss of relationships with independent agencies that might move to other companies with higher ratings. We are not able to quantify the percentage of our business, in terms of premiums or otherwise, that would be affected by a downgrade in our A.M. Best ratings.. 24. Performance of our investment portfolio is subject to a variety of investment risks that may adversely affect our financial results.. Our results are affected, in part, by the performance of our investment portfolio. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive investments, such as fixed-income securities. As of December 31, 2017, our investment in fixed-income securities was approximately $3,139.9 million, or 86.0% of our total investment portfolio. Increases in market interest rates may have an adverse impact on the value of our investment portfolio by decreasing the value of fixed-income securities. Conversely, declining market interest rates could have an adverse impact on our investment income as we invest positive cash flows from operations and as we reinvest proceeds from maturing and called investments in new investments that could yield lower rates than our investments have historically generated. Defaults in our investment portfolio may produce operating losses and adversely impact our results of operations.. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to manage interest rate sensitivity effectively. Despite our efforts to maintain a high quality portfolio and manage the duration of the portfolio to reduce the effect of interest rate changes, a significant change in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.. In addition, the performance of our investment portfolio generally is subject to other risks, including the following:. • the risk of decrease in value due to a deterioration in the financial condition, operating performance or business prospects of one or more issuers of our fixed-income securities;. • the risk that our portfolio may be too heavily concentrated in the securities of one or more issuers, sectors or industries;. • the risk that we will not be able to convert investment securities into cash on favorable terms and on a timely basis; and. • general movements in the values of securities markets.. If our investment portfolio were to suffer a substantial decrease in value due to market, sector or issuer-specific conditions, our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. A decrease in value of an insurance subsidiary's investment portfolio could also put the subsidiary at risk of failing to satisfy regulatory minimum capital requirements and could limit the subsidiary's ability to write new business.. Our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints, including adverse business performance, could affect our ability to satisfy our obligations.. We are a holding company and conduct our business operations through our various subsidiaries. Our principal sources of funds are dividends and other payments from our insurance subsidiaries, income from our investment portfolio and funds that may be raised from time to time in the capital markets. We will be largely dependent on amounts from our insurance subsidiaries to pay principal and interest on any indebtedness that we may incur, to pay holding company operating expenses, to make capital investments in our other subsidiaries and to pay dividends on our common stock. In addition, our credit agreement contains covenants that limit our ability to pay cash dividends to our stockholders under certain circumstances. See \"-The covenants in our credit agreement limit our financial and operational flexibility, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.\". Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to statutory and regulatory restrictions imposed on insurance companies by their states of domicile, which limit the amount of cash dividends or distributions that they may pay to us unless special permission is received from the insurance regulator of the relevant domiciliary state. In general, the maximum amount of dividends that the insurance subsidiaries may pay in any 12-month period without regulatory approval is the greater of adjusted statutory net income or 10% of statutory policyholders' surplus as of the preceding calendar year end. Adjusted statutory net income is generally defined for this purpose to be statutory net income, net of realized capital gains, for the calendar year preceding the date of the dividend. In addition, other states may limit or restrict our insurance subsidiaries' ability to pay stockholder dividends generally or as a condition to issuance of a certificate of authority. The aggregate amount of cash dividends and distributions that could be paid by our insurance subsidiaries without prior approval by the various domiciliary states of our insurance subsidiaries was approximately $387.6 million as of December 31, 2017, taking into account dividends paid in the prior twelve month period.. 25. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements. Our failure to meet these requirements could subject us to regulatory action.. The laws of the states of domicile of our insurance subsidiaries impose risk-based capital standards and other minimum capital and surplus requirements. Failure to meet applicable risk-based capital requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements could subject us to further examination or corrective action imposed by state regulators, including limitations on our writing of additional business, state supervision or liquidation. Any changes in existing risk-based capital requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements may require us to increase our statutory capital levels, which we may be unable to do. See Item 1, \"Business - Regulation - State Insurance Regulation - Financial Oversight-Risk-Based Capital Regulations.\". The insurance industry is subject to extensive regulation, which may affect our ability to execute our business plan and grow our business.. We are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by government agencies in each of the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled or commercially domiciled, as well as all states in which they are licensed, sell insurance products, issue policies, or handle claims. Some states impose restrictions or require prior regulatory approval of specific corporate actions, which may adversely affect our ability to operate, innovate, obtain necessary rate adjustments in a timely manner or grow our business profitably. These regulations provide safeguards for policyholders and are not intended to protect the interests of stockholders. Our ability to comply with these laws and regulations, and to obtain necessary regulatory action in a timely manner is, and will continue to be, critical to our success. Some of these regulations include:. • Required Licensing. We operate under licenses issued by the insurance department in the states in which we sell insurance. If a regulatory authority denies or delays granting a new license, our ability to enter that market quickly or offer new insurance products in that market may be substantially impaired. In addition, if the insurance department in any state in which we currently operate suspends, non-renews, or revokes an existing license, we would not be able to offer affected products in that state.. • Transactions Between Insurance Companies and Their Affiliates. Transactions between us or other of our affiliates and our insurance companies generally must be disclosed, and prior approval is required before any material or extraordinary transaction may be consummated. Approval may be refused or the time required to obtain approval may delay some transactions, which may adversely affect our ability to innovate or operate efficiently.. • Regulation of Insurance Rates and Approval of Policy Forms. The insurance laws of most states in which we conduct business require insurance companies to file insurance rate schedules and insurance policy forms for review and approval. If, as permitted in some states, we begin using new rates before they are approved, we may be required to issue refunds or credits to the policyholders if the new rates are ultimately deemed excessive or unfair and disapproved by the applicable insurance department. In other states, prior approval of rate changes is required and there may be long delays in the approval process or the rates may not be approved. Accordingly, our ability to respond to market developments or increased costs in that state could be adversely affected.. • Restrictions on Cancellation, Non-Renewal or Withdrawal. Many of the states in which we operate have laws and regulations that limit our ability to exit a market. For example, some states limit a private passenger auto insurer's ability to cancel and refuse to renew policies and some prohibit insurers from withdrawing one or more lines of insurance business from the state unless prior approval is received. In some states, these regulations extend to significant reductions in the amount of insurance written, not just to a complete withdrawal. Laws and regulations that limit our ability to cancel and refuse to renew policies in some states or locations and that subject withdrawal plans to prior approval requirements may restrict our ability to exit unprofitable markets, which may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.. • Lender-placed insurance products. State departments of insurance and regulatory authorities may choose to review the appropriateness of our premium rates for our lender-placed insurance products. If the reviews by state departments of insurance lead to significant decreases in premium rates for our lender-placed insurance products, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected.. • Other Regulations. We must also comply with regulations involving, among other matters:. • the use of non-public consumer information and related privacy issues;. • the use of credit history in underwriting and rating policies;. • limitations on the ability to charge policy fees;. • limitations on types and amounts of investments;. • restrictions on the payment of dividends by our insurance subsidiaries;. 26. • the acquisition or disposition of an insurance company or of any company controlling an insurance company;. • involuntary assignments of high-risk policies, participation in reinsurance facilities and underwriting associations, assessments and other governmental charges;. • reporting with respect to financial condition; and. • periodic financial and market conduct examinations performed by state insurance department examiners.. The failure to comply with these laws and regulations may also result in regulatory actions, fines and penalties, and in extreme cases, revocation of our ability to do business in a particular jurisdiction. In the past we have been fined by state insurance departments for failing to comply with certain laws and regulations. In addition, we may face individual and class action lawsuits by insured and other parties for alleged violations of certain of these laws or regulations.. Our failure to accurately and timely pay claims could adversely affect our business, financial results and liquidity.. We must accurately and timely evaluate and pay claims that are made under our policies. Many factors affect our ability to pay claims accurately and timely, including the training and experience of our claims representatives, our claims organization's culture and the effectiveness of our management, our ability to develop or select and implement appropriate procedures and systems to support our claims functions and other factors. Our failure to pay claims accurately and timely could lead to material litigation, undermine our reputation in the marketplace and materially adversely affect our financial results and liquidity.. In addition, if we do not train new claims employees effectively or lose a significant number of experienced claims employees, our claims department's ability to handle an increasing workload could be adversely affected. In addition to potentially requiring that growth be slowed in the affected markets, our business could suffer from decreased quality of claims work which, in turn, could lower our operating margins.. Regulation may become more extensive in the future, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time-consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations.. In the future, states may make existing insurance laws and regulation more restrictive or enact new restrictive laws. In such event, we may seek to reduce our business in, or withdraw entirely from, these states. Additionally, from time to time, the United States Congress and certain federal agencies investigate the current condition of the insurance industry to determine whether federal regulation is necessary. Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the P&C insurance business. However, The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (\"Dodd-Frank Act\") established a Federal Insurance Office (\"FIO\") within the Department of the Treasury. The duties of the FIO include studying and reporting on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States considering the ability of any federal regulation or a federal regulator to \"provide robust consumer protection for policyholders\" as well as \"the potential consequences of subjecting insurers to a federal resolution authority.\" In 2013, the FIO issued a report on proposals to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States. We cannot predict whether any of these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, these proposals or, if enacted, these laws may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1, \"Business - Regulation.\". On December 22, 2017, \"H.R.1\", also known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the \"TCJA\") was signed into law. The TCJA reduces the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018, which the Company expects will impact the Company's future effective tax rate and after-tax earnings in the United States. The Company may also be affected by certain other aspects of the TCJA, including, without limitation, provisions regarding the one-time transition tax on undistributed foreign earnings and profits, limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive compensation and deductibility of capital expenditures. We are currently evaluating the effects of the TCJA and the full impact it will have on our consolidated financial statements, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, in the absence of guidance on various uncertainties in the application of certain provisions of the TCJA, we will use what we believe are reasonable interpretations in applying the TCJA, but it is possible that the IRS could take positions that differ from our interpretations which could materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.. 27. Reform of the health insurance industry could materially reduce the profitability of our A&H segment.. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (\"PPACA\") was signed into law in 2010, and throughout 2017, there were several judicial and congressional challenges and proposed amendments to PPACA. We expect there may be additional challenges and amendments in the future. Due to the complexity and continued uncertainty surrounding healthcare legislation, the impact from the PPACA or any amendments to the PPACA remains difficult to predict and could significantly affect the health insurance industry. We continue to review our product offerings and make changes to adapt to the current environment and the opportunities presented. However, we could be adversely affected if our plans for operating in the current environment are unsuccessful or if there is less demand than we expect for our A&H products.. If we are unable to adapt our A&H business to current and/or future requirements of PPACA, or if significant uncertainty continues with respect to implementation of PPACA or other healthcare reform legislation, our A&H business could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, should Congress extend the scope of or repeal parts of or all of PPACA, such a development could have a material adverse effect on our A&H business. For more information on PPACA and its impact on our A&H segment, see Item 1, \"Business - A&H Segment.\". Assessments and other surcharges for guaranty funds, second-injury funds, catastrophe funds, and other mandatory pooling arrangements for insurers may reduce our profitability.. Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in their state to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some insured parties as the result of impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These losses are funded by assessments that are levied by state guaranty associations, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurance companies in the state based on their proportionate share of premiums written in the lines of business in which the impaired or insolvent insurance companies are engaged. The assessments levied on us may increase as we increase our written premium. In addition, as a condition to the ability to conduct business in various states, our insurance subsidiaries must participate in mandatory property and casualty shared market mechanisms or pooling arrangements, which provide various types of insurance coverage to individuals or entities that otherwise are unable to purchase that coverage from private insurers. The effect of these assessments and mandatory shared-market mechanisms or changes in them could reduce our profitability in any given period or limit our ability to grow our business.. We will require additional capital in the future and such additional capital may not be available to us, or may only be available to us on unfavorable terms.. To support our current and future policy writings or potential acquisitions, we may raise substantial additional capital using a combination of debt and equity. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. To the extent that the funds generated by our ongoing operations and initial capitalization are insufficient to fund future operating requirements, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. We cannot be sure that we will be able to raise equity or debt financing on terms favorable to us and our stockholders and in the amounts that we require, or at all. If we cannot obtain adequate capital, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Issuances of stock may result in dilution of our existing stockholders or a decrease in the per share price of our common stock.. In addition, the terms of a capital raising transaction could require us to agree to stringent financial and operating covenants and to grant security interests on our assets to lenders or holders of our debt securities that could limit our flexibility in operating our business or our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and could make it more difficult for us to obtain capital in the future.. 28. The covenants in our credit agreement limit our financial and operational flexibility, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.. Our credit agreement contains covenants that limit our ability, among other things, to borrow money, sell assets, merge or consolidate and make particular types of investments or other restricted payments, including the payment of cash dividends if an event of default has occurred and is continuing or if we are out of compliance with our financial covenants. These covenants could restrict our ability to achieve our business objectives, and therefore, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, this agreement also requires us to maintain specific financial ratios. If we fail to comply with these covenants or meet these financial ratios, the lenders under our credit agreement could declare a default and demand immediate repayment of all amounts owed to them, cancel their commitments to lend and/or issue letters of credit, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and business in general.. Our operations and business activities outside of the United States are subject to a number of risks, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We currently conduct a limited amount of business outside the United States, primarily in Bermuda, Luxembourg and Sweden. In these jurisdictions, we are subject to a number of significant risks in conducting such business. These risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive government actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. Investments outside the United States also subject us to additional domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws in other countries that prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials. In addition, some countries have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of the local laws. Failure to comply with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally.. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the \"FASB\") or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements.. Our financial statements are subject to the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the FASB. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our reports filed with the SEC. See Note 2, \"Significant Accounting Policies,\" in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. An assessment of proposed standards, including standards on insurance contracts and accounting for financial instruments, is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and official positions of the FASB are determined only after extensive due process and deliberations. Therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. The required adoption of future accounting standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, including on our net income.. Risks Relating to Our Insurance Operations. The insurance industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively against larger companies.. The insurance industry is highly competitive and, except for regulatory considerations, there are relatively few barriers to entry. We compete with both large national insurance providers and smaller regional companies on the basis of price, coverages offered, claims handling, customer service, agent commissions, geographic coverage and financial strength ratings. Some of our competitors have more capital, higher ratings and greater resources than we have, and may offer a broader range of products than we offer.. Many of our competitors invest heavily in advertising and marketing efforts and/or expanding their online service offerings. Many of these competitors have better brand recognition than we have and have a significantly larger market share than we do. As a result, these larger competitors may be better able to offer lower rates to consumers, to withstand larger losses, and to more effectively take advantage of new marketing opportunities. Our ability to compete against these larger competitors depends on our ability to deliver superior service and maintain our relationships with independent agents and affinity groups.. 29. In our lender-placed insurance business, we use a proprietary insurance-tracking system to monitor the clients' mortgage portfolios to verify the existence of insurance on each mortgaged property and identify those that are uninsured. If, in addition to our current competitors, others in this industry develop a competing system or equivalent administering capabilities, this could adversely affect our business and results of operations.. We may undertake strategic marketing and operating initiatives to improve our competitive position and drive growth. If we are unable to successfully implement new strategic initiatives or if our marketing campaigns do not attract new customers, our competitive position may be harmed, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. We write a significant amount of business in the nonstandard auto insurance market, which could make us more susceptible to unfavorable market conditions which have a disproportionate effect on that customer base.. A significant amount of our P&C premium currently is written in the nonstandard auto insurance market. As a result, adverse developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory environment affecting the nonstandard customer base or the nonstandard auto insurance industry in general may have a greater effect on us as compared to a more diversified auto insurance carrier with a larger percentage of its business in other types of auto insurance products. Adverse developments of this type may have a material adverse effect on our business.. We generate significant revenue from service fees generated from our P&C and A&H policyholders, which could be adversely affected by additional insurance or consumer protection regulation.. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we generated $502.9 million in service and fee revenue from our P&C and A&H policyholders, which included origination fees, installment fees relating to installment payment plans, late payment fees, policy cancellation fees and reinstatement fees. The revenue we generate from these service fees could be reduced by changes in consumer protection or insurance regulation that restrict or prohibit our ability to charge these fees. If our ability to charge fees for these services were to be restricted or prohibited, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain rate increases or take other action to offset the lost revenue and the direct and indirect costs associated with providing the services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.. The rates we charge under the policies we write are subject to prior regulatory approval in most of the states in which we operate.. In most of the states in which we operate, we must obtain prior regulatory approval of insurance rates charged to our customers, including any increases in those rates. If we are unable to receive approval for the rate changes we request, or if such approval were delayed, our ability to operate our business in a profitable manner may be limited and our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity may be adversely affected.. The property and casualty insurance industry is cyclical in nature, which may affect our overall financial performance.. Historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance industry has tended to fluctuate in cyclical periods of price competition and excess capacity (known as a soft market) followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity (known as a hard market). The profitability of most property and casualty insurance companies tends to follow this cyclical market pattern. We cannot predict with certainty the timing or duration of changes in the market cycle because the cyclicality is due in large part to the actions of our competitors and general economic factors beyond our control. These cyclical patterns, the actions of our competitors, and general economic factors could cause our revenues and net income to fluctuate, which may adversely affect our business.. Catastrophic losses or the frequency of smaller insured losses may exceed our expectations as well as the limits of our reinsurance, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.. Our P&C insurance business is subject to claims arising from catastrophes, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, windstorms, floods, earthquakes, hailstorms, severe winter weather, and fires, or other events, such as explosions, terrorist attacks, riots, and hazardous material releases. The incidence and severity of such events are inherently unpredictable, and our losses from catastrophes could. 30. be substantial. Our 2017 financial results were significantly impacted by hurricanes, floods and wildfires, and due to the inherent uncertainty of such catastrophes in future periods, any future impact remains difficult to predict.. Longer-term weather trends are changing and new types of catastrophe losses may be developing due to climate change, a phenomenon that may be associated with extreme weather events linked to rising temperatures, including effects on global weather patterns, sea, land and air temperature, sea levels, rain and snow. Climate change could increase the frequency and severity of catastrophe losses we experience in both coastal and non-coastal areas.. In addition, it is possible that we may experience an unusual frequency of smaller losses in a particular period. In either case, the consequences could be substantial volatility in our financial condition or results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and our ability to write new business. Although we believe that our geographic and product mix creates limited exposure to catastrophic events and we attempt to manage our exposure to these types of catastrophic and cumulative losses, including through the use of reinsurance, catastrophic events are inherently unpredictable and the severity or frequency of these types of losses may exceed our expectations as well as the limits of our reinsurance coverage.. We rely on the use of credit scoring in pricing and underwriting our auto insurance policies and any legal or regulatory requirements which restrict our ability to access credit score information could decrease the accuracy of our pricing and underwriting process and thus lower our profitability.. We use credit scoring as a factor in pricing and underwriting decisions where allowed by state law. Consumer groups and regulators have questioned whether the use of credit scoring unfairly discriminates against some groups of people and are calling for laws and regulations to prohibit or restrict the use of credit scoring in underwriting and pricing. Laws or regulations that significantly curtail or regulate the use of credit scoring, if enacted in a large number of states in which we operate, could impact the integrity of our pricing and underwriting process, which could, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and make it harder for us to be profitable over time.. If market conditions cause our reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments.. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase excess of loss catastrophic and casualty reinsurance for protection against catastrophic events and other large losses. We also rely on quota share insurance agreements to cede a portion of the risk on the policies that we write. Market conditions beyond our control, in terms of price and available capacity, may affect the amount of reinsurance we acquire and our profitability.. We may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance arrangements or to obtain other reinsurance in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. Increases in the cost of reinsurance would adversely affect our profitability. In addition, if we are unable to renew our expiring arrangements or to obtain new reinsurance on favorable terms, either our net exposure to risk would increase, which would increase our costs, or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures, we would have to reduce the amount of risk we underwrite, which would reduce our revenues.. We may not be able to recover amounts due from our reinsurers, which would adversely affect our financial condition.. Reinsurance does not discharge our obligations under the insurance policies we write; it merely provides us with a contractual right to seek reimbursement on certain claims. We remain liable to our policyholders even if we are unable to make recoveries that we are entitled to receive under our reinsurance contracts. As a result, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. Losses are recovered from our reinsurers after underlying policy claims are paid. The creditworthiness of our reinsurers may change before we recover amounts to which we are entitled. Therefore, if a reinsurer is unable to meet its obligations to us, we would be responsible for claims and claim settlement expenses for which we would have otherwise received payment from the reinsurer. If we were unable to collect these amounts from our reinsurers, our costs would increase and our financial condition would be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2017, we had an aggregate amount of approximately $1,294.2 million of recoverables from reinsurers.. 31. Our largest reinsurance recoverables are from the NCRF and the MCCA. The NCRF is a non-profit organization established to provide automobile liability reinsurance to those insurance companies that write automobile insurance in North Carolina. The MCCA is a Michigan reinsurance mechanism that covers no-fault first party medical losses of retentions in excess of $0.6 million in 2017. At December 31, 2017, the amount of reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses from the NCRF and the MCCA was approximately $118.7 million and $661.6 million, respectively. If any of our principal reinsurers were unable to meet its obligations to us, our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. For additional information, see Item 7, \"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Reinsurance.\". The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain and negative developments in this area could have an adverse effect on our business.. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until after we have issued insurance policies that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of our liability under an insurance policy may not be known until many years after the policy is issued. For example, medical costs associated with permanent and partial disabilities may increase more rapidly or be higher than we currently expect. Changes of this nature may expose us to higher claims than we anticipated when we wrote the underlying policy. Unexpected increases in our claim costs many years after policies are issued may also result in our inability to recover from certain of our reinsurers the full amount that they would otherwise owe us for such claims costs because certain of the reinsurance agreements covering our business include commutation clauses that permit the reinsurers to terminate their obligations by making a final payment to us based on an estimate of their remaining liabilities. In addition, the potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to deem by statute the existence of a covered occurrence, to extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our business. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could be harmful to our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.. The effects of litigation on our business are uncertain and could have an adverse effect on our business.. Although we are not currently involved in any material litigation with our customers, other members of the insurance industry are the target of class action lawsuits and other types of litigation, some of which involve claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts, and the outcomes of which are unpredictable. This litigation is based on a variety of issues, including insurance and claim settlement practices. We cannot predict with any certainty whether we will be involved in such litigation in the future or what impact such litigation would have on our business.. Changing climate conditions may adversely affect our financial condition or profitability.. There is an emerging scientific consensus that Earth is getting warmer. Climate change, to the extent it produces rising temperatures and changes in weather patterns, may affect the frequency and severity of storms and other weather events, the affordability, availability and underwriting results of homeowners and property insurance, and, if frequency and severity patterns increase, could negatively affect our financial results.. Risks Related to an Investment in our Common Stock. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of factors beyond our control, which may cause volatility in the price of our shares of common stock.. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Market (\"Nasdaq\") under the symbol \"NGHC.\" Our performance, as well as the risks discussed herein, government or regulatory action, tax laws, interest rates and general market conditions could have a significant impact on the future market price of our common stock. The market price for shares of our common stock may be subject to low volume and may be highly volatile and you may not be able to resell your shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid to purchase the shares or at all. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price of our common stock include:. 32. • our operating results in any future quarter not meeting or being anticipated not to meet the expectations of market analysts or investors;. • reductions in our earnings estimates by us or market analysts;. • publication of negative research or other unfavorable publicity or speculation in the press or investment community about our company, related companies or the insurance industry in general;. • rising level of claims costs, changes in the frequency or severity of claims or new types of claims and new or changing judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurance company liability;. • the financial stability of our third-party reinsurers, changes in the level of reinsurance capacity, termination of reinsurance arrangements and changes in our capital capacity;. • increases in interest rates causing investors to demand a higher yield or return on investment than an investment in our common stock may be projected to provide;. • changes in market valuations of other insurance companies;. • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future;. • fluctuations in interest rates or inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment that affect returns on invested assets;. • additions or departures of key personnel;. • reaction to the sale or purchase of company stock by our principal stockholders or our executive officers;. • changes in the economic or regulatory environment in the markets in which we operate;. • changes in law; and. • general market, economic and political conditions.. Our principal stockholder has the ability to significantly impact our business, which may be disadvantageous to other stockholders.. Leah Karfunkel beneficially owns or controls approximately 41.8% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, Mrs. Karfunkel has the ability to significantly impact all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation (other than changes to the rights of the common stock) and bylaws, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. Mrs. Karfunkel may have interests that are different from those of other stockholders.. In addition, members of the Karfunkel family, through entities that they control, have entered into transactions with us and may from time to time in the future enter into other transactions with us. As a result, they may have interests that are different from, or are in addition to, their interests as a stockholder in our company. Such transactions may adversely affect our results or operations or financial condition.. Our officers, directors and principal stockholder could delay or prevent an acquisition or merger of our company even if the transaction would benefit other stockholders. Moreover, this concentration of share ownership makes it difficult for other stockholders to replace directors without the consent of Leah Karfunkel. In addition, this significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the price at which prospective buyers are willing to pay for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with principal stockholders.. In order to comply with the requirements of being a public company we continually enhance certain of our corporate processes, which require significant company resources and management attention.. As a public company with listed equity securities, we need to comply with the laws, regulations and requirements, corporate governance provisions of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and other regulations of the SEC and the requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market. In order to comply with these laws, rules and regulations, we have to continually monitor and enhance certain of our corporate processes, which require us to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. These efforts also require a significant amount of time from our board of directors and management, possibly diverting their attention from the implementation of our business plan and growth strategy.. We have made, and will continue to make, changes to our corporate governance standards, disclosure controls, financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our obligations as a public company. We cannot assure you that the changes we have. 33. made and will continue to make to satisfy our obligations as a public company will be successful, and any failure on our part to do so could subject us to delisting of our common stock, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potential litigation.. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse effect on our stock price.. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC require an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC. If we cannot in the future favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reports may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our common stock prices.. Future sales and issuances of shares of our capital stock may depress our share price.. We may in the future issue our previously authorized and unissued securities. We have an authorized capitalization of 150 million shares of common stock and 10 million shares of preferred stock with such designations, preferences and rights as are contained in our charter or bylaws and as determined by our board of directors. Issuances of stock may result in dilution of our existing stockholders or a decrease in the per share price of our common stock. It is not possible to state the actual effect of the issuance of any shares of our preferred stock on the rights of holders of our common stock until our board of directors determines the specific rights attached to that class or series of preferred stock.. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common stock, or the availability of shares for future sale, will have on the price prospective buyers are willing to pay for our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by us or our principal stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect the price prospective buyers are willing to pay for our common stock and may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares at a time and price that you determine appropriate.. Applicable insurance laws may make it difficult to effect a change of control of our company.. State insurance holding company laws require prior approval by the respective state insurance departments of any change of control of an insurer. \"Control\" is generally defined as the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the company, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise. Control is generally presumed to exist through the direct or indirect ownership of 10% or more of the voting securities of a domestic insurance company or any entity that controls a domestic insurance company. Any person wishing to acquire control of us or of any substantial portion of our outstanding shares would first be required to obtain the approval of the domestic regulators (including those asserting \"commercial domicile\") of our insurance subsidiaries.. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable.. Future issuance of debt or preferred stock, which would rank senior to our common stock upon our liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders, may adversely affect the market value of our common stock.. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by issuing debt or making additional offerings of equity securities, including bank debt, commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes and classes of shares of preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of shares of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market value of our common stock, or both. Future issuances of preferred stock could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that would limit amounts available for distribution to holders of shares of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing. 34. or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of shares of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market value of our common stock and diluting their stockholdings in us.. 35"
