[1] "Item 1A Risk Factors. As a holding company, the Company depends on its operating subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations.. The Company is a holding company with no significant assets other than the stock of its operating subsidiaries. In order to meet its financial needs, the Company relies exclusively on repayments of principal and interest on intercompany loans made by the Company to its operating subsidiaries and income from dividends and other cash flow from the subsidiaries. Such operating subsidiaries may not generate sufficient net income to pay upstream dividends or generate sufficient cash flow to make payments of principal or interest on such intercompany loans.. The Company is dependent on capital and credit markets to successfully execute its business strategies.. The Company relies upon short-term bank borrowings, commercial paper markets and longer-term capital markets to finance capital requirements not satisfied by cash flow from operations. The Company is dependent on these capital sources to provide capital to its subsidiaries to fund operations, acquire, maintain and develop properties, and execute growth strategies. The availability and cost of credit sources may be cyclical and these capital sources may not remain available to the Company. Turmoil in credit markets may make it difficult for the Company to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all for working capital, capital expenditures and other investments, or to refinance maturing debt on favorable terms. These difficulties could adversely affect the Company's growth strategies, operations and financial performance. The Company's ability to borrow under its credit facilities and commercial paper agreements, and its ability to issue long-term debt under its indentures, depend on the Company's compliance with its obligations under the facilities, agreements and indentures.. In addition, the Company's short-term bank loans are in the form of floating rate debt or debt that may have rates fixed for very short periods of time, resulting in exposure to interest rate fluctuations in the absence of interest rate hedging transactions. The cost of long-term debt, the interest rates on the Company's short-term bank loans and the ability of the Company to issue commercial paper are affected by its debt credit ratings published by S&P, Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and Fitch Ratings. A downgrade in the Company's credit ratings could increase borrowing costs, negatively impact the availability of capital from banks, commercial paper purchasers and other sources, and require the Company's subsidiaries to post letters of credit, cash or other assets as collateral with certain counterparties. Additionally, $300 million of the Company's outstanding long-term debt would be subject to an interest rate increase if certain fundamental changes occur that involve a material subsidiary and result in a downgrade of the credit ratings assigned to the notes below investment grade. If the Company is not able to maintain investment-grade credit ratings, it may not be able to access commercial paper markets.. The Company may be adversely affected by economic conditions and their impact on our suppliers and customers.. Periods of slowed economic activity generally result in decreased energy consumption, particularly by industrial and large commercial companies. As a consequence, national or regional recessions or other downturns in economic activity could adversely affect the Company's revenues and cash flows or restrict its future growth. Economic conditions in the Company's utility service territories and energy marketing territories also impact its collections of accounts receivable. All of the Company's segments are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness or performance of key suppliers and customers, many of which may be adversely affected by volatile conditions in the financial markets. These conditions could result in financial instability or other adverse effects at any of our suppliers or customers. For example, counterparties to the Company's commodity hedging arrangements or commodity sales contracts might not be able to perform their obligations under these arrangements or contracts. Customers of the Company's Utility and Energy Marketing segments may have particular trouble paying their bills during periods of declining economic activity or high commodity prices, potentially resulting in increased bad debt expense and reduced earnings. Similarly, if reductions were to occur in funding of the federal Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, bad debt expense could increase and earnings could decrease. In addition, oil and gas exploration and production companies that are customers of the Company's Pipeline and Storage segment may decide not to renew contracts for the same transportation capacity during periods of reduced. -. 12. -. production due to persistent low commodity prices. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The Company's credit ratings may not reflect all the risks of an investment in its securities.. The Company's credit ratings are an independent assessment of its ability to pay its obligations. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in the Company's credit ratings will generally affect the market value of the specific debt instruments that are rated, as well as the market value of the Company's common stock. The Company's credit ratings, however, may not reflect the potential impact on the value of its common stock of risks related to structural, market or other factors discussed in this Form 10-K.. The Company's need to comply with comprehensive, complex, and the sometimes unpredictable enforcement of government regulations may increase its costs and limit its revenue growth, which may result in reduced earnings.. While the Company generally refers to its Utility segment and its Pipeline and Storage segment as its \"regulated segments,\" there are many governmental laws and regulations that have an impact on almost every aspect of the Company's businesses including, but not limited to, tax law and environmental law.  Existing statutes and regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to the Company, such as tax legislation, which may increase the Company's costs or affect its business in ways that the Company cannot predict.  Administrative agencies may apply existing laws and regulations in unanticipated, inconsistent or legally unsupportable ways, making it difficult to develop and complete projects, and harming the economic climate generally.  New York State, for example, under the current executive administration, appears intent on imposing unattainable regulatory standards, at least with respect to certain fossil fuel energy infrastructure projects.. In the Company's Utility segment, the operations of Distribution Corporation are subject to the jurisdiction of the NYPSC, the PaPUC and, with respect to certain transactions, the FERC. The NYPSC and the PaPUC, among other things, approve the rates that Distribution Corporation may charge to its utility customers. Those approved rates also impact the returns that Distribution Corporation may earn on the assets that are dedicated to those operations. If Distribution Corporation is required in a rate proceeding to reduce the rates it charges its utility customers, or to the extent Distribution Corporation is unable to obtain approval for rate increases from these regulators, particularly when necessary to cover increased costs (including costs that may be incurred in connection with governmental investigations or proceedings or mandated infrastructure inspection, maintenance or replacement programs), earnings may decrease.. In addition to their historical methods of utility regulation, both the PaPUC and NYPSC have established competitive markets in which customers may purchase gas commodity from unregulated marketers, in addition to utility companies. Retail competition for gas commodity service does not pose an acute competitive threat for Distribution Corporation because in both jurisdictions it recovers its cost of service through delivery rates and charges, and not through any mark-up on the gas commodity purchased by its customers. Over the longer run, however, rate design changes resulting from customer migration to marketer service (\"unbundling\") can expose utilities such as Distribution Corporation to stranded costs and revenue erosion in the absence of compensating rate relief.. Both the NYPSC and the PaPUC have, from time-to-time, instituted proceedings for the purpose of promoting conservation of energy commodities, including natural gas. In New York, Distribution Corporation implemented a Conservation Incentive Program that promotes conservation and efficient use of natural gas by offering customer rebates for the installation of high-efficiency appliances, among other things. The intent of conservation and efficiency programs is to reduce customer usage of natural gas. Under traditional volumetric rates, reduced usage by customers results in decreased revenues to the Utility. To prevent revenue erosion  caused  by  conservation,  the  NYPSC  approved  a  \"revenue  decoupling  mechanism\"  that  renders  Distribution Corporation's New York division financially indifferent to the effects of conservation. In Pennsylvania, the PaPUC has not directed Distribution Corporation to implement a conservation program. If the NYPSC were to revoke the revenue decoupling mechanism in a future proceeding or the PaPUC were to adopt a conservation program without revenue decoupling mechanism or other changes in rate design, reduced customer usage could decrease revenues, forcing Distribution Corporation to file for rate relief. If Distribution Corporation were unable to obtain adequate rate relief, its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected.. -. 13. -. In New York, aggressive generic statewide programs created under the label of efficiency or conservation continue to generate a sizable utility funding requirement for state agencies that administer those programs. Although utilities are authorized to recover the cost of efficiency and conservation program funding through special rates and surcharges, the resulting upward pressure on customer rates, coupled with increased assessments and taxes, could affect future tolerance for traditional utility rate increases, especially if natural gas commodity costs were to increase.. The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to Supply Corporation, Empire and some transactions performed by other Company subsidiaries, including Seneca, Distribution Corporation and NFR. The FERC, among other things, approves the rates that Supply Corporation and Empire may charge to their natural gas transportation and/or storage customers. Those approved rates also impact the returns that Supply Corporation and Empire may earn on the assets that are dedicated to those operations. Pursuant to the petition of a customer or state commission, or on the FERC's own initiative, the FERC has the authority to investigate whether Supply Corporation's and Empire's rates are still \"just and reasonable\" as required by the NGA, and if not, to adjust those rates prospectively. If Supply Corporation or Empire is required in a rate proceeding to adjust the rates it charges its natural gas transportation and/or storage customers, or if either Supply Corporation or Empire is unable to obtain approval for rate increases, particularly when necessary to cover increased costs, Supply Corporation's or Empire's earnings may decrease. The FERC also possesses significant penalty authority with respect to violations of the laws and regulations it administers. Supply Corporation, Empire and, to the extent subject to FERC jurisdiction, the Company's other subsidiaries are subject to the FERC's penalty authority. In addition, the FERC exercises jurisdiction over the construction and operation of facilities used in interstate gas transmission. Also, decisions of Canadian regulators such as the National Energy Board and the Ontario Energy Board could affect the viability and profitability of Supply Corporation and Empire projects designed to transport gas between Canada and the U.S.. The Company is also subject to the jurisdiction of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA). PHMSA issues regulations and conducts evaluations, among other things, that set safety standards for pipelines and underground storage facilities. Compliance with new legislation could increase costs to the Company. Non-compliance with this legislation could result in civil penalties for pipeline safety violations. If as a result of these or similar new laws or regulations the Company incurs material costs that it is unable to recover fully through rates or otherwise offset, the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected.. In the Company's Exploration and Production segment, various aspects of Seneca's operations are subject to regulation by, among others, the EPA, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the U.S. Forestry Service, the Bureau of Land Management, the PaDEP, the Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural Resources, the Division of Oil, Gas and Geothermal Resources of the California Department of Conservation, the California Department of Fish and Wildlife, and in some areas, locally adopted ordinances. Administrative proceedings or increased regulation by these or other agencies could lead to operational delays or restrictions and increased expense for Seneca.. The nature of the Company's operations presents inherent risks of loss that could adversely affect its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. The Company's operations in its various reporting segments are subject to inherent hazards and risks such as: fires; natural disasters; explosions; geological formations with abnormal pressures; blowouts during well drilling; collapses of wellbore casing or other tubulars; pipeline ruptures; spills; and other hazards and risks that may cause personal injury, death, property damage, environmental damage or business interruption losses. Additionally, the Company's facilities, machinery, and equipment may be subject to sabotage. Any of these events could cause a loss of hydrocarbons, environmental pollution, claims for personal injury, death, property damage or business interruption, or governmental investigations, recommendations, claims, fines or penalties. As protection against operational hazards, the Company maintains insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. In addition, many of the agreements that the Company executes with contractors provide for the division of responsibilities between the contractor and the Company, and the Company seeks to obtain an indemnification from the contractor for certain of these risks. The Company is not always able, however, to secure written agreements with its contractors that contain indemnification, and sometimes the Company is required to indemnify others.. -. 14. -. Insurance or indemnification agreements, when obtained, may not adequately protect the Company against liability from all of the consequences of the hazards described above. The occurrence of an event not fully insured or indemnified against, the imposition of fines, penalties or mandated programs by governmental authorities, the failure of a contractor to meet its indemnification obligations, or the failure of an insurance company to pay valid claims could result in substantial losses to the Company. In addition, insurance may not be available, or if available may not be adequate, to cover any or all of these risks. It is also possible that insurance premiums or other costs may rise significantly in the future, so as to make such insurance prohibitively expensive.. Hazards and risks faced by the Company, and insurance and indemnification obtained or provided by the Company, may subject the Company to litigation or administrative proceedings from time to time. Such litigation or proceedings could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines or penalties against the Company or be resolved on unfavorable terms, the result of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.. Environmental regulation significantly affects the Company's business.. The Company's business operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations concern the generation, storage, transportation, disposal, emission or discharge of pollutants, contaminants, hazardous substances and greenhouse gases into the environment, the reporting of such matters, and the general protection of public health, natural resources, wildlife and the environment. For example, currently applicable environmental laws and regulations restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of materials that can be released into the environment in connection with regulated activities, limit or prohibit activities in certain protected areas, and may require the Company to investigate and/or remediate contamination at certain current and former properties regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the Company's actions or whether such actions were in compliance with applicable laws and regulations at the time they were taken. Moreover, spills or releases of regulated substances or the discovery of currently unknown contamination could expose the Company to material losses, expenditures and environmental, health and safety liabilities. Such liabilities could include penalties, sanctions or claims for damages to persons, property or natural resources brought on behalf of the government or private litigants that could cause the Company to incur substantial costs or uninsured losses.. In addition, the Company must obtain, maintain and comply with numerous permits, leases, approvals, consents and certificates from various governmental authorities before commencing regulated activities. In connection with such activities, the Company may need to make significant capital and operating expenditures to detect, repair and/or control air emissions, to control water discharges or to perform certain corrective actions to meet the conditions of the permits issued pursuant to applicable environmental laws and regulations. Any failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations and the terms and conditions of its environmental permits and authorizations could result in the assessment of significant administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations and corrective actions, the revocation of required permits, or the issuance of injunctions limiting or prohibiting certain of the Company's operations.. Costs of compliance and liabilities could negatively affect the Company's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, compliance with environmental laws and regulations could require unexpected capital expenditures at the Company's facilities, temporarily shut down the Company's facilities or delay or cause the cancellation of expansion projects or oil and natural gas drilling activities. Because the costs of complying with environmental regulations are significant, additional regulation could negatively affect the Company's business. Although the Company cannot predict the impact of the interpretation or enforcement of EPA standards or other federal, state and local laws or regulations, the Company's costs could increase if environmental laws and regulations change.. Legislative and regulatory measures to address climate change and greenhouse gas emissions are in various phases of discussion or implementation. Under the federal Clean Air Act, the EPA requires that new stationary sources of significant greenhouse gas emissions or major modifications of existing facilities obtain permits prior to construction or modification. The EPA previously adopted final regulations that set methane emissions standards for new oil and natural gas emission sources. In addition, the EPA issued draft guidelines for voluntarily reducing emissions from existing equipment and processes in the oil and natural gas industry.  The current U.S. presidential. -. 15. -. administration has issued executive orders to roll back many of these regulations, and, in turn, litigation (not involving the Company) has been instituted to challenge the administration's efforts. The Company must continue to comply with all applicable regulations.  Further, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered bills that would establish a cap-and-trade program to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases.  A number of states have adopted energy strategies or plans with goals that include the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. New York's State Energy Plan, which includes Reforming the Energy Vision (REV) initiatives, sets greenhouse gas emission reduction targets of 40% by 2030 and 80% by 2050.  Additionally, the Plan targets that 50% of electric generation must come from renewable energy sources by 2030. With respect to its operations in California, the Company currently complies with California cap-and-trade guidelines, which increases the Company's cost of environmental compliance in its Exploration and Production segment operations. Legislation or regulation that aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions could also include carbon taxes, restrictive permitting, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates to conserve energy or use renewable energy sources. Federal, state or local governments may, for example, provide tax advantages and other subsidies to support alternative energy sources, mandate the use of specific fuels or technologies, or promote research into new technologies to reduce the cost and increase the scalability of alternative energy sources. These climate change and greenhouse gas initiatives could increase the Company's cost of environmental compliance by requiring the Company to install new equipment to reduce emissions from larger facilities and/or purchase emission allowances.  They could also delay or otherwise negatively affect efforts to obtain permits and other regulatory approvals with regard to existing and new facilities, impose additional monitoring and reporting requirements, and reduce demand for oil and natural gas.. Third parties may attempt to breach the Company's network security, which could disrupt the Company's operations and adversely affect its financial results.. The Company's information technology systems are subject to attempts by others to gain unauthorized access through the Internet, or to otherwise introduce malicious software. These attempts might be the result of industrial or other espionage, or actions by hackers seeking to harm the Company, its services or customers. Attempts to breach the Company's network security may result in disruption of the Company's business operations and services, delays in production, theft of sensitive and valuable data, damage to our physical systems, and reputational harm. Significant expenditures may be required to remedy breaches, including restoration of customer service and enhancement of information technology systems. The Company seeks to prevent, detect and investigate these security incidents, but in some cases the Company might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. The Company has experienced attempts to breach its network security, and although the scope of such incidents is sometimes unknown, they could prove to be material to the Company. These security incidents may have an adverse impact on the Company's operations, earnings and financial condition.. Delays or changes in plans or costs with respect to Company projects, including regulatory delays or denials with respect to necessary approvals, permits or orders, could delay or prevent anticipated project completion and may result in asset write-offs and reduced earnings.. Construction of the Pipeline and Storage segment's planned pipelines and storage facilities, as well as the expansion of existing facilities, is subject to various regulatory, environmental, political, legal, economic and other development risks, including the ability to obtain necessary approvals and permits from regulatory agencies on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, or at all. For example, the Company has in the past encountered, and may in the future encounter, delays or denials by regulatory agencies in connection with certain projects, most significantly the Northern Access 2016 project.  Existing or potential third party opposition, such as opposition from landowner and environmental groups, which are beyond our control, could interfere significantly with or delay the Company's receipt of such approvals or permits, which could materially affect the anticipated construction of a project. In addition, third parties could impede the Gathering segment's acquisition, expansion or renewal of rights-of-way or land rights on a timely basis and on acceptable terms. Any delay in project construction may prevent a planned project from going into service when anticipated, which could cause a delay in the receipt of revenues from those facilities. A significant construction delay in a material project, whatever the cause, or a final judgment denying a necessary permit, may result in asset write-offs and reduced earnings and an inability to complete projects as initially planned, or at all.  These events could have a material adverse impact on anticipated operating results.. -. 16. -. The Company could be adversely affected by the disallowance of purchased gas costs incurred by the Utility segment.. Tariff rate schedules in each of the Utility segment's service territories contain purchased gas adjustment clauses which permit Distribution Corporation to file with state regulators for rate adjustments to recover increases in the cost of purchased gas. Assuming those rate adjustments are granted, increases in the cost of purchased gas have no direct impact on profit margins.  Distribution Corporation is required to file an accounting reconciliation with the regulators in each of the Utility segment's service territories regarding the costs of purchased gas. There is a risk of disallowance of full recovery of these costs if regulators determine that Distribution Corporation was imprudent in making its gas purchases. Any material disallowance of purchased gas costs could have a material adverse effect on cash flow and earnings.. Changes in interest rates may affect the Company's ability to finance capital expenditures and to refinance maturing debt.. The Company's ability to cost-effectively finance capital expenditures and to refinance maturing debt will depend in part upon interest rates. The direction in which interest rates may move is uncertain. Declining interest rates have generally been believed to be favorable to utilities, while rising interest rates are generally believed to be unfavorable, because of the levels of debt that utilities may have outstanding. In addition, the Company's authorized rate of return in its regulated businesses is based upon certain assumptions regarding interest rates. If interest rates are lower than assumed rates, the Company's authorized rate of return could be reduced. If interest rates are higher than assumed rates, the Company's ability to earn its authorized rate of return may be adversely impacted.. Fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect revenues, cash flows and profitability.. Operations in the Company's Exploration and Production segment are materially dependent on prices received for its oil and natural gas production. Both short-term and long-term price trends affect the economics of exploring for, developing, producing, gathering and processing oil and natural gas. Oil and natural gas prices can be volatile and can be affected by: weather conditions, natural disasters, the supply and price of foreign oil and natural gas, the level of consumer product demand, national and worldwide economic conditions, economic disruptions caused by terrorist activities, acts of war or major accidents, political conditions in foreign countries, the price and availability of alternative fuels, the proximity to, and availability of, capacity on transportation facilities, regional levels of supply and demand, energy conservation measures, and government regulations, such as regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and natural gas transportation, royalties, and price controls. The Company sells the oil and natural gas that it produces at a combination of current market prices, indexed prices or through fixed-price contracts. The Company hedges a significant portion of future sales that are based on indexed prices  utilizing the physical sale counter-party or the financial markets. The prices the Company receives depend upon factors beyond the Company's control, including the factors affecting price mentioned above. The Company believes that any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices could restrict its ability to continue the level of exploration and production activity the Company otherwise would pursue, which could have a material adverse effect on its revenues, cash flows and results of operations.. To the extent that the natural gas the Company produces is priced in local markets where production occurs, the price may be affected by local or regional supply and demand factors as well as other local market dynamics such as regional pipeline capacity. Currently, the prices the Company receives for its natural gas production in the local markets where production occurs are generally lower than the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX, that are used for commodity trading purposes. The difference between the benchmark price and the price the Company receives is called a differential. The Company may be unable to accurately predict natural gas differentials, which may widen significantly in the future. Numerous factors may influence local commodity pricing, such as pipeline takeaway capacity and specifications, localized storage capacity, disruptions in the midstream or downstream sectors of the industry, trade restrictions and governmental regulations. Insufficient pipeline or storage capacity, or a lack of demand or surplus of supply in any given operating area may cause the differential to widen in that area compared to other natural gas producing areas. Increases in the differential could lead to production curtailments or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues, cash flows and results of operations.. -. 17. -. In the Company's Pipeline and Storage segment, significant changes in the price differential between equivalent quantities of natural gas at different geographic locations could adversely impact the Company. For example, if the price of natural gas at a particular receipt point on the Company's pipeline system increases relative to the price of natural gas at other locations, then the volume of natural gas received by the Company at the relatively more expensive receipt point may decrease, or the price the Company charges to transport that natural gas may decrease. Changes in price differentials can cause shippers to seek alternative lower priced gas supplies and, consequently, alternative transportation routes. In some cases, shippers may decide not to renew transportation contracts due to changes in price differentials. While much of the impact of lower volumes under existing contracts would be offset by the straight fixed-variable rate design utilized by Supply Corporation and Empire, this rate design does not protect Supply Corporation or Empire where shippers do not contract for expiring capacity at the same quantity and rate. If contract renewals were to decrease, revenues and earnings in the Pipeline and Storage segment may decrease. Significant changes in the price differential between futures contracts for natural gas having different delivery dates could also adversely impact the Company. For example, if the prices of natural gas futures contracts for winter deliveries to locations served by the Pipeline and Storage segment decline relative to the prices of such contracts for summer deliveries (as a result, for instance, of increased production of natural gas within the Pipeline and Storage segment's geographic area or other factors), then demand for the Company's natural gas storage services driven by that price differential could decrease. Such changes in price differential could also affect the Energy Marketing segment's ability to offset its natural gas storage costs through hedging transactions. These changes could adversely affect revenues, cash flows and results of operations.. The Company has significant transactions involving price hedging of its oil and natural gas production as well as its fixed price purchase and sale commitments.. In order to protect itself to some extent against unusual price volatility and to lock in fixed pricing on oil and natural gas production for certain periods of time, the Company's Exploration and Production segment regularly enters into commodity price derivatives contracts (hedging arrangements) with respect to a portion of its expected production. These contracts may at any time cover as much as approximately 80% of the Company's expected energy production during the upcoming 12-month period. These contracts reduce exposure to subsequent price drops but can also limit the Company's ability to benefit from increases in commodity prices. In addition, the Energy Marketing segment enters into certain hedging arrangements, primarily with respect to its fixed price purchase and sales commitments and its gas stored underground.. Under applicable accounting rules currently in effect, the Company's hedging arrangements are subject to quarterly effectiveness tests. Inherent within those effectiveness tests are assumptions concerning the long-term price differential between different types of crude oil, assumptions concerning the difference between published natural gas price indexes established by pipelines into which hedged natural gas production is delivered and the reference price established in the hedging arrangements, assumptions regarding the levels of production that will be achieved and, with regard to fixed price commitments, assumptions regarding the creditworthiness of certain customers and their forecasted consumption of natural gas. Depending on market conditions for natural gas and crude oil and the levels of production actually achieved, it is possible that certain of those assumptions may change in the future, and, depending on the magnitude of any such changes, it is possible that a portion of the Company's hedges may no longer be considered highly effective. In that case, gains or losses from the ineffective derivative financial instruments would be marked-to-market on the income statement without regard to an underlying physical transaction. For example, in the Exploration and Production segment, where the Company uses short positions (i.e. positions that pay off in the event of commodity price decline) to hedge forecasted sales, gains would occur to the extent that natural gas and crude oil hedge prices exceed market prices for the Company's natural gas and crude oil production, and losses would occur to the extent that market prices for the Company's natural gas and crude oil production exceed hedge prices.. Use of energy commodity price hedges also exposes the Company to the risk of non-performance by a contract counterparty. These parties might not be able to perform their obligations under the hedge arrangements. In addition, the Company enters into certain commodity price hedges that are cleared through the NYMEX or ICE by futures commission merchants. Under NYMEX and ICE rules, the Company is required to post collateral in connection with such hedges, with such collateral being held by its futures commission merchants. The Company is exposed to the risk of loss of such collateral from occurrences such as financial failure of its futures commission. -. 18. -. merchants, or misappropriation or mishandling of clients' funds or other similar actions by its futures commission merchants. In addition, the Company is exposed to potential hedging ineffectiveness in the event of a failure by one of its futures commission merchants or contract counterparties.. It is the Company's practice that the use of commodity derivatives contracts comply with various policies in effect in respective business segments. For example, in the Exploration and Production segment, commodity derivatives contracts must be confined to the price hedging of existing and forecast production, and in the Energy Marketing segment, commodity derivatives with respect to fixed price purchase and sales commitments must be matched against commitments reasonably certain to be fulfilled. The Company maintains a system of internal controls to monitor compliance with its policy. However, unauthorized speculative trades, if they were to occur, could expose the Company to substantial losses to cover positions in its derivatives contracts. In addition, in the event the Company's actual production of oil and natural gas falls short of hedged forecast production, the Company may incur substantial losses to cover its hedges.. The Dodd-Frank Act increased federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives markets and certain entities that participate in those markets. The act requires the CFTC, the SEC and various banking regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the act. Although regulators have issued certain regulations, other rules that may be relevant to the Company have yet to be finalized. For purposes of the Dodd-Frank Act, under rules adopted by the SEC and/or CFTC, the Company believes that it qualifies as a non-financial end user of derivatives, that is, as a non-financial entity that uses derivatives to hedge or mitigate commercial risk. Nevertheless, other rules that are being developed could have a significant impact on the Company. For example, the CFTC has imposed numerous registration, swaps documentation, business conduct, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements on swap dealers and major swap participants, which frequently are counterparties to the Company's derivative hedging transactions. Regardless of the final capital and margin rules, concern remains that swap dealers and major swap participants will pass along their increased costs stemming from the final and proposed rules through higher transaction costs and prices or other direct or indirect costs. In addition, while the Company expects to be exempt from the Dodd-Frank Act's requirement that swaps be cleared and traded on exchanges or swap execution facilities, the cost of entering into a non-exchange cleared swap that is available as an exchange cleared swap may be greater. The Dodd-Frank Act may also increase costs for derivative recordkeeping, reporting, position limit compliance, and other compliance; cause parties to materially alter the terms of derivative contracts; cause parties to restructure certain derivative contracts; reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks that the Company encounters or to optimize assets; reduce the Company's ability to monetize or restructure existing derivative contracts; and increase the Company's exposure to less creditworthy counterparties, all of which could increase the Company's business costs.. You should not place undue reliance on reserve information because such information represents estimates.. This Form 10-K contains estimates of the Company's proved oil and natural gas reserves and the future net cash flows from those reserves that were prepared by the Company's petroleum engineers and audited by independent petroleum engineers. Petroleum engineers consider many factors and make assumptions in estimating oil and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows. These factors include: historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; the assumed effect of governmental regulation; and assumptions concerning oil and natural gas prices, production and development costs, severance and excise taxes, and capital expenditures. Lower oil and natural gas prices generally cause estimates of proved reserves to be lower. Estimates of reserves and expected future cash flows prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may differ substantially. Ultimately, actual production, revenues and expenditures relating to the Company's reserves will vary from any estimates, and these variations may be material. Accordingly, the accuracy of the Company's reserve estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment.. If conditions remain constant, then the Company is reasonably certain that its reserve estimates represent economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows. If conditions change in the future, then subsequent reserve estimates may be revised accordingly. You should not assume that the present value of future net cash flows from the Company's proved reserves is the current market value of the Company's estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the Company bases the estimated discounted. -. 19. -. future net cash flows from its proved reserves on a 12-month average of historical prices for oil and natural gas (based on first day of the month prices and adjusted for hedging) and on costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the net present value estimate. Any significant price changes will have a material effect on the present value of the Company's reserves.. Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas and other hydrocarbons that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex. The process involves significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Future economic and operating conditions are uncertain, and changes in those conditions could cause a revision to the Company's reserve estimates in the future. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including historical production from the area compared with production from other comparable producing areas, and the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies. Because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating reserves: the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered, the timing of the recovery of oil and natural gas reserves, the production and operating costs incurred, the amount and timing of future development and abandonment expenditures, and the price received for the production.. The amount and timing of actual future oil and natural gas production and the cost of drilling are difficult to predict and may vary significantly from reserves and production estimates, which may reduce the Company's earnings.. There are many risks in developing oil and natural gas, including numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. The future success of the Company's Exploration and Production segment depends on its ability to develop additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable, and its failure to do so may reduce the Company's earnings. The total and timing of actual future production may vary significantly from reserves and production estimates. The Company's drilling of development wells can involve significant risks, including those related to timing, success rates, and cost overruns, and these risks can be affected by lease and rig availability, geology, and other factors. Drilling for oil and natural gas can be unprofitable, not only from non-productive wells, but from productive wells that do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit. Also, title problems, weather conditions, governmental requirements, including completion of environmental impact analyses and compliance with other environmental laws and regulations, and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment and services can delay drilling operations or result in their cancellation. The cost of drilling, completing, and operating wells is significant and often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive or the Company may not recover all or any portion of its investment. Production can also be delayed or made uneconomic if there is insufficient gathering, processing and transportation capacity available at an economic price to get that production to a location where it can be profitably sold. Without continued successful exploitation or acquisition activities, the Company's reserves and revenues will decline as a result of its current reserves being depleted by production. The Company cannot make assurances that it will be able to find or acquire additional reserves at acceptable costs.. Financial accounting requirements regarding exploration and production activities may affect the Company's profitability.. The Company accounts for its exploration and production activities under the full cost method of accounting. Each quarter, the Company must perform a \"ceiling test\" calculation, comparing the level of its unamortized investment in oil and natural gas properties to the present value of the future net revenue projected to be recovered from those properties according to methods prescribed by the SEC. In determining present value, the Company uses a 12-month historical average price for oil and natural gas (based on first day of the month prices and adjusted for hedging). If, at the end of any quarter, the amount of the unamortized investment exceeds the net present value of the projected future cash flows, such investment may be considered to be \"impaired,\" and the full cost accounting rules require that the investment must be written down to the calculated net present value. Such an instance would require the Company to recognize an immediate expense in that quarter, and its earnings would be reduced. Depending on the magnitude of any decrease in average prices, that charge could be material. For the fiscal year. -. 20. -. ended September 30, 2015, the Company recognized pre-tax impairment charges on its oil and natural gas properties of $1.1 billion. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2016, the Company recognized a pre-tax impairment charge on its oil and natural gas properties of $948.3 million.. Increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including hydraulic fracturing, could adversely impact the Company.. Due to the burgeoning Marcellus Shale natural gas play in the northeast United States, together with the fiscal difficulties faced by state governments in Pennsylvania, various state legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding the exploration and production business have been proposed or adopted. These initiatives include potential new or updated statutes and regulations governing the drilling, casing, cementing, testing, abandonment and monitoring of wells, the protection of water supplies and restrictions on water use and water rights, hydraulic fracturing operations, surface owners' rights and damage compensation, the spacing of wells, use and disposal of potentially hazardous materials, and environmental and safety issues regarding natural gas pipelines. New permitting fees and/or severance taxes for oil and gas production are also possible. Additionally, legislative initiatives in the U.S. Congress and regulatory studies, proceedings or rule-making initiatives at federal, state or local agencies focused on the hydraulic fracturing process and related operations could result in additional permitting, compliance, reporting and disclosure requirements. For example, the EPA has adopted regulations that establish emission performance standards for hydraulic fracturing operations as well as natural gas gathering and transmission operations. Other EPA initiatives could expand water quality and hazardous waste regulation of hydraulic fracturing and related operations. In California, legislation regarding well stimulation, including hydraulic fracturing, has been adopted. The law mandates technical standards for well construction, hydraulic fracturing water management, groundwater monitoring, seismicity monitoring during hydraulic fracturing operations and public disclosure of hydraulic fracturing fluid constituents. Additionally, the California Division of Oil, Gas & Geothermal Resources (DOGGR) adopted regulations intended to bring California's Class II Underground Injection Control (UIC) program into compliance with the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, under which some wells may require an aquifer exemption. DOGGR began reviewing all active UIC projects, regardless of whether an exemption is required. These and any other new state, federal or local legislative or regulatory measures could lead to operational delays or restrictions, increased operating costs, additional regulatory burdens and increased risks of litigation for the Company.. The increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect the Company's results.. The Company's earnings and cash flow may be impacted by the amount of income or expense it expends or records for employee benefit plans. This is particularly true for pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, which are dependent on actual plan asset returns and factors used to determine the value and current costs of plan benefit obligations. In addition, if medical costs rise at a rate faster than the general inflation rate, the Company might not be able to mitigate the rising costs of medical benefits. Increases to the costs of pension, other post-retirement and medical benefits could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial results.. Significant shareholders or potential shareholders may attempt to effect changes at the Company or acquire control over the Company, which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. Shareholders of the Company may from time to time engage in proxy solicitations, advance shareholder proposals or otherwise attempt to effect changes or acquire control over the Company. Campaigns by shareholders to effect changes at publicly traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short-term shareholder value through actions such as financial restructuring, increased debt, special dividends, stock repurchases or sales of assets or the entire company.  Additionally, activist shareholders may submit proposals to promote an environmental, social or governance position. Responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting the Company's operations and diverting the attention of the Company's Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of business strategies. As a result, shareholder campaigns could adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition.. -. 21. -"
