[1] "ITEM 1A.       RISK FACTORS. In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company’s business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties, including risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company, or that the Company currently deems immaterial, may also impair our business and results of operations.. Brand image and consumer preferences. Our beverage portfolio is comprised of a number of unique brands with time-tested reputations and consumer loyalty that have been built over time. Our investments in social media and marketing as well as our strong commitment to product quality are intended to have a favorable impact on brand image and consumer preferences. Unfavorable publicity, or allegations of quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish our reputation and brand image and could cause consumers to choose other products. In addition, if we do not adequately anticipate and react to changing demographics, consumer trends, health concerns and product preferences, our financial results could be adversely affected.. 10. Table of Contents. Competition. The beverage industry is extremely competitive. Our products compete with a broad range of beverage products, most of which are manufactured and distributed by companies with substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources. In order to generate future revenues and profits, we must continue to sell products that appeal to our customers and consumers. Discounting and other actions by our competitors may make it more difficult to sustain revenues and profits.. Customer relationships. Our retail customer base has been consolidating over the last several years resulting in fewer customers with increased purchasing power. This increased purchasing power can limit our ability to increase pricing for our products with certain of our customers. Additionally, e-commerce transactions and value stores are experiencing rapid growth. Our inability to adapt to customer requirements could lead to a loss of business and adversely affect our financial results.. Raw materials and energy. The production of our products is dependent on certain raw materials, including aluminum, resin, corn, linerboard, water and fruit juice. In addition, the production and distribution of our products is dependent on energy sources, including natural gas, fuel and electricity. These items are subject to price volatility caused by numerous factors. Commodity price increases ultimately result in a corresponding increase in the cost of raw materials and energy. We may be limited in our ability to pass these increases on to our customers or may incur a loss in sales volume to the extent price increases are taken. In addition, strikes, weather conditions, governmental controls, tariffs, national emergencies, natural disasters, supply shortages or other events could affect our continued supply and cost of raw materials and energy. If raw materials or energy costs increase, or the availability is limited, our financial results could be adversely affected.. Governmental regulation. Our business and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those governing the production, packaging, quality, labeling and distribution of beverage products. In addition, various governmental agencies have enacted or are considering additional taxes on soft drinks and other sweetened beverages. Changes in existing laws or regulations could require material expenses and negatively affect our financial results through lower sales or higher costs.. Sustained increases in the cost of employee benefits. Our profitability is affected by the cost of medical and retirement benefits provided to employees, including employees covered under collective bargaining agreements and multi-employer pension plans. In recent years, we have experienced increases in these costs as a result of certain factors beyond our control. Although we seek to limit these cost increases, continued upward pressure in these costs could reduce our profitability.. Unfavorable weather conditions. Unfavorable weather conditions could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. Unusually cold or rainy weather may temporarily reduce demand for our products and contribute to lower sales, which could adversely affect our profitability for such periods. Prolonged drought conditions in the geographic regions in which we do business could lead to restrictions on the use of water, which could adversely affect our ability to produce and distribute products.. Dependence on key personnel. Our performance significantly depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and key employees, both individually and as a group, and our ability to retain and motivate them. Our officers and key personnel have many years of experience with us and in our industry and it may be difficult to replace them. If we lose key personnel or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, our operations and ability to manage our business may be adversely affected.. 11. Table of Contents"
